ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u71547	Thank you. We're going to a third debate, a colleague of Pulak on behalf of the Center and GLAS Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u71548	Dear colleagues and colleagues, today I will discuss a very important topic which at this time of the pandemic and the crisis and divisions in society goes under the radar and is very important for the future of this country and it is about the gifted children. It's closing six today. The International Metropolis Olympics, which took place since 6 December, is today expected to produce final results from teams of mathematics, physics and chemistry. We already have results from the competition in information, 2 members of the Zagreb team Dorian Lendvai and Patrik Pavić, graduates from Zagreb XV. High schools in two rounds of competitions have solved their IT assignments 100% and thus gave their maximum to make the team of Zagreb better placed. Our IT team's the strongest competition is teams from Russia and China. Anyway, our boys have first place, we'll see if they share it with anyone. The IT guys were also the first top of the world Olympics to be held this summer and have huge potential. A lot is expected from a team of mathematicians who also make up XV students. Bernard Inkret and Namik Agić High School. Also included in the physics team are the students of XV. The school of Luka Pasek Humerski, Roko Šupe and the chemistry team is composed of two pupils of the Zagreb Natural School of Vladimir Prelog Ana Jurčević and Lorena Komocar. The Metropolis Olympics, usually organised by Moscow, took place online for a second year because of the pandemic and students performed tests and experiments in their schools. For the excellent result of ITs are the most deserved clubs where they have been practicing since childhood, supporting family but above all talent and perseverance of students. It's important to support the school, and here's the XV. Zagreb High School stands out in that. The president of the Information Union, Vlado Landwaj, has been warning for years that the education system does not provide support to talented children and does almost nothing to make use of their potentials. In every generation, there are at least a hundred children like Patrick and Dorian but no one has given them the opportunity to develop their potentials, which is a great damage to them and society as a whole. The rule on elementary education and education of gifted students was passed nearly 30 years ago, and since 1991, there has been a huge shift in research of generosity, a view of generosity, and, above all, in the progress of society. Although the draft new draft regulation has been in the procedure since 2014, it has not been adopted since then. The rule on high school education of gifted students, which has also been used since 1993, has never been lectured, if you look at it on pages, so there are many spelling mistakes, including today. This way I call on Minister Fuchs to accept these children and their leaders who have successfully recognized and worked with talented children for years and who certainly know how to change our system to recognise talents in time and enable them to develop fully. Listen to what they have to say, at least update these regulations that have been in place for 30 years as a first step in changing how to work with gifted students. Science and education are the foundations of every modern society and gifted children's potential to be recognised and encouraged in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u71611	My colleague Kekin, it's not all so gray. Let's move on, now it's time for Comrade Bacic, come on in. [[I've got a break-in on the side.]] HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u71612	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, it's clear to me, Mr. President, that the opposition will use this morning's statement to try to politically harm HDZ, but it's good to see how they speak falsely through their statement. We discussed the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases on Thursday, and this is the third time HS has prescribed measures and sanctions over the past 19 months, both in the manner and in which the Staff and the state bodies are acting in the fight against Covida-19. That's why it sounds a little deplaced to me that the opposition councilmen are complaining about because they're not involved in the fight-fighting activities against Covida-19. So I would say that they did, the opposition MPs were involved for the reasons that they had already had numerous occasions in HS to discuss both amendments to the law and to the protection of the public and the civil protection system law and the numerous reports that were discussed here in HS through other laws. Therefore, they are opposition MPs, they can act as representatives of citizens here in HS, debate and decide. Other times, opposition MPs were contacted immediately after the parliamentary elections when the Prime Minister invited them to the Bane Court to discuss key topics, dialogue on measures and activities and draft laws to be discussed in the parliament. So they were invited to the government, in turn to one they refused to call, they didn't come, and now here they are, complaining, not to say centrifugal, how and how someone didn't involve them in the adoption of essential acts or involvement in the work of the Government or the Staff on the fight against corruption. Against the epidemic. As far as corruption is concerned, I can see that Mrs. Devereaux is gone. Kekin. I'd remind her if we could! Take responsibility for managing the largest unit of local self-government in Croatia, the City of Zagreb and that there is a lot of work ahead of them and that this astonishment of others will not go away and will not go away, and this is increasingly showing citizens in a number of public opinion studies where this gold is available! which was before.../incomprehensible/... local elections quite fell off the leader of the political platform, as well as the work of the current Zagreb authorities. Nothing's been done in six months. These days I read that in the part where it was expected from a platform called the Green-Left Coalition, the Green-Left Block, We can!, where there were numerous environmental activists, as well as leaders and the same political platform, cannot be solved what was expected of them, which is waste management in the City of Zagreb. The city is still where it was, as Milan Bandic left it and will not invite it to skeletons that fall out of Bandic's closet anymore, ma'am. Kekin, she's gone and I'm telling her and we can!, there will be no more such justifications, and on the other hand throw fog when it comes to HDZ's behaviour and conduct, because at the same time HDZ is through the government carrying out numerous activities towards preserving the health of citizens, on the one hand and on the other hand, towards preserving the health of the Croatian economy. Data, primarily macroeconomic data such as GDP growth, such as growth in average salary, pensions, minimum wages, growth in social giving, never a greater number of employees, and never a small number of unemployed, speak of the government not talking, not talking about another, but being fun and engaged, primarily by working on the well-being of Croatian citizens. Therefore, colleagues from the opposition It would be good if you did the same. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] The way you act in the interest [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Bačić.]] The breakthrough of our citizens. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u71641	We are now going to a second debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives Most esteemed colleague Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u71642	Health Minister Beros spoke to reporters yesterday about whether to inject a booster with a dose said he had recently been tested and had an extremely high number of antibodies and a third dose was not recommended. Not getting into this if the third dose should be recommended to him given that he has been over and has already been vaccinated twice, here I'm going to problem the key to what he said, which is that the antibody level is important. It is listed contrary to the official recommendations of the HZZ and to what its experts are saying. So Diana Meyer said that the antibody level is an indication that we have reacted, but which level protects us and which is really effective, you don't know. It's good that people have antibodies, but measuring antibodies before a third dose or any other dose is not necessary. The minister obviously thinks differently, so it is time to ask the question should we measure the level of antibodies and can it and should it affect our COVID certificate or our rights and freedoms that come from it at least now until we finally abolish it? In Switzerland, if an antibody test shows that the person has sufficient antibody levels, a COVID certificate may be obtained for 90 days. The test can be done in certified laboratories which then send the result by email or automatically transfer it to the COVID certificate application. The COVID certificate obtained after the antibody test shall only be valid in Switzerland 90 days after the sample has been taken. The Club of Representatives of Mosta proposes to introduce the same measure in Croatia, so that the antibody test can be made possible if we use COVID certificates and we will strongly advocate that they stop using them and hope that this referendum will collapse, but as long as they are in the course that the antibody test can be used as an argument to obtain all rights. There are several reasons why this is extremely important. The first question is how many states would save if we looked only economically pragmatic if we showed what is certain in part and exactly that a number of state and public officials were protected by antibodies, so now money is being thrown at its re-testing instead of having the right as in Switzerland to obtain a COVID certificate for 90 days. I won't even mention how much easier it would make the lives of Croatian citizens. As many sciences as there are, it's an open question. People's mistrust is heard and one rule applies in Switzerland, with antibody tests sufficient to obtain a COVID certificate and in Croatia we are told that antibody tests are completely irrelevant and that they cannot be used for professional purposes. Who's crazy about that? What country does not know its business or there are different COVID sciences in different EU countries? These are questions to which the waist must answer urgently. Especially given what the Minister of Health said about having an extremely high level of antibodies, why will it not be vaccinated again, which is at all an extremely high antibody for Croatia? Finally, I will look back on what Alemka Markotic said and it was very controversial and it was about the vaccination of children. She said, among other things, that COVID pulls things out but puts some things in order, that now the vaccine is being tested on European, American and other children, not just African and Asian. Not getting into it, I'm going to ask if there's really some stuff COVID puts in order? HZZ 6.12. published a recommendation for voluntary vaccination of children against COVID-19 and said there it strongly recommends vaccination of children belonging to a group of children more permanently located in various forms of collective accommodation with overnight. Translated, children to a home. What does it mean to strongly recommend? How will this recommendation be taken into account? Does this really mean that 5 to 11 years of vaccines will be the first to vaccinate children in a home? Who will decide, and do they have the same right to choose as all the other children who are still going to wake up real, to be vaccinated in a very small number? Who will take responsibility for this because we need to be aware that the vaccination of children, regardless of what they think of it, is really opening up a number of ethical issues and we are not going to allow students to be the first to be hit or in a more unfavourable position to be children in their homes. In front of my eyes at this time of crisis, democracy and human rights have collapsed as we knew it. That's why you all go to the referendum to finally They return the foundations of democracy on which we have built society. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u71643	Thank you. We're going to a third debate, a colleague of Pulak on behalf of the Center and GLAS Club, please. Now we're going to the 6th debate, the House Movement Representatives Club, the esteemed colleague Bartulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u71666	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. We all know that in front of us as representatives with the trust of the Croatian people there is one big and important decision this Wednesday. It will have consequences not only on the protection of the public against infectious diseases, but on the entire Croatian society and its life tissue, in the way of our families' lives, economy, education, the use of medical, judicial and other state services. We are in front of a historic decision by which the Croatian people will remember us either as their representatives or as representatives of some, I would say, of other people's interests. Here I will remind you of something the Croatian public must know. The EU Commission has ordered 4.6 billion doses of vaccines throughout the EU by 2023. So it is no surprise to see this, this amount, why so much is said about vaccination of children. So the motivation of the manufacturer is pretty clear. But it's not clear why the state is conducting this mass campaign of coercion, and even blackmailing these vaccines without openly telling people that they're taking part in a really big experiment that's still in the experiment stage. What's recently been dr. Markotic said about this experiment that it is actually good that now it is not only spent on poor children in Asia, Africa, but also on our children from America to Europe will certainly not calm down, surely not on parents. It's actually a scary statement that she passed I'd say under the radar, but a lot of my parents come to me like I've never had so many calls before. And I've taken time to talk to a number of citizens these days. So they are aware that without impartial and detailed information they cannot make quality decisions. I also let people approach me in an open way, approach St. John's Square. Mark, these were different professions, doctors, medics, engineers, professors, other professions, and academics who expressed their concern. They have the right to be concerned when we look at which, how different opinions are censored on social networks. So we have what's called a factographer, and there's what they'd say are out-of-state people, unknown to the general public, who as a kind of Internet police decide what can and can read on social networks and what not. Where they come from such powers and what is the danger of using that power, I would say great. Then we go to the students, many have reported to me that the public knows a large poll at the level of the university in Zagreb was recently conducted, 16,000 students participated. So over 63% of our students are against the introduction of Covid certificates. Why? Because against discrimination, segregation, they're not allowed to study normally, they have to pay for testing and stuff, they told me that deans are selectively making decisions like they're epidemiologists even though they're not. And the students are explicitly against, expressing their views and still nothing to anyone. So we will either listen to our own voters, our own people, and serve them or to someone else. So, I said, and I'll do it again. EUR 100 billion will be invested in vaccines, so 4.6 billion repeat 4.6 billion doses is approximately 10 doses for each EU population. So I think it's pretty clear how this pandemic can be used for various interests. Someone's in big trouble with all of us, and there can be a big opportunity and the Homeland Movement won't shut up. about that. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u71696	Good morning, esteemed co-worker, 'cause my colleague's gone, so we'll start working. The first is today a respected colleague, Vesna Vucilovic, on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u71697	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS, colleagues and fellow MPs. We'll be at the end of Parliament's work this year. In the first half of 2021, we had optimism over vaccines, crowds when the first distribution started, kidnapping for rescue preparations between EU members, fighting over vaccinations. It's the end of the year, and there's no optimism anymore. It has been shown that the vaccine does not protect the extent to which it has been announced to us. Those who were vaccinated immediately at the beginning now every few months need vaccination, and many do not want to be vaccinated. The second is the pandemic year behind us, there is no permanent solution in sight. For two years older people have not spent time with their loved ones as much as they should, people travel less and socialize. After 2 years of the pandemic, people can no longer enter the public administration’s mail or documents without restrictions, and we know that there is always one paper missing in Croatia and has to be kept in these offices. It's not all Croatian-specific, it's so everywhere, sometimes worse, but it's the state of things you don't need to run from. What is our specifics is that the responsibility for all of this is not to take over the government but to seek and exploit useful idiots from various social spheres, including politics, to spread their ashes and take responsibility for themselves from the ruling ones. Did the ruling one want to involve the opposition in managing this pandemic? No, they're not. If they had, we would have declared a state of emergency and made decisions by a two-thirds majority. Did ruling in any more informal way involve opposition representatives in managing the response to the pandemic? No, they're not. If they did, we'd have regular meetings and the opposition would have even been advisory. Are the main members of the Staff in a row members and supporters of the ruling party? They did. Are local headquarters that have been reporting to us for two years on the situation of coronaryvirus in certain parts of the country, also, to the greatest extent, members of HDZ, the party holding the largest number of units of local and regional self-government? They did. Did the prime minister say a year and a half ago that his government won the Covid-19? Yes, it is. At no time, therefore, no room was left to suspect that anyone other than HDZ was managing the crisis. They boasted of winning the virus, boasted that they had provided enough vaccines, praised themselves for the good tourist season, but when it came to the number of dead, they had nothing to boast about and then tried to blame the opposition they never wanted to include. Now they're asking us to act like sales representatives of pharmaceutical companies. Gentlemen, you have no interest in anything we have to say about this crisis and how it is managed. You didn't care what our voters cared about, the people who chose us at the end of the pandemic in this High House, just as yours chose you. You didn't care about our political opinion, and you asked us to give a medical or pharmaceutical opinion. You applaud those who scream from the pay phone to keep people inoculated. I'm not doing it. I will not appeal to anyone, on your behalf, nor pour my ashes for your mistakes, and in the name of the Club of Croatian Sovereigns, in the name of the club, I will say only one thing here. It's not up to me or anyone here in this high house to sell pharmaceuticals. It is not up to us not to know what kind of people are in good health, we do indiscriminately recommend that they work with their health anything other than what their doctor recommends. The care of personal health is on the individual and his doctor. But the concern of society's health is still on us, which people chose to represent. And I must therefore conclude that I am appalled by the divisions that you impose, by discrimination based on the strange facts and the toxic atmosphere that you create in society. Divide and rule, it's your slogan. But this time the bigger you pass.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u71714	Now we're going to the 7th debate, SDP Representatives' Club, dear colleague Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u71715	I thank you, Mr. President, I hope that I will motivate you, inspire you to some Cold Beer verse when I finish my debate. So, the Republic of Croatia has formed two new institutions in its accession, one is the Committee for Conflict of Interest, and the other is the Commissioner for Information in order to increase the transparency of the work of state bodies and as an anti-corruption measure. The Committee for Conflict of Interest, today we will discuss the law, has sent a proposal to the State Attorney's Office to apply for the protection of legality to the Supreme Court for the decision of the High Administrative Court on Article 6, the principles of action. The state's attorney didn't do it. It's their assessment, we just note that it cares the opposite of the Committee to decide on a conflict of interest, and in favour of politicians, and in this case the most in favour of the government. In another case, the Commissioner for Information made a decision under which the secret loans of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development were made public, that this information should be made public. The HBOR administration complained and the High Administrative Court confirmed the commissioner's decision and secret contracts were to become public. This is what the HBOR administration has addressed to the State Attorney's Office for the Protection of Legality, this time the State's Attorney General again cares about the institution that is fighting corruption, which is against the Commissioners and has sent a request to the Supreme Court for the review of such a decision, but this time the Supreme Court has sided with the Commissioner for Information, the HBOR and the DORH, and for the citizens and the Commissioner for Information and has reached a verdict on the need to be published. And if that were the rest of it, everything would be fine. However, the State Attorney's Office has consistently and permanently applied for the protection of legality regardless of what the Supreme Court has already ruled in the same case. If some of them did, some of their opposite sides in the courtroom would probably protest obstruction, obstruction of the court. But here, the State's Attorney's Office is, therefore, persistently going to the battles it knows will lose because the court has already ruled that. In addition to spending money on Croatian taxpayers, except for not doing their job but for a completely unknown or perhaps known reason they are participating in a joint criminal enterprise with the HBOR administration in the obstruction of justice and obstruction of transparency, then we are fully aware of how it is possible to miss the event as it was in the case of the Kaljac. Because they don't do their job, and when they do, they do it wrong. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the State's Attorney's office has two departments, one is civil, and the other is criminal. What the civil department is doing deserves the attention of the penitentiary department. To see why they are doing this on the other side of the hall, and what happens with 16 requests for review, although the court has already ruled against citizens, against the Commissioner for Information and Anti-Corruption Institutions, which is already a form of the work of the state's attorney's office, requires a modest political call. If we've called the State Attorney to resign because of the case, then we can only call for the HBOR to arrest ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u71716	Comrade Bauk, I will not quote you the lyrics, I will punish you with the most terrible punishment, you will have to pay for my coffee. Now we will listen to the fourth debate on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club, respected colleague Ivana Kekin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u71748	So, it's been barely three weeks since the Software affair, an international ruse in which Prime Minister Gabriela Žalac's main role was played for the EU money, and despite the fact that USCOK and DORH decided to close their eyes, he ended up in Remetinco together with his good friend, Mr. Tomislav Petrice, the head of SAFU and also with Prime Minister Plenkovic. So it's been barely three weeks and here's the news this weekend that another former HDZ minister, Mr. Tolusic, is also being investigated by OLAF for potential malversion of EU funds. Former Minister Tolusic was removed after failing to explain to the curious journalists the origin of his significant assets, he is known as the Croatian with the biggest barbecue in Croatia, but also because he made his own rules of competition for the award of EU funds to which he reported on his departure from politics and to no one's surprise and got it. But on that very day that we learned that former Minister Tolusic was finally under investigation by OLAF, news came that the former Minister of Plenkovic Kustevic was finally charged with malfeasance with land while he was head of the municipality of Nerezic in Brac and to prevent evidence. Namely, in a series of affairs that caused the public to be deeply disgusted, Plenkovic's Minister Kuščević is known for holding a picture of the Ustasha chief on the fireplace while claiming that his grandfather or grandfather is in the picture, he is not sure, suspected of being the head of the municipality of Nerežišće, that he has illegally reached a number of millions. According to media reports at the time, Kuščević obtained the money from land malversions, changes in the spatial plan, bankruptcy and resale of business space. But of course, this is a repeat, just cutting off the most attractive affairs of the new HDZ in three weeks. It seems that this impressive fresco of crime and thieving at the very top of the government would have to shake and embarrass the biggest fathead, but that is not the case. I am President of the Parliament, Mr Jandrokovic, whom we have not yet established whether it is an old or new HDZ, yesterday after the passage of the traditional Bethlehem light into the cathedral, he said that people in Croatia are only being persecuted because they are HDZs. All that was missing was a comparison with the persecution of the early Christians so that we could all collectively drown in the shame that took us over. Also, the prime minister himself explained to him the other day on questions about Minister Tolusic that he was not concerned because he immediately turned on the lights when something was suspicious, the latest prime minister's statement on the trail of January this year, when he also symbolically explained to us that he has a fantastic radar for frames. However, the prime minister has such a good radar for a man who does not like or hear comparisons with an old HDZ we know is convicted of being a criminal organisation. There is no such thing as our prime minister because the radar is not wrong, except in the case of Martina Dalic, former Minister of Plenkovic, who was removed because of the Hotmail affair and the adoption of Lex Agrokor. Radar is working day and night, except in the case of former Plenkovic's Goran Maric, who failed to explain his assets, as also failed to explain former Plenkovic's minister, Kujundzic, who promoted Plenkovic's radar just like former minister Krsticevic. The radar was scheduled in the case of former Minister Barisic, who was on scandalous plagiarism charges and did not work very well when it came to the involvement of the current minister, Coric, in the case of Krs Padjena. When we are aware that I have listed only the highest ministerial functions here and that I have not even touched all others, Žinić, Rimac, Babića, Tušek etc., it is impossible not to ask myself whether the radar for Prime Minister Plenkovic's whereabouts is completely incorrect or if the radar for the frame is just as calibrated? Is it just an incredible series of unfortunate circumstances that the prime minister has experienced, or is it just an authentic and humane policy that the prime minister is leading? Because you see, work for when he is constantly choosing corrupt personnel and Prime Minister Plenkovic is constantly fighting corruption. Perpetum mobiles directed by the old, new and latest HDZ clearly testifys that it is not really recommended to view Croatian political corruption and HDZ as separate phenomena. The only question left for both us and the prime minister is: Who's next?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82031	Nothing, we're moving on. We're done with free speeches, so we're starting the agenda as announced. - Final proposal of the Law to prevent conflicts of interest, second reading, P.Z. No. 225. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution and the Art. in relation to Art. 172. 190. The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. Before I give my word to the respected Justice and Administration Minister Ivan Malenica to further explain that bill, we have several requests for a break. First of all, there's a colleague named Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82032	Thank you. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HSS Club and the RF for 10 minutes to consult on this law that we consider insufficiently elaborated in that segment means that it should be elaborated, which is to prevent conflict of interest. What we colleagues and colleagues are going to talk about now that she's already been processed, let's talk about what's going on right now, right now. So we have a situation, what, start with software, so we've had a situation with a series of software affairs. Nenad Bakic made an offer, a large philanthropist otherwise, and the entrepreneur made an offer where the media wrote about exactly in millimetres of his microbits of tiles that were issued to all schools under the patronage of Minister Divjak, so nothing, but we have it now. I think what to say next about some situations, I don't know, Zulus in Seget in my neighborhood, so everybody knows he was giving chocolates, giving money to people before the elections, so that's a familiar thing, I mean people write it, journalists write it for years. But we now warn of John the Roman who put pressure on his son, the Matt of Rome in the Holy Sunday, warning you of the records of the Holy Sunday where I am mayor warning that some sentences from the record are deleted because this could be understood as corruption and nothing to anyone, nothing. So this law won't solve it because there's no mechanism to examine the origin of the property. We should also pass the Law on the examination of the origin of the property so that we actually come to the process of those who have disproportionate property and their incomes, but none of this will be possible in this law. This is one law that only closes its eyes by expanding these officials and persons to whom this law applies, but none of this law will be.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82033	The apartment is approved. My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82034	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. This morning, on the Committee on the Constitution, we discussed this law, and the chairman of the Committee, the difference between the first and second readings, was narrowed down to the following words. Basically nothing has changed, and that's exactly what nothing has changed. This is no longer the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, this is the law as my colleague Arsen Bauk called it the Law on the Prevention of Commissions for Decision on Conflict of Interest. We've increased the number of taxpayers, and that's good. Now the Committee on Conflict of Interest will deal with more than 7,000 officials. However, what will the commission do? They'll collect their property cards, put on top of them a class, a manual number, and that's it. However, the core work of the commission after this law is passed in this form will no longer be adopted. If we adopt the law the way HDZ proposes it, we no longer fight corruption in Croatia. The law in this form opens the door wide to every official, to every politician that without supervision and without control does what they want and in the spirit of the Plenkovics can do what I want, while ruling will behave and in the future they will be able to make various contracts, they will be able to conclude jobs that will honor themselves and their loved ones, and the only thing they will have to be careful about is not to enter into European funds because OLAF stands there. Dear colleagues and colleagues Combating Corruption [[Intruder: Thank you]] cannot rest on European bodies [[Agreement: Thank you colleague Grbin]] And we're doing it now. [[Agreement: A fellow coat of arms, thank you]] Punish me freely.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82035	So for punishing you, I must warn you because your time is up. Well, it's not about punishing me, it's about keeping things straight. .../Laughter/... Did you hear that? Good thing there's no Maras, I don't know what you've been through with that punishment. Let's move on, now it's time for my colleague, Selak Rasdic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82036	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Bridge Club to warn the prime minister lately, and I can say he's justifiably very nervous. He's so nervous when he's asked a question about the arrest of another former minister of his that he doesn't even want to talk about it anymore, he points us to institutions that don't do their job to talk to them about the conflict of interest and the action of his elected and appointed former ministers. The conflict of interest is an extremely broad concept that covers a lot of things that unfortunately are not being troubled and taken for granted in Croatia. For me, it's a conflict of interest when a prime minister thinks he can call certain doctors chiefs of some clinics to invite opposition deputies to go for a walk which is ethically embarrassing in the departments of intensive care. The prime minister who thinks the phone can affect the work of the hospital is the prime minister who uses his power and influence for purposes he shouldn't have, and that's something that unfortunately became only understandable in our society. There's little that's still a problem. Some of those who did this were, and they were, quite successfully, the Committee for Conflict of Interest. In one orderly state, it may be excessive, in our country where no institution has done its job, it has just become crucial to show immoral actions and trade the influence of our politicians. This legislative proposal puts this committee out of practice, leaves it with the role of administrative management of certain property cards, and that is all. We have a prime minister who won't answer questions, so we don't have any more institutions to call him for. We certainly won't support it, but we think it's this way. clear enough message not only sent to Croatia [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] but also to the European public who laughs at us for it. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82037	Thank you. We're going on a further request, it's a colleague of Bernardic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82038	Dear President of the Parliament. We are looking for a break because between the first and second readings no significant changes to this law have occurred nor have any other questions been answered. Mr. Ministers, this bill does not have the support of either the European GRECO or the world OECD, so this bill is purely cosmetic, it is purely eye-swallowing and it is your task to actually make this commission an entirely impotent and powerless body which unfortunately will not have any ability to make decisions when it comes to conflict of interest. First, you ignored the recommendation of GRECO to prescribe penalties for dishonest politicians. Why don't you want tickets for dishonest politicians? My question to you right now. Secondly, you have not in a broader sense defined related persons such as OECD recommendations such as friendly and private and financial interests that can have a negative impact on officials, so you have not done so, this law does not have that understanding. The third, most important thing that makes it impossible for the Commission to work normally is that this commission cannot ask for documentation from private companies, so it is already disabled at the beginning of the work. That's another thing you didn't do in this law. So, obviously your aim is to marginalize the commission, to push it aside to make it a commission practically without teeth and without influence, a completely powerless body, and thus the government sends a very clear message that the fight against corruption and conflict of interest is not your priority, but it is no wonder that you are shaken every day by a corruption affair and since in the coming year you have separated only the poor 16,000 kunas to fight corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82039	The apartment is approved. Comrade Škoro, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82040	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I am looking for a break on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club for 10 minutes in order to further consult and in some way tell all the public that it is actually a law that is the negation of everything else we have. Yes, and as colleagues also said, the problem in Croatia is corruption, is clientelism, is crime, and on the other hand the impression is that there is not enough action on this issue. The impression is that there are privileged ones, we all know, and we see that the trials take too long, we all know and we see that during the investigations and the proceedings, we leak information, we all know and we see that those who were supposed to be brought to justice know earlier about their arrests and leave the country. And we are impressed by the Croatian Sovereigns' club that this is all expensive in fact for many, especially for us in opposition to one straw that we are now grasping because everything that can't be done by institutions that are in charge of helping fight corruption, to help fight crime will now be done by one president and four members under the law that regulates who are the bonds of this law in the first four articles, and after that all is, in some way, the negation of what such a commission should do. I'll explain more in my speech on behalf of the club what I think about it, but here in this part I'd just say it's one bad law, a bad attempt we can't support.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82041	The apartment is approved. Comrade Katičić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82042	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs. So, on behalf of the HDZ Club, I am asking for a 10-minute recess to further examine the current solutions that the text in question of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest introduces into our legal system. Since then, and even now during the committees on which the law in question has been on the subject, it is clear that the case requires that the current commission be euthanised or passive. I don't think that's true, which mentions the provisions of the article of the current 5 law, and the fact is that the same text so far is only one word changed in that text transposed into the law in question and has now become an article. The sixth law in question. Unfortunately, some of the good things that are introduced in this law in question are not mentioned, and this is, above all, from the procedure of a wide number of officials to be covered by the law in question to a clearer and unmistakable one, which has caused some recommendations in the public opinion of the procedure in which the exemption is sought. I remind all my colleagues here that there are provisions on exemption in every law. In a specific case, obligations under the Administrative Procedure Act have been made, which means that this section will be decided in a legal manner, rather than in application of certain principles. And as is known in legal practice, the principles serve as one of the aids for applying the specific provisions of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82043	Now it's my colleague Raukar Gamulin's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82044	I am looking for a break on behalf of the Green-Left bloc club to warn the Croatian public once again that this law that is before us in the second reading, the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest is one law that will actually strengthen corruption in Croatia. Mr. Minister, you've been deluding the public lately by claiming that GRECO's recommendation is fully respected in this bill. It is simply not true because Greco made a very clear recommendation to strengthen principles, principles meant honesty, transparency, decent performance of duty, to strengthen the possibility of sanctioning. And that's the truth and that's the fact. Missing the possibility of sanctioning, violations in respect of violations of the principle, you are in fact allowing and propagating dishonest, unworthy and non-transparent activities of officials in the Republic of Croatia. And that's a fact. You also failed to inform the Croatian public about the latest recommendations of the GRCO, you did not translate them, you did not publish them. Why? That's my question. Why didn't you do it? The entire debate that was held after, in the first reading in this assembly, no remarks were adopted. Nor has the recommendation been adopted, adopted, the text of the law in the second reading remained the same. Therefore, all responsibility for such a law will nevertheless be borne exclusively and solely by HDZ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82045	The apartment is approved. Now it's time for my colleague Oreshkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82046	Thank you, Chairman. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Centre Party Club and the GLAS party for 10 minutes for further consultations. It is indisputable that HDZ has power in the state right now. It is undeniable that there are also a sufficient number of obedient hands here in the Croatian Parliament, people who do not care about the well-being of the Croatian state and Croatian citizens or think about the damage they do by voting such bad laws. HDZ has no legitimacy for discussion, let alone the adoption of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest or of any other anti-corruption law or of any law which is encroached in the justice system. The very fact that a political party who is legally convicted of corruption is tailoring anti-corruption policy shows us how rotten the state is, how collapsed it is. All that Croatia fought for in the war, you HDZs destroyed and robbed over a period of peace. And how important anti-corruption policy and prevention are examples of all corruption ministers, Andrej Plenkovic, who are now ashamed of the Republic of Croatia in front of Europe. By adopting the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interests as forcefully as against the domestic and international professional public, with opposition to a complete opposition, with the refusal of all suggestions, proposals and amendments, it shows and demonstrates that HDZ was also a party to corrupt, dangerous intentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82047	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a colleague of the Chickens here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82048	President-in-Office of Article 238, representative Oreskovic insults HDZ representatives, and it was himself who violated the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. It clearly states in the law that the chairman of the commission cannot deal with politics. It was she who made her role president dominantly politically prominent, who later tried the presidential election thank God Only 2%. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82049	A colleague of Piletić, absolutely that colleague Oreskovic insulted you, you have been given the opportunity to respond through this breach of the Rules of Procedure, but you have done so in the form of a replica, so you get a reminder. A colleague of Bačić, also a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82050	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague of Oreshković injured Article 238. The Rules of Procedure insults and demeans the members and representatives of the HDZ. Before he speaks of HDZ in this way for his own credibility and credibility to explain to the Croatian public how and how, then, between two and a half thousand law firms in Croatia without a public competition, there was nothing to do with JANAF. Let's explain it first and then let He's holding others... [[Employer: A colleague...]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82051	Comrade Bačić, it's clear that this was a replica too, so you're getting a warning. Comrade Selak Rasudic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82052	The article, yes, Article 228, but it is actually coming to you from the Honorable Chairman. My colleague Bacic spoke calmly for 30 seconds plus 6 longer of his replica, and you finally stopped him. When it comes to the act of the law, when it burns under your heels, such as the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases, you assign me within one violation of Rules of Procedure 2 and take away the word until the end of the debate. I ask you to level your criteria with all MPs and abuse your function as you do again. This is eclantan. an example of double criteria. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82053	Thank you very much, and I've also let you talk all the way now, and let me remind you because very often you manipulate me, I've let other MPs speak for 30 seconds, and then after a while I've told you we won't anymore because there's an abuse of the Rules of Procedure and I'm going to start warning you already during your speech and I've warned you probably 5-6 times, you've consciously gotten into it, I don't know what your reasons were, but here's the thing. Yes, it was, it was so, and besides, there was now one obvious difference of MP Oreskovic was really insulting and she was on the verge of that speech that was hard to accept, so they got a reminder both by fellow Piletic and colleague Bačić, and I will give you a reminder too. Now it's my fellow Bartulica's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82054	Thank you. I'm also looking for a break on behalf of the Homeland Movement Club. I have repeatedly stressed that there is a huge space for abuse of power in Croatia. This law certainly won't change anything. I would like to think that there is no cynicism, but we can see that in these changes there is actually no serious intention or attempt to make things right. However, it should be said once again that we have various forms of conflict of interest, this is not just about officials who are still more under the bat of the media and more and easier to find out in the public some crimes that I hope will be prosecuted. However, we have other forms. I mentioned this phenomenon to you last time that public companies have almost a monopoly position in Croatia are buying a large media space, and leaders are appointed by the government in these companies. Is that a form of conflict of interest in the answer you didn't exactly convince me that you realized to the end what it was about, what the problem was. We have the same in this pandemic case and the appearance of new stars, scientists, doctors who talk about measures and how to fight pandemics, do not speak or publish their relations with the financial or other farm industry. I am pleased that Minister Beroš immediately agreed with me, so the Homeland Movement will find a way to make it possible for the public to know to the end what these relations are in the background because it is a conflict of interest when something is hiding, and the public should know.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82055	Thank you. The apartment is approved. Now we'll really take a break by 10.45, then we'll continue the presentation of Minister Malenica. It's 10.31 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 10:43 A.M.]] Now, on behalf of the promoter, the respected Justice and Administration Minister Ivan Malenica will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82057	The Honorable President of HS, respected MPs, respected MPs. The area of prevention of conflicts of interest is an important part of the fight against corruption, primarily because of the preventive character of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest. The final proposal of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest defines the concept of private interest in accordance with OECD recommendations as the property and non-equity benefit of the debtors and related persons, and also provides that the president and all members of the commission will be legal professions. It is also proposed that the law enters into force the first day after the publication in the National Journal. The new Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest significantly extends the circle of law enforcement officers and the jurisdiction of the Commission itself. Officials of this law shall, among other things, become presidents and members of companies in which the Republic of Croatia is a majority owner, as well as those established by a majority-owned company of the Republic of Croatia. Presidents and members of the company management who are the founders of the municipalities of cities, counties, and those whose founder is a company owned by municipalities, cities and counties. The new bonds also become presidents and members of the management of FINA, HBOR, HAMAG-BICRO, Director of the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje County, Zagreb County, Director of HAVC, Director-General of HRT, Chairman of HACOM Council, Directors of port administrations, Directors of National Parks, Directors of the County Road Administrations, Director of Health Institutions and a number of other new taxpayers. Therefore, the expansion of the bonds extends the competence of the public office commission in which a certain corruption risk has been detected by providing them with quality instruments to prevent and sanction conflicts of interest. The definition of receiving an obligor is expanded in such a way as to prescribe that monetary income is considered to be received on any basis, not just for the conduct of public duty. The definition of the employee's salary remains unchanged. It also extends the definition of a business relationship where, with existing categories, purchases, leases and rents are added. The new obligations of the obligors are also prescribed to regulate private relations in order to prevent conflicts of interest within 60 days of the day of election or appointment of public office, and to declare conflicts of interest, or to prohibit participation in the decision-making process. When it comes to this new institute of declaration of conflict of interest of mandatory laws, it will have to declare the potential of conflict of interest and remove it in order to protect the public interest and exclude itself from making decisions on situations which could constitute a conflict between private relations and public interest. Certain newspapers and property cards are also introduced. So property cards will be submitted once a year until January 30th of the current year. It is also specified that after 12 months of the end of the term of office, the debtor should submit the property card to the Commission within 15 days. New amendments to the law also extends, i.e. this law extends the cooling period in which bonds cannot be appointed to management functions in companies where the body they were working with was in business relationship or controlled. I'm proceedings before the committee are being promoted. The procedure will cover two steps, i.e. the initiation of proceedings and decisions on the existence or absence of conflicts of interest. The commission will have to inform the official of the existence of the application and request its statement within 8 days. Within 30 days, the Commission will decide whether to initiate or not to initiate the procedure, and within 6 months it will decide in the procedure itself. The commission's decision will be subject to administrative dispute before a high administrative court that will decide within 90 days. It is important to stress that this law strengthens penalties for violating the provisions of the law. From now on, the Commission will be able to impose a minimum penalty of £4,000 instead of €2,000, the maximum penalty is still prescribed in the amount of $40,000. The paper is that the commission will be able to give sanctions to a debtor who does not deliver the documents requested. The commission will be able to impose an administrative and monetary penalty in keeping with the principle of proportionality. This provision not only respects GRECO's recommendation but respects one of the fundamental constitutional principles, which is the principle of proportionality. The Commission will be able to impose administrative and monetary sanctions for infringements of the laws relating to concrete infringements, and for the prohibited operation of officials, declaration of conflicts of interest and non-participation in decision making, obligation to submit an property card, receiving gifts contrary to the law, fees of taxpayers who are contrary to the law, carrying out other non-legislative transactions, membership of administrative bodies and supervisory committees against the law, membership and participation of taxpayers in trading societies and business restrictions, the indication of the debtors in the event of discrepancies or no proportion of property. When we're talking about the so-called. the declaratory sanctions for breach of the general principles have never been laid down by this law, but the commission has taken over the practice without legal basis in the law which, ultimately, the competent courts have found illegal. Dear MPs, the respected MPs of this legislative proposal have been revised provisions which were not sufficiently precise in this current law, legal issues have been settled which have not been prescribed and the shortcomings in the law currently in force have been removed. I believe that in today's debate we will focus on being the law itself and on the issues of improving preventive mechanisms and instruments to prevent conflicts of interest. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82058	Ministers will now go along with the replicas. First up is Comrade Nadj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82059	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. When you rejected the opposition's request to sanction a breach of the principle set out in Article 6, you explained, among other things, that the commission was not established to act as an ethical body. As we know in Croatia, there is no ethical code, a unique ethical code, but there is a partial code of judicial ethics, a code of state attorneys and deputy state attorneys, and there is not even an ethical code of parliamentary MPs that the GRCO has repeatedly warned about and is constantly sharing our actual slaps for this reason. Do you even think you should when you think you could bring an ethical code of officials to the Republic of Croatia to actually fill out that legal void. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82060	Thank you very much, distinguished MPs, so this question you asked about him was discussed at the first reading of this law, and then the President of the Croatian Parliament pointed out that there will also be an ethical code or code of conduct for parliamentary representatives, and the Ministry of Justice and Administration is also working on drawing up an ethical code of conduct for officials. Therefore, codes of conduct will be passed, and also through the provisions of this law we are going in this direction to bring codes of conduct or ethical codes to lower levels. So, that the representative bodies of the local self-government unit bring ethical codes so that we are actively working in that part too. So I said the ministry has a task force that prepares the code of conduct, so here's the deal, and that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82061	Second replica, colleague Katičić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82062	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, state secretaries, colleagues and colleagues, and here we are witnessing again and in the debate to impose this issue on the principle, but I would now be going in another direction that is little to do with the Croatian public, it seems to me that in this law in question, all the recent decisions of all the judicial bodies in the Republic of Croatia that give up on this issue are included. That is why, because of the Croatian public and all Croatian officials you can explain again, whether all decisions have been implemented in the proposed text of the law, judicial decisions of the Constitutional Court, administrative courts or whether any recommendations of the independent European body of GRECO which is also mentioned in this text have been included in the text in question so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82063	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82064	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I may have missed the opening point, however, in the drafting of this Law, all the recommendations of GRECO and the reports of the rule of law have been taken into account, given that this Law and the conduct of the Commission itself have been subject to the examination and verification by GRECO and by the EU Commission when it comes to, when a report on the rule of law has been prepared or produced. So this text of the law that is here today in front of you therefore respects all the recommendations of GRECO, all the recommendations of the rule of law report, and also, given that the law currently in force has shown, therefore, the existence of certain legal gaps and shortcomings, so that, when drawing up this law, the practice of the courts in the Republic of Croatia, in particular the Constitutional Court, and also the practice of administrative courts, i.e. the High Administrative Court of the Republic, has been taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82065	My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82066	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleague. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. What the courts have made certain decisions is irrelevant at this point. We are a legislative body, we are passing a law that should be regulated in the way that we, as legislators, want. If the decisions of the courts go in a direction that does not meet the purpose of the law, then it is our obligation as legislator to amend the law and ensure its implementation, and in this particular case, and in this particular case I listened carefully to what you said, you have repeatedly mentioned the preventive character, preventive mechanisms. But let me know, what kind of preventive character it is and what kind of preventive mechanisms to prevent corruption when you take away his strongest, strongest, most powerful authority, which is to fight. against a real conflict of interest. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82067	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82068	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Since we are the same professions, we know in fact that judicial decisions are also the source of the rights that are now actually passed through this text of the law. However, above all, this Law is called the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, so the Commission is also a preventive body that should actually be prevented from a conflict of interest and in this direction, and this Law contains a series of instruments that the Commission can use, and also, which the bonds of this Law can be called upon to avoid situations to avoid conflicts of interest. First of all, it is also a declaration of conflict of interest, but it is also a communication that the obligor may have with the Committee in the case of certain ambiguities to act in specific situations, so that the Commission remains an important and independent body, an anti-corruption mechanism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82069	Now it's time for my colleague, Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82070	Thank you. Well, Minister, this is how you answer us all automatically, I must say, on almost the same question, so can you specifically say, how can a conflict of interest really be prevented by this law? Is there any mechanism you can really say that it can determine, that the Commission can ask the IRS to determine why there is a discrepancy between the property of an official and his income. So that's what we don't have any answers for you here in this law. And the second question, if we have officials, and we have seen that in the case of HERA, one Commissioner in HERA and in the case of the director of HRT where people are clearly in conflict of interest and then give a statement that they are in conflict of interest, is it correct that the law now simply regulates it in a way that you can be in conflict of interest, if you solve it within 60 days after you... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82071	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82072	Thank you, Your Honor. So as I mentioned, there are therefore a number of preventive mechanisms that this Law knows. So, first of all, it is also a declaration of potential conflict of interest, but also the possibility that the obligor of this Act, in the event of doubt, would not come into conflict of interest, can address the Committee itself, so that the Commission as a preventive body certainly has a number of instruments that can prevent conflict of interest. Thus, by virtue of the provisions of this Law, the obligor can be addressed to the Committee itself. So that the function and role of the Commission will certainly be fulfilled, therefore, to prevent, to prevent conflict of interest, and when it comes to it, there are certain sanctions which have been imposed on these amendments to the Law and increased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82073	Comrade Oreshkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82074	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers and others present. So the law currently in force was adopted in 2011 under the pressure of the EU, and since then, the Law and the Commission itself have been a body of impact on the target of corrupt, corrupt and corrupt policies. It began before the first assembly and took office in 2012 when Joseph Leko filed the first constitutional suit against the so-called “So-called People's Republic” in 2012. the strong powers of the Commission and then the institutional work continued during my term of office through the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data which requested that what is important be removed from the public publication of property cards, but no one has managed to make such an attack and such an attack and such destruction of an important anti-corruption institution as you have now done. There's no improvement here. Here, what you have technically added cannot be put in any way in proportion to what you have removed from the law, you have removed the public work of the Commission. That's it. has been the strongest tool so far and [[Intruder: Thank you.]] and the strength of the body's work. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82075	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82076	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So when we talk about the public of work and the new concept of decision-making of the Commission itself, I must point out that the members of the Committee who were members of the working group agreed that this is a proposal from the Commission and I would say, two steps in deciding on a conflict of interest a much better solution and a more transparent one, more clearly than it has been so far. So now we will have one more quality procedure and one more quality procedure that the Commission will, within a relatively short period, since it obliges it to make a decision within that time limit, make decisions on whether or not there is a conflict of interest or a breach of the provisions of this law, so that in the working group in which the members of the commission were members, this current concept provided for by this law is unanimously agreed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82077	Comrade Bauk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82078	Thank you. Just one little comment when you said that court decisions were a source of law. In this case, the mouth is right, but good doesn't matter. So, Mr. Minister, first you managed to enter a conflict with the Committee of Conflict of Interest over this law, then you succeeded in a conflict with the Commissioner for Information because of the Law on the right to access information, so you succeeded in conflicting with the Supreme Court because of these standards. Is there anyone you haven't succeeded in the last conflict with? I mean, it would be good for a minister of the interior to go into conflict with those in his portfolio, but not exactly for the minister of justice. My question is, is it therefore a problem in the independent institutions that you are facing a problem in you or is the problem in the one that gives you orders and whose policy are you implementing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82079	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82080	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So we have a quality legislative proposal here where the commission remains an important anti-corruption body, an independent mechanism. So through a series of changes and improvements in this law, we will certainly contribute to the Commission's doing better work, preventing and preventing a potential conflict of interest, and when it does, and the violations of this law, that it exists, that it has effective tools or sanctions at its disposal, which gives it this law that it can actually sanction the taxpayers themselves. So here you have a quality legal text and I believe that we will achieve a certain agreement to bring it in and that the commission can continue to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82081	Comrade Ahmetovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82082	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in its own name says what its goal is, preventing conflicts of interest. However, this prevention is only possible by preventing, there is no prevention here. You have improved some provisions by sanctions, but you have taken a step back on prevention, not only by this law, but also by the Budget Law where you have made budget planning a non-transparent and potential platform for conflict of interest, which is not a foreign practice of HDZ officials. You're also the promoter of the so-called transparency, I call it false transparency and the spending of public funds modelled by the state treasury, which is all but transparent. You have responded to my remark that you did not follow the recommendation of GRECO, the recommendation does not impose an obligation on the Republic of Croatia to impose sanctions for breach of the principle of art. Five. So you openly admit that you are doing nothing that Europe is forcing you to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82083	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82084	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So I also pointed out that the commission, i.e. the working group and the proposer of this law, the Ministry of Justice and the Administration, took into account all the recommendations of GRECO, all the recommendations resulting from the report on the rule of law, which was actually confirmed at the GRECO plenary session held 10 days ago. So this thesis has been missed that, that all the recommendations have not been followed, so we have a quality legal text that is based on the recommendations of GRECO and the report of the rule of law, so here is the rest of us to vote on it so that the commission can continue working with a better legal basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82085	Now it's time for my colleague, Jaksic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82086	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, therefore, what is visible in these new amendments is that members of the commission so far are limited to being elected twice within the commission and elected twice in general for members of the commission. Is this for some technical reasons, he gave it something that you think will improve the work of the commission itself or is it simply an answer to all those people in the previous committee's meetings to prevent conflicts of interest that are now being punished in some way, given that there have been political considerations and political conflicts with the existing government that we have today in the Republic of Croatia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82087	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82088	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So, it is a restriction that has been agreed on the working group, so for this reason, we have come to the conclusion that two mandates are enough for the members of the commission to act on that duty and accordingly, so that is also put into the legal text.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82089	Now it's time for your colleague, Ursha Raukar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82090	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister, there's only one thing I'm going to focus on right now, is that you refused to enter property cards into the property of adult children and parents. You explained that this is not comparable to this God information that must not be presented in public, and I can only tell you that then that part of the property card does not have to be in public like not all parts, but it can certainly point to possible corrupt activities. We are all witnesses to various fathers, mothers and children, their property, and their going to prison for taking bribes, so I would ask you nicely to explain why you refuse the possibility that the full property of all the debtors is truly true. bring it to the Croatian public? [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82091	Thank you very much. So I think that the applicable law, but also this proposed law in that part of the property card and the debtor's publication of the data is quite sufficient, and it is also in line with the fundamental constitutional principles, so if you want to be specific and with the principle of proportionality and we consider and we also considered the working group that there is no need for it to spread to parents or adult children in that part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82092	Now it's my fellow Mazhar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82093	Thank you very much, President HS. Dear Minister, we have already seen in our first reading that the new law essentially extends and jurisdiction, capacity is strengthened, the whole process is being improved, but between the two readings and therefore you yourself have made further changes above all, perhaps what is important today pointed out so that they go in two directions. One direction you mentioned, so this is related to the recommendations and international standards of GRECO which held its plenary session and I believe when the report is made available to the public that then the entire general public will see that today's statements of the opposition are not standing and that this is essentially just another politicisation and that the legal facts will be quite different. You have also brought the concept of private interest into line with the OECD, so I would like to ask if you can say something concrete about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82094	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82095	Thank you, well-respected representative, so as you pointed out yourself, so from the first reading of this law in HS to the present day, we have also been intensively communicating with the European Commission but also through this plenary session of GRECO which was held so that, as well as certain improvements in this text of the law, you have highlighted this OECD recommendation relating to the private interest, so there it is defined more precisely which means private interest, as any property and non-equity benefit of the related debtors and associated persons. So not only are we through the definitions that are in the opening part of this law, among which are very important and this private interest and connected persons, we have clearly laid the basis for a better decision of the Commission itself to avoid the legal gaps that we had through this current law, which ultimately resulted in certain judicial decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82096	Now she will be replicated by her colleague Antoliæ Vupra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82097	Dear Minister. Prevention is best when the public influences the state and relationship to corruption. That's what we saw from the national level. And now I'm asking you, given that by adopting ethical codes at local levels, ruling as an opportunity, so I'm talking about local levels, it's going to be an opportunity to influence these new ethical courts that are going to judge according to yet and yet passed ethical standards that we're going to make it possible at all to influence local media, through the rulings who pay them, to talk about local environments, to disable them. How. So no one will show someone amongst their own.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82098	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82099	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Therefore, certain measures relating to the local environment are also prescribed through the provisions of this law. First of all, a circle of taxpayers is expanding to a local level, since they are bonds, i.e. since bonds will now be a series of officials acting at local level, above all I think of companies and certain institutions. What is very important is this ethical code of conduct, which will be based on guidelines and instructions at local level, of course respecting the autonomy and independence of local self-government. I believe that this change package will certainly prevent potential behaviours, i.e. potential conflicts of interest that may arise at local level. So this law contains a series of newspapers that are currently referring to the local level so I believe it will get some results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82100	Now they're going to be replicating fellow Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82101	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Here are two things we hear today which means why the question of the public is the action of conflict of interest now in the law as it is, because we know that some, i.e. The former president used very clearly this very public action of conflict of interest to become what she is today, a politician, and in this way in my view killed the perception of independence of this Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, although she does not want to admit it, that is, the fact, in some way, and the other that is constantly passing through, as GRECO said. So you tell us what GRECO said, whether this law really goes counter to what GRECO said or not, and whether it's going to happen again to some disapproval of that GRECO.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82102	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82103	Thank you very much, Your Honor. All the time, the thesis is being made that the ministry, as a legislator, did not adopt one of the main recommendations of GRECO, namely that the principles of Art. 5 should be linked to a specific one, i.e. to a specific sanction. So, it wasn't even a recommendation from GRECO, and it wasn't even fulfilled because it wasn't even a recommendation from GRECO, which could be highlighted by the conclusions of the plenary session, although the report from the GRECO plenary session has not been officially published yet, that the ministry is going in the right direction, to meet all the recommendations of GRECO, so here, these are the conclusions from the GRECO plenary session, which is actually what we've been communicating all along since the beginning, even though some did not want to hear it, that the ministry has actually fulfilled all the recommendations of GRECO and that this law is in line not only with the recommendations of GREC, but also with the report on the rule of law which will ultimately be confirmed not only in the report on the rule of law but also I believe in the GREC report when it is official. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82104	Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82105	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, we've heard the phone book of prevention a hundred times now along with the statements. Simplifiedly, it should look about like this, the president and four members of the commission will be doing moritoring over 7,000 people all the time and then one day we'll send a text message and say, "Stop, you're in a potential conflict of interest, stop." It's prevention. At the same time, you have Art. 19. which is very hypocritical, which says that if you have 5 or more % share in some companies you have to transfer it to some person or body. Why exactly 5%? 5% should be compared to what is the principal, right. So 4% can sometimes be very much, and this body can again work with the state only you have to report yourself to the commission. And after that, the commission says what, stop.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82106	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82107	Thank you, Your Honor, so as you pointed out, the purpose of certain provisions of this law is certainly to prevent conflicts of interest, and that commission has enough instruments, and I believe that even after the entry into force of this law, since the circle is expanding and there is a significant spread of the circle of obligations of this law that its prevention of roles will also be achieved with the education of new obligors so that I believe to avoid the situation. This is the commission here can also praise the last few months where it has actually educated a number of new legislators of this law above all at local level, so that I believe that the commission will do its preventive role to ultimately result in a reduction of the procedures that the Commission will take place in front of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82108	And let's go to the last line, Comrade Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82109	Thank you, Mr. President. The Honorable Minister is neither a violation of the principle of conflict of interest nor any conflict of interest is a crime. If a breach of the principle is a conflict of interest, then it should be punished, and if a conflict of interest is a criminal offence even more rigorously punishable in court. But you know what's bizarre about me and declassified when individual opposition MPs are pushing for conflict of interest to be a conflict of interest with this, a violation of principle will also be a conflict of interest and be prosecuted by the commission. When they find themselves and the commission, according to me against the law that the courts have shown, they find that they have violated the principles, then they appeal to the Administrative Court. So, on the one hand, when they are caught in this violation of the principle, they complain to the court that it was illegal and inappropriate, and here today they say that the same principle should be punished.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82110	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82111	I agree with you, I am sorry that there is no representative Bernardic here with us to hear your presentation that he actually did. So he received a gift, not belonging to a gift of 240,000 kuna, when the commission made a decision then he initiated an administrative dispute, filed a complaint, and then this one was decided by the Administrative Court as he had decided, and this same representative here, in a completely different way, shows now the Commission itself, the principles and everything else. So it's more than hypocritical of the MP himself, but here I believe that now this new law that has filled out certain legal gaps that have been shown in practice will be quality and will allow the Commission to realize its role as why, which it is imagined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82112	I thank the Minister, you can return to your seat, no more replicas. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, then I'm opening a debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of the SDP, a respected colleague of the Pedja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82113	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, conflict of interest words two but it seems to me that few of us know what that really means. The conflict of interest is, for example, when you push your best man, your cousin, into a diplomatic service, and you don't tell anyone and hold your thumbs so that no one will notice. It's just one example of conflict of interest. The conflict of interest is when you push your friend and help him get a job making software, and then if he charges the state five or six times what it really is, then it's no longer just a conflict of interest, then it's a crime. counterpart Bacic said not every conflict of interest is a crime, and it is not, and it is not, but it is often the first step in that direction. Often conflict of interest is something called the lobby of corruption. And we have a fight or we should have a fight to prevent this conflict of interest just to prevent it from becoming something worse, something that then has real damage to all citizens and citizens of this country. And what's the damage? Well, it's a shame when you order software, pay it 10 million kuna more than it's worth, in fact, every lip that's paid for it is more than it's worth because that software in the ministry specifically regional development couldn't be used, and then it's funded by taxpayers' money, from the money that came out of the pockets of all citizens and citizens of this country. That's what we have to fight. In our society, we must fight against the use of public funds and the use of rich individuals. And there are certain mechanisms. One of them is education, learning our people from the smallest legs about how harmful corruption is. And it could be done through civic education that the government really wants to implement it and introduce it, but the government doesn't want it. So when the education system doesn't have a role to play in fighting corruption, let's talk about some independent institutions that should take at least one more step in this direction. One thing is information, an information commissioner, you plant his leg there, and you stop him from doing his job, you make his job harder. You're making it hard for him to fight for information on how to run the state, how money is spent to be public. You have an excellent ally in this called the State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia and at the head of him Zlata Hrvoj Šipek. The second body is the Commission's decision-making committee on conflict of interest. Today we will euthanize that commission. We will prevent him from using tools that could be effective in fighting conflicts of interest, and then against corruption. Then we also have the police repression, the state's attorney's office, the judiciary. And we see how much it doesn't work. Today, there is only one thing that matters to our government officials, not to play, not to run, and not to give their paws to European funds because OLAF works there, they are not safe, as long as they do not take money from the eu funds, our top HDZ officials are safe because they know that nothing will happen to them, that no one will pursue them. So HDZ gentlemen just make sure you don't grab the EU funds until then, you're safe. Don't do that then you'll have to be prosecuted and then the Prime Minister and the president of the HDZ will be in a difficult position to defend you. But he will manage as he has done every time so far, and he will find a kind word for you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, what you are doing is not good and will do harm to the state, not to the reputation of the country abroad in the EU, I don't care about that, it will damage our society. Corruption is like spreading cancer, metastasizing, destroying us from the inside, conflict of interest is helping to spread it faster and faster. If we don't fight this conflict of interest, then let's not be surprised when our money's still leaking everywhere. The last affairs that take place in Croatia reminded me of the words of one of our immortal politicians who has some experience with the Committee for Decision on the conflict of interest, and those words were read, and what we said, yes, digitization and what Karamarko announced in his own time, although he couldn't remember the first time, Andrej Plenkovic really came true today. And this digitalization is the area where we see that HDZ has recently been extremely active, Sadac affair Software, Tolusic Omega Software, Luttria, Flexbits etc., etc., etc. The policy announced by Karamarko today comes true in the practice of the government of Andrej Plenović, but unfortunately Tomislav Karamarko has no opportunity to enjoy the fruits of his work. And why is that? Because that's when the Committee for Decision on Conflict of Interest had certain powers and when someone violated the principles provided for by the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest then the Committee for Decision on Conflict of Interest could indeed react and do something and we really need to apologize to Karamark for not living and acting five, six years later because what he did in 2015 and '16, he did in 2021 to 2022, no one could do anything to him. Yeah, there's a newspaper that'd write something about it, but it'd stay on it. It would remain above the disdain of part of the public, and that is it, but he could continue his duty peacefully and he would be the one to introduce digitisation into Croatia. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the minister has talked a lot about preventive character, preventive mechanisms, etc., but neither this preventive character nor these preventive mechanisms are in this law, nor what is in the law we can say are the things that will be tools to fight corruption. You boast that you have increased the scope of law enforcement and increased the number of officials, yes, great, but we who are now listed in the law cannot effectively control it. And what's going to happen? We will only expand the number of those for whom the commission will list their property cards, publish them on the internet, and then if there is a few investigative journalists in Croatia who are ready to roll up their sleeves in it will find something, intervene and react. But that body, the independent body that should be dealt with in most cases won't be able to do anything and these people will see the problem, these people will know that the problem exists, but they won't be allowed to do anything about it. And it's this law and it's the worst in this law. And that's why I call upon you, dear colleagues and colleagues, to support the amendment proposed by colleague Arsen Bauk and to bring the law's name into line with the content of the law and to call this law a committee, a pardon law on the prevention of the Commission's decision on conflict of interest. And if we do not want to be funny, then we from the SDP Club offer other amendments, we offer you an amendment to which we will give the commission powers and which will allow the Commission to do what it was founded for and once again, as it did in 2016 when, in the case of Tomislav Karamark, it was determined that we have a senior state official who violates the law, which violates the principles, which violates the citizens' trust to act then. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have offered you two choices, it is up to you to decide which of them you will accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82114	We're going to another debate, on behalf of the HSS Representatives Club, and the RF will speak to a respected colleague, Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82115	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleagues and colleagues. We do not yet have a quality Law on preventing conflicts of interest for 30 years on our own. Sad, here's sad and bad for the Republic of Croatia and the huge loss that the Republic of Croatia has suffered for it. Unfortunately, neither this bill is going to change anything significant, given that there are a series of affairs, that conflicts of interest are coming down at all levels with this, I think it's trying to iron out a little bit and say, here, to the public, we're changing the Law of Conflict of Interest, now we're going to prevent it, but by what's written in the Law, nothing will be prevented. In addition to extending the circle of bounds of this Law, I see nothing that is positive and that will change anything. It's interesting, let's say, in art. 6 Bonds in the conduct of public duty must act with honor, honesty, conscience, responsibility and impartiality. Here, all these years, we've been testifying that they're not doing exactly what they're doing, and that's unfortunately what it says here. Another thing, Art. 30, the Commission is a permanent independent and independent state body. It is all but independent and independent, we have seen over the past few years that there are still beetles flying through the network legally, and there are tiny flies that catch that net that the law has set up as an obstacle to itself. Here... the representative bodies of the unit of local self-government and regional self-government, that they must make a code of conduct for all members of the representative bodies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, conflict of interest, bribery, corruption and kidnapping is at all levels. I always like to start from my middle. The mayor of one city whose yard, house, offices that work for the city is in conflict of interest, whether he paid for it, did not pay for it, showed... or isn't... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He showed up and he knows it clearly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it still happens that way. I've got a little bit of an influence shop in the Box. You saw the affair of the Eko-Moslavine municipal company whose director was replaced the other day, even though I'm not really ablibating her, she kept quiet for four years while it was okay, but it's not allowed to happen this way. And what happened? The mayor has left HDZ and remains there, except that he is formally not a member of HDZ, he is still a member because he continues to associate with his associates and colleagues as he has hung out. The president of the City Council of HSLS is not the president of the City Council, but remains in all the boards of directors and supervisory committees, a councilman who has his hand in selling his son's employment is today vice-president of the City Council, the Supervisory Board and the Governing Council. Only the director got fired. How can this Law prevent that? Not at all. It's not because other laws don't work for us. Cases in which officials and bonds of this Law do not respect either this Law or the other laws of the Republic of Croatia have been countless in the past 30 years. Countless. In the last meeting of this Parliament, we had a fellow representative who sat here, receiving salary from the Republic of Croatia, and the Republic of Croatia was owed 600 thousand kuna and none of the kunas of his salary were taken away to cover the debt that he owed, but what happened? Croatia's best solution, antiquated. Obsolete. Because a colleague prescribed everything on his wife, children, and everyone he could. So this Law and the amendment to this Law that we are discussing today, normally and the public, listens to our debates, so the public knows clearly and thus talks and comments, for nothing, when nothing changes. The man who put up the pit will still, the man who pitted it, put it in the property card today, and is not in conflict of interest. How are we gonna change that? The HSS has put in the process of taxing illegally acquired assets in the past meeting of HS. You heard right, taxation. So it's not about taking away, because if it's taken away, then it has to be tried and proven, about taxation. Of course, he didn't make it to HS. This law confers powers on the IRS to assess the disproportionateness between income and assets and to tax with a certain percentage a simple solution. There's no trial, very soon things are resolved. If there was such a law in the Republic of Croatia, then these gentlemen who won't even see this Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, then these gentlemen would know that if there was a disproportionateity on their property cards, if they were to meet it normally now and everything was legal, whether it was proportion or disproportionate, then these gentlemen would think and not easily enter into conflict of interest, would not easily create the difference between income and property they have today. We don't have such a law, we won't even have it because if that law had been passed then it would have been worse than the earthquake that hit the Republic of Croatia in the past, i.e. this year. The question of all the questions is when are we going to pass such a law? When are we going to pass such a law? What are we gonna do about this law, this mayor I mentioned? There are countless of them, there are countless of them, regardless of which are political colors. Is it sufficient for him to be no longer a member of the ruling party? Well, it's not. One day he'll be back or feel like that, it's now a modus operandi like that. But if that mayor knew he'd be answering materially, then he'd think about whether he'd get into that conflict of interest or not. This way he just smiles and shakes his hand and doesn't care who he replaced, who he gave to and how he made most of it happen. So it is very clear to all who have been in political life for many years, that after the election, when someone wins the mayor's or mayor's post, or gets the possibility of assembling the Government of the Republic of Croatia, although there is no majority, that he will gain the majority in the way of trade through the influence of interest and conflict of interest. Well, you've all seen it many times, we watch it all the time, and we all close our eyes because that's what they all use. We can't go up or point a finger at just one political option. All policy options are done. The Act on Taxation of illegally acquired property, or of Origin of Assets, call it whatever you want, let it have any name, but it is the only model to prevent this way of working in all levels of government in the Republic of Croatia. Then he won't trade with councilmen, then he won't trade with influence, with jobs, with jobs... So if you're not a member of the ruling party and the HSLS that's with them in the coalition, you can't get a job in Kutina. You can't craft a job in Kutina because they're in public administration and even in some private companies exclusively places for them. For what? It's influence again, it's influence trading again. Because in a private company, you can't get a job in the city unless you hire someone on the list that was brought to you by those who hold the power. I hope that once we have the strength and the power and the wisdom to pass a law that will really punish those who break such laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82116	We are now going to a third debate on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club of Representatives will speak to the esteemed colleague Škoro. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82117	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Bukarica. Well. Our country has the MUP, it has the police, the SOA, the VSOA, the UskoK, the PN-USKOK, the DORH, the judiciary, the judicial police, the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration, the State Audit Office, the military, if you want to eventually soon with a new fleet of aircraft that should have been worth billions of kuna, but in the meantime, they've suddenly collected a few hundred million, some say it'll be worth a few billion, and so on, add me if I missed something, and we're actually saying that nothing really works, but we need a commission that will do all the things that all the employees of all these structural units can't do. So, tens of thousands with badges, with guns, with uniforms, vehicles, equipment, technology, financial means, knowledge, soon and fleet of aircraft, they can't do anything, but something will happen to the president and four members of the commission. They say Winston Churchill once said, "If you don't want to solve a problem, start a commission." Or if you don't want to get rid of something, translated into ours, set up a commission. So the conflict of interest is, they say, much smarter than me, a situation in which the private interest of the public functionholder, therefore their material interest arising from ownership rights or other activities, as well as the profit resulting from it, can be in conflict with the general interest. And a public office person, by his duty, is obliged to protect and promote the general interest, not his own. The assumption of a fair and legal establishment of state authorities is an impartial exercise of public affairs. To this end, various functional organisational measures, which need to ensure fair behaviour of the authorities, are applied. This relates equally to measures to ensure the independent status of the holder of state functions, so their salaries, benefits, bonuses, but also to measures to prevent situations of conflict of interest, therefore this is the conflict of interest. If only the Tax Administration had a quality function, we do not need any other body or commission to verify to anyone, not just the official, what is crucial, the ratio of income and property. That's all. If you've got more than you've earned or earned, you've got an objective problem. They say Al Capone killed a lot of people, but he ended up in prison for tax evasion. It's a historical fact. How is it generally possible for someone, for example, to be obliged to the state of anything? And let alone millions or hundreds of millions of taxes, contributions or anything. How is it possible that someone doesn't pay the state or some administration to city, municipal, rental and concessions? How is it possible for us all to see how from the minister's salary, or the salary of a state-owned company, we can't have so much property, yachts, and every day of God's day to eat in expensive restaurants. We all see it, but they don't see those who are paid to see it. Did it ever happen to you that you didn't pay the loan war? The bank's been calling you on the phone for the next month, and it's sending you a warning. Have you maybe overlooked paying the mobile phone bill? It will come to you or even no warning will come, but the executive procedure will be completed within a few months and will remove you from the months five times the amount. How can a mobile operator, or a bank, and not a state with all its bodies, agencies, administrations, badges, tracker dogs, who can find explosives, and planes? And how are we gonna handle this? By law, by law of all laws, about preventing conflicts of interest. Your Honors Minister, Your Honors Secretary of State, we will not solve anything, we will only further complicate. In Article 2, I will read it in paragraph 1, you say: “In the conduct of public duty, bonds must not put their private interest ahead of public interest. In paragraph 2, you say: "The case of interest exists when the private interests of the obligor are contrary to the public interest, and especially when the private interest of the obligor may affect his impartiality in the exercise of public duty, the potential conflict of interest and the private interest of the debtor who has affected or can be found to have had an effect on his impartiality in the exercise of public duty, on matters of conflict of interest. The potential conflict of interest is the existence of a theoretical possibility of establishing a situation in which a conflict of public and private interest may arise. This conflict of interest is avoided by keeping certain registers and bans, and this is the preventive activity, i.e. the action you keep mentioning. The real conflict of interest, however defined by this law, would be when someone commits an act that in the exercise of public office has wrongly acquired property, but then it is no longer a conflict of interest, and it can no longer be in the jurisdiction of that commission, only someone can record it because everyone else missed it and went under the radar, and then they will prosecute it by official duty, so the commission will report it. So, I don't even have enough time to comment on all of this, but here's an article 19 that I've already told you, so 5% of it is essentially just a billion per billion and 5% to 10 kuna, or it's not the same, because in the end we're putting ourselves in a situation where we're making a law by which someone's going to turn themselves in, and yeah, I had more than five percent, so I passed it on to someone, so if someone does something with the state, I'm going to report it to the commission. It's my responsibility. And then the commission will what? You're looking at me and I can't do anything. Therefore, this law has problems with constitutional and legal personality in the part in which private data protection is guaranteed. We all see that, and we all know that sometimes it can be like a Swedish, like a Swedish criminal table. The law should not share conflict of interest in potential and real. The subject of the law must only be a potential conflict of interest. And I must also say that it seems to me that the commission is not and cannot be objective, because it is chosen by ruling in the Croatian Parliament and it is an undetectable impression that it has the desire to be a quasi court, and for that it is neither competent nor organisationally adequately teamed and not prepared. It should also be said that the legal procedure does not ensure the minimum protection of participants in the procedure. This law is conceptually wrong because it essentially mixes the contents of the Institute's conflict of interest with illegal actions of a partial character whose perpetrators are prosecuted by the judicial authority under official duty. So, you're really chasing grandmothers and frogs. This seems to me like a law which, instead of punishing prisons and confiscation of illegally acquired assets as well as so far, will allow privileged individuals to be absolved from a criminal offence by warning or paying a fee of 3000 kuna. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, we have laws, we have mechanisms, we have institutions that can solve very quickly all the problems that unwittingly try to solve this law, we just need to finally let those people that you and I both know exist, do their jobs, not limit them by force 76, I apologize 77 hands, to sort of limit them and castrate them in their actions because a bunch of applications and all of those other things that point to harmful actions walk from one drawer to another. Besides, I've got something else on my mind because I've got a minute and a half left, so if it didn't go down, it'd be a shame. You were talking about anyone being able to report to the commission some kind of anomaly, and then whoever was reported has the right and obligation to react within eight days. What if someone happens to play, there's time, one of the MPs who doesn't discuss much and doesn't work much, so he goes over every bit? Then each of us every eight days must be manifested at that. Have you predicted perhaps the possibility that you can't even apply indefinitely and so I appeal to this let the IRS do its job you won't need the Committee to prevent conflicts of interest believe me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82118	We are now going to the next debate, the Most Representatives' Club and respected colleague Selak-Raspudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82119	The theme of corruption is the opposition theme. The reason for that is obvious. There is enough meat to expose the bad policy of the ruling majority, but here I must publicly admit that the subject of corruption, unfortunately, is not my favorite subject, and it is not my favorite topic because when we talk about corruption, I feel like we're barking at the moon. There are so many good examples, there are so many irrefutable facts, it's so crystal clear. We even had a verdict that confirmed the state of affairs with HDZ and corruption. And maybe just because it's so clear and so many times we've repeated this topic we're not able to do what's crucial, which is to bring change and to shake the situation in society at all. The subject of corruption for some reason that we all need to expose together is no longer a subject fundamentally touching our society. And that's what worries me the most. More than saying here all the obvious examples of the network of corruption and HDZ are worrying me about the fact that no one else has any significant concern about it anymore. What's going to change? We're all going to analyze all the recent examples here, so we're going to say "Walk," so we're going to say now, "Tolusic," and we're going to ask who's next? Most people will not even click on that article because it has heard it enough times. We're off somewhere. So I will immediately say, if anyone asks me, to use the debate on this law as leverage to analyse the key problem of our society, in terms of conflict of interest. Then I will say that this problem is not the Commission's decision on conflict of interest or the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest which has been made in a poor and unacceptable way. A commission that will no longer be able to use what little tools it has had to change some things in society. Our problem is not to find a conflict of interest and then punish him publicly. Our problem is that this conflict of interest in Croatia is public and generally accepted. So the conflict of interest in Croatia is something normal. No need to ask for an increase, no need to expose it through committees. Unfortunately for us, in most cases, he's self-evident. Here's to mention a few obvious ones. It is normal for us that the prime minister uses his influence to telephone hospitals and regulates who will enter or will not enter a hospital that even members of the nearest family can't, so that they can walk around it like opposition politicians in the exhibition salons so that he shows them what COVID really is. It is normal for us to praise the prime minister and to boast that when deciding on key judges in the country, in the position of the Supreme Judge, he has previously heard from some candidates and discussed whether he will give you or not support. How do we know about these cases? Well, the main person in the country praised us publicly. There. We're here today. And that's why all our talk about corruption makes a little sense. In Croatia, it is self-conceived and even something that praises key people. They are completely unaware that they are part of the whole process because it is a behavior that has been rooted so much that it is no longer a problem. The laws, and there was our Minister of Justice, come to Croatia after decisions have already begun to be implemented. Last week we discussed the key Law on the protection of the public from infectious diseases, to the end humiliated, compromised the Croatian Parliament because the ruling majority would vote the law that had already started to apply through a decision that had to be implemented. And we've passed it once upon a time. We probably wouldn't have done it then, if we hadn't found ourselves in a situation where we didn't have a sanction, so we can't penalize someone who wasn't listening to what was illegal anyway. In that context, we are now discussing a conflict of interest. When we talk about the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, yes, in Croatia the story goes - either once a commission. One commission with regard to public power and influence, we can say considerable powers. They might be out of line in organised democracy, in countries we like to talk about here, Scandinavian countries such as Norway and Sweden, where some other institutions would determine the job. In Croatia, most of the key institutions failed, so it all fell on the commission, so it remained as a small oasis within this chaos, through one small law, through one article they could act and indeed lead to some changes in society. That case is impossible now. What they had in their hands, which many here before me have repeated before me, has been taken from their hands, which is why we will not support this, and is ultimately devising the commission in its key function, and leaves it with the possibility of acting as an administrative body managing the changes in our property cards. Although we all know well that the key is not even found in them. As regards concrete observations, the law is contradictory as regards the so-called principle of action. Under this draft law, we have a situation that, on the one hand, the commission, which should be an independent body with a very narrow and specialized task, does not get the opportunity to base an article on its decisions. 5, but after the new article. 6, it establishes, builds and improves ethical standards in restoring public duties. And then, on the other hand, this bill argues that through the adoption and implementation of ethical codes, the role will be carried out by a multitude of local collective bodies in which the principle of the majority is governed. There is no doubt that this will lead to the hyperinflation of various ethical codecs to be used instead of laws as ethical courts. And perhaps this will be used more as a political tool for those who have a majority, than something that should morally improve the state of society. This law will also cause legal and ethical chaos. Many ethical codecs mean that minorityes will set their own standards of ethics in politics each municipality, city or county. We look forward to what it will look like in Croatia. How, for example, one mayor, will later, by his own recognition of the recipient of the bribe, consider the ethical code within his county. Until he was discovered. Will there be an emphasis on that? Or one mayor who is a later convicted bully, at some point thinking that it is crucial to point out the inadmissibility of domestic violence and to link it to the behaviour of any public function. I can't wait to see what kind of ethical code they'll work out. And by which criteria, given that the action plan that should be defined has not yet been adopted, and yet this law foresees that no ethical codes should be adopted within six months, according to no rules, no guidelines. So the space for total chaos is open. I would like to warn that science recalls that in Central and Eastern European countries ethical codes show a structure similar to the laws and contain definitions of principles, practical application of principles, sanctions and links to existing laws. The reason why it says we can look under the circumstances for countries with insufficiently built democratic culture and fragile political institutions that generally show a higher degree of corruption, unethical behaviour than developed countries. So, what happens in such countries? The laws, as I said earlier, we see that we are bringing a post-festum, very often we do not implement them in practice, and then the ethical codes that they are refined upgrades to a legally regulated state are used instead of the law of the Wild West to judge them political opponents and that is what these legal changes will bring. They will actually humiliate laws that are low enough in Croatia anyway, so we change them every year because we do not seriously deal with them in the Assembly, while at the same time allowing ethics to take the place of the law and ethics according to the principles of those who are all just unethical and proved the judgments we received later.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82120	Thank you. We're going to the fifth debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Katičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82121	Mr. Chairman, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the discussion of the first reading, and so in this second reading, everything in some way comes down to one single point, and that is the issue of the functionality of the present Committee with some intention that it will be offended or euthanized, which simply does not correspond to the truth. I also carefully read all those remarks that were in the first reading of the report that belonged to this final proposal of the law. I must say that I fully agree with this part that was manifested by the current ministry because some of the proposals that went and were, in particular, absolutely in agreement with the remaining legal regulations that regulate this and similar matter. So they heard various ideas from the enrolment for donations, so the transfer of donations, etc. However, it limits some constitutional matters, and a survey of the origin of the property is also mentioned. Seems to me like those times are over. We have our IRS, there's a general tax code, clear treatment. Because I want to say it? It is also necessary to look at this law as a whole of the reform that is going on. Here is my question, which was the replica of the opening exhibition, and it went in this direction to indicate that this was also one of the instruments of the way to fight and, among other things, against anti-corruption measures, but I am going to do this a little bit more in the final or obvious. As mentioned above, the applicant stated that there are numerous improvements in this proposal, i.e. from the extension of the address of the Law itself, the introduction and additional obligations of the obligor, the declaration of the conflict of interest itself, the prohibition of participation and decision-making, the improvement in the context of the property cards themselves, and the conduct of other transactions which relate to public importance or public action. The rights of public duties, strengthening the status rights of the Commission itself, are also limited. The same is also done in a way that avoids the fact that the exception is mentioned. In particular, I will return a little bit to these provisions of the current Law of 5th or existing 6th, I do not think it is sufficiently repeated, therefore it should be repeated again in the absolute text is an absolute identical formulation except for one word that is changed from the debtor to the official. The section concerning GRECO is also mentioned, as I followed all the media and publicly available ideas, and I understand that it is a document that probably has a certain code of secrecy of the fact that it is a document that was the only observation that went in the direction that it was a way or a term, a time period of adoption of the law itself. But I think this law will move away now. What exactly do I want to point out why I want to stress the exception again? It has caused quite a public dispute because many have called on, because calling on that decision turns out that this matter is not defined, so I think... a step forward for the Commission to refer to the High Administrative Court in which the Council will be three judges at a non-public session if it occurs. [[You don't understand.]] The text also included legal protection against a decision on the existence of a conflict of interest in such a way that no appeal is allowed against it, but it is possible to initiate an administrative dispute before the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia, which the decision on the appeal shall take within 90 days of the receipt of it. This is one element for us, an instrument that can only encourage and support the fact that in this way we are really embroiling the work of the Committee in the legislative framework of the Republic of Croatia as such. I have something to say about the context of sanctioning that has so far been different interpretations and different actions. It is now clear and unequivocal, and as the recommendation of GRECO was also mentioned, clearly and unequivocally introduces a solution which can also be determined by their amounts. They are a significant fact that the proposed text has significantly increased them, and even up to some hundred percent of what I think has a certain preventive activity towards all potential conflicts of interest that may occur. Finally, I have already mentioned this law should also be seen through the prism of other legislative and sublegal acts as well as government decisions, which concern all anti-corruption measures. It is somewhat less exposed to the public that in the mandates of this government, many decisions and legal acts have been made aimed at reducing the potential of corrupt activities. I say again, first of all, the strategy against corruption until 2030. Then a number of acts relating to the management of public enterprises. Some of the colleagues mentioned that part here, so I think it is important to emphasise that there is also a code of corporate governance and a function of coherence among the first in Europe that we have entered for all companies in which the Republic of Croatia has, and I am sure that this was echoed by European institutions. It is also important for the end to point out that we will also approach the implementation of OECD guidelines in our system. These are all, of course, documents that are publicly available and can be easily seen on all sides of the government. I also mentioned again it is important to point out that the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the current Final Bill on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the proposed text. I think that all the newspapers that have been inserted into it will significantly lead to that zero tolerance rate being done on the possibility of self-corruption activity, and that the work of the commission itself will be combined and implemented in the legislative framework of the Republic of Croatia as one of also elements in countering these activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82122	Thank you. The next club of MPs will be the Social Democrats, according to Honorable Representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82123	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, first of all, when it comes to this law, then we should say that from the first to the second reading we have not received an answer to a single question, nor is this law in any part of it different. So, there was absolutely no shift. This only shows that this law is of a purely cosmetic nature, and it can be called a classic spin because it will basically not affect the prevention of conflicts of interest but will in fact make it exactly the opposite of the Commission to decide on conflict of interest difficult work and make this work completely impossible and impotent. In regulated European and world states, therefore, the Committee for the Decision on conflict of interest is in some way an anti-corruption body and an important anti-corruption body, because it is known that conflict of interest and corruption go hand in hand. In this way, the weaking of the role of this commission sends a message that the fight against conflicts of interest in Croatia, and therefore corruption is not a priority of the government's work, because how else does this law that has not received neither support nor European GRECO nor the world OECD? So, this law is exclusively eye-waving for the Croatian public in front of the EU. But that's no wonder, given the fact that the budget for the next 2022 was already full of speeches here to fight corruption, only 16000 kuna were secured. Is that the government that likes to boast about fighting corruption? Unfortunately, this is the same government that had to leave 14 ministers on suspicion of corruption. It is the same government that gets the European Prosecutor's Office showers when it must arrest the suspects of its former associates, close associates because they could not do so by Croatian institutions. Unfortunately, this is the same government that is proposing this law that has been trying to cover up a number of corruption affairs in Croatia and relativize corruption that is unfortunately causing people to lose confidence in our country's institutions and leave our country. Therefore, there is absolutely no moral responsibility in this government, and given the increasing number of corruption affairs, given recent arrests under the European prosecution's orders, given that the scope of individual politicians in Croatia is tightening, and given the attempt to cover up investigations primarily in the DORH, one would say that a supervisory institution will finally begin to strengthen, that a shift will take place in the fight against corruption, i.e. in the fight against all negative phenomena in our society. But in Croatia, it happens exactly the opposite. So there is no personal responsibility, and in particular there is no shame when it comes to ruling politicians. Why do I say that? Because unfortunately, examples of politicians' personal responsibilities in Croatia are only an exception, a rare exception that confirms the rule. The government in our country should be such that every citizen of ours is trying to allow him to live better tomorrow than today and that must never be a means of enriching individuals in office, as we unfortunately see in many examples today. Therefore, the priorities of our action as a Croatian Parliament that wants to restore trust in this institution, and also in the interest of the institutions in our country, should be strengthening and protecting the very independent institutions, a clearer definition of the role and powers of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest as well as strengthening the institution itself, not a weakness that today's law is trying to achieve. It should also be a priority to ensure expertise, not similarity in employment in public enterprises and other institutions. So our mission should also be as a politician to be true anti-corruption fighters that eats up our society. This law not only confirms that this government is not, but this law confirms that the Government is deliberately making changes that enhance the Commission's action to decide on a conflict of interest and make it a completely powerless body. The first thing, if the law defined what is a conflict of interest, except for who is addressed, who is addressed and who is subject to the law, and if the penalties were more rigorous then they could only expect more serious shifts in the fight against conflicts of interest. In this way, if you have not prescribed penalties, which the Government has not done, for dishonest politicians, you have de facto not made it impossible for them to be in a conflict of interest tomorrow and potentially in corruption the day after tomorrow. This law also ignores the key assumption of GRECO from the fifth evaluation round in which it is a clear message that it is an important part of the law whose infringement should also be sanctioned. So the separation of ethics, or integrity from conflict of interest, is a complete misunderstanding of matter. And it is unfortunately in this law accepted and the adoption of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest on the administrative body, unfortunately it is a major step backwards. And that's the key thing about this proposal that's coming before us today. Furthermore, the conduct of the procedure for breach of the principle of conduct and decision-making is the basis of prevention and backbone of the work of preventive anti-corruption authorities and has been an important part of the work of the commission. What is a major grudge, especially coming from the world organisation OECD, which is a prestigious body when it comes to a number of things, so Croatia has not entered there, and as it seems long as it will not, their great regret is that, according to these standards, all relations such as these should be better defined. private connections, such as the financial interests and similar relations which may have a critical impact on the behaviour and performance of a particular official. Private interests in this law are limited only to direct financial or monetary interests and thus is a zone of extremely narrow understanding. So, an extremely Prussian understanding that further complements this bill. In accordance with OECD guidelines, therefore private interests should be defined in such a way as to include other private activities as well as the interests of the private persons who are not present, and any other relations which can rightly be considered to have a negative impact on the performance of the duty, duty. So in this way, the OECD's completely denied guidelines, the circles of the most developed countries in which Croatia unfortunately is not, and obviously because it ignores their recommendations, are hardly going to be. The third, perhaps the most important thing that makes it impossible for the Commission to work normally is that the Commission does not have the possibility to ask for documentation from private companies. That means his work is practically completely blocked. It has no other way or other tools to check certain facts and documents themselves. So, from this point on, it is clear that the government intends to narrow down the public officials' obligations and from the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest de facto to make one powerless, impotent body without teeth. Finally, I heard that there were certain references from the minister to my account, so I have to tell him that in the conflict of interest I didn't, that's what the competent court said, but I'm surprised that a minister who comes from such a small but still a university has something against scholarships in Croatia. It's especially strange because people who come from a certain scientific system should have nothing against scholarships. Maybe it's a certain personal dare I'll say, the personal attitude that reflects that he may not have studied well, that he didn't have good grades and maybe he didn't get any scholarship himself but he's the biggest scholarship that ran him into the office of Minister she of HDZ. So without HDZ, he wouldn't be a minister, and the HDZ can thank his entire professional career, and when we see that this law is written extremely unprofessionally, extremely superficially, and that he hesitates the practical commission to decide on a conflict of interest, then it is clear that this is how the minister repays the debt to the HDZ that has made it possible to him absolutely everything in his life.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82124	On behalf of the Green Left Block Club, the time will be shared by respected representatives Raukar Gamulin and Bencic. First respected representative of Ursha Raukar Gamulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82125	Mr. Chairman, regardless of the intrusion of the legislator to show that this bill is in line with the recommendations of GRECO, they have failed to convince us because the recommendations of GRECO are very clear and very concrete. GRECO, therefore the specialised anti-corruption body of the Council of Europe has recommended empowerment of Article 6. in the current text of the law, empowerment in such a way that sanctions can be imposed in the event of a breach of those principles. I will repeat to the Croatian public that the principles prescribe honorable, fair, conscientious, responsible and impartial action in public functions, maintaining their credibility and dignity as well as citizens' trust. For breach of these principles, the legislator refuses to provide for the possibility to impose sanctions. So, if someone in the exercise of public office is dishonest, dishonest, unconscious, he is irresponsiblely empowered by this bill because there is no possibility of such unacceptable and criminal behaviour being sanctioned. In a country where corruption has become a way of acting in politics and administration. We should have, should we have re-listed an infamous series of only ministerial names that had to leave office in the last few years because of corruption and now our judiciary is dealing with these cases, and as we have also seen in the case of Zalac. If there wasn't a European prosecutor's office, he'd remain a dead object in the D.O.R.H. As it is, we also saw in the case of our state attorney who knowingly and deliberately lied in this Croatian Assembly, but the HDZ majority voted in its 2020 report. It is our judiciary, and now the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, will prevent it from calling and sanctioning it for dishonest, unfair, unconscious, irresponsible action in public functions and thus definitely empowering all criminal and corrupt actions because the Committee for Conflict of Interest I repeat cannot sanction it. Zero tolerance to corruption would mean applying every recommendation of GRECO, not because of Europe's obedience, but because of our genuine desire to deal with corruption. However, this bill clearly shows that the intrinsicity to be carried out by the vote of this Law is killing the power of the Commission and turning it into a bureaucratic body that will collect thousands of property cards, but will not have the possibility of sanctioning evidence of dishonest and unfair activities. This bill's proposal is a complete minorization and in fact a shut-down of a commission that is surrounded by institutions that don't do their jobs sometimes was almost the only instance of revealing corrupt acts. And this clearly shows that what it is, namely zero tolerance to corruption. It turns out that neither this government has any will nor will nor intention like any government in the last 30 years are really dealing with this evil that is destroying our society. Because no government has passed the Law on proof of origin of property. This law could sanction and prevent many acts of corruption that, unfortunately, were never missing in this country from the top of the government, and consequently to the lowest levels. The law on proof of origin of property would solve many injustices and sanction many criminal one-off profits. But he's gone. And while the party is convicted of corruption in power, obviously there will be no further. And this proposal for a law on the prevention of conflicts of interest is a clear indication that the government's determination to fight corruption is purely and exclusively declarative. It's just eye rubs and our public and Europe. Under such a law, corruption in Croatia will rule and continue to rage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82126	The esteemed representative Sandra Bencic will continue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82127	Thank you. So we have already heard many objections to the Law itself, and most of the opposition agrees on one thing, which is that this Law prevents the effective work of the Commission in preventing corruption and regulating the issue of ethical action of officials. 10 days ago, we learned from the media that GRECO carried out a conformity assessment of the proposal for a law with GRECO's recommendations and that it negatively assessed compliance specifically regarding changes in the way the Commission works according to the principles of action. That's probably why the report hasn't been translated yet, and it wasn't translated so it couldn't be published on the GRECO pages, so we wouldn't be able to see it and not be able to lead this debate exactly on the basis of what GRECO gave as arguments. So that's how we're going to see GRECO's report and the conformity assessment, or only when it's too late and when this law will already be passed. However, what is actually most interesting in this debate was said during the debate brought by HDZ representative Katičić. He said the law should be seen in the context of the HDZ's overall reform efforts. And I absolutely agree with that, because this is exactly the most important perspective we need to have in front of us, the context of reforms under quotes. So the HDZ has gone to a major centralisation of all parts of the public sector: from welfare centres, hospitals, use of EU funds, fiscal centralisation has already been carried out last year. This is actually the last act of enslavement, capture of the state and society, in a way that has never been seen so far in the field of European Union countries in terms of centralisation of public resources management. So now under the direct control of the prime minister and his brilliant ministerial staff that counterpart Kekin was talking about this morning, it's gonna be all the public sector and that local and that state. Now all common public resources will be under direct control not to say on the HDZ plate and, of course, it should now be disabled to see all the negative consequences of what is going to happen, which is an increased number of conflicts of interest, an increased number of corruption affairs and do not give God concrete accusations and court proceedings. That's why it was so important for Plenkovic to leave Hrvoje-Šipek at the head of the DORH because she proved herself able to glare on both eyes and so that even a lie is not her side. That is why it is so important to enable Plenkovic to minimise the effective action of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests and its downgrade to the formalist body which examines who has entered into the property card, whether or not he has entered or entered into by law, but not that this same commission from the fact that someone has entered into the property card can draw some conclusions on how the officials act, about whether he has violated some ethical principles, for example whether the property he has entered in extreme disproportionately with his incomes is not possible for the Commission. So, the Commission will finally become what all public bodies like courts, ministries, DORH have become long ago. So, the bureaucratic institution that puts the clutches that it has done something without any real impact, and that's what this law does with the commission, it brings it down to what we already have and what we've been looking at for years, which is the red tape of all procedures of independent bodies. So, I want to stress that all actually the commission will not be able to operate under this law. So, the commission won't be able to say that it's the alleged A.P. in breach of the principles of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest when using a government plane for party purposes. Also, the commission won't be able to see if some devilish HDZ has earned something on the side, so he transferred it to his adult children because they're not inside the property card, their assets are not visible. The commission will not be able to ask the IRS to determine the disproportionateness of the property of the officials and their incomes, so someone who had 17000 kunas of wages gets property within 4 years let's say a few million euros to anyone. The commission will not be able to determine a violation of the law in case yesterday's official becomes a lobbyist for some companies and lobbys for private interests in his fellow officers. I was told today by the promoter that it would be settled somewhere in 2023 and until then who was in the pit, he was in the pit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82128	On behalf of the SDSS Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Dragana Jeckov, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82129	Dear colleagues and colleagues, very soon after the first reading and distinguished secretary of state pardon, after the first reading before us, the final proposal for a law on preventing conflicts of interest and during the first reading said that this legislative proposal has caused a lot of controversy. But what to say, then, not for the controversy but for the crackdowns that followed after the first reading, or between the two. What needs to be pointed out, and I believe that these bickerings have actually lost the essence of this legislative proposal, because we have not been able to fully understand whether the opinion of the anti-corruption body of the Council of Europe or not, whether it is positive or not, and whether it can be decided by principle or not. Therefore, the very core and purpose of the Law on the Prevention of Interests has been lost, and this is certainly the fact that this law, or later, which will be implemented, must certainly be prevented, or prevented from conflict of interest, and consequently have the possibility to punish conflicts of interest regardless of whether it is by principle or by other means. It is not disputed at all that the Commission's conduct and decision-making should be brought into line with the practice of administrative courts, the High Administrative Court and the Constitutional Court, and assuming that they respected international standards then there should indeed be no problem or alignment with the recommendations of the Council of Europe and GRECO expert body, as well as reports on the rule of law of the European Commission. We have heard that the commission will be able to impose administrative and monetary sanctions on infringements of the laws relating to specific infringements, and all of these Committees for decision-making on conflict of interest should indeed remain an independent anti-corruption body with new mechanisms and extended workarounds. This extension of the addressee's powers towards which the commission must never be simply from the mere satisfaction of the recommendations made by international bodies, as one of the predecessors said, it should certainly be because of ourselves. I said earlier that since there is no more self-application of the breach of the principle of action, the question is whether such an arrangement is in line with international standards. Definitely what needs to be said is that it would be a bad message to get messages from GRECO or any other international body that the law is bad, and we brought it in in the meantime. I will repeat what I said in my first reading, which is to make sure that the commission does not turn into an extremely bureaucratic administrative body for the collection of property cards by officials, i.e. the debtor. Some colleagues and colleagues as well as I have said something about the fact that bonds could have been made in different ways and that it would be good to extend the definition of receiving taxpayers, so the monetary income is considered to be received on any basis not only for the conduct of public duties. There are certain changes that concern property cards to be passed once a year, to specify the obligation of the obligor after 12 months to submit the property card, to include data on the activities, memberships or functions that the obligor performs within two years before the entry into office, as well as newspapers concerning the possession of the crypto currency, and on claims from third parties such as loans. Although, after the entry into force of the new law in property cards, the change of data on the approximate market value of real estate will also be visible, as well as transfers and donations for underage children and partners continues to consider what I said in the first reading, it is necessary to specifically indicate the revenues by re-use of agricultural and similar land in construction. Especially since such a reuse can provide considerable property benefits and rarely and unlawful benefits, which is not negligible. I still think it would be good to include the obligation to report real estate transfers and donations above a certain value over a certain period of time prior to the submission of the property card. And in doing so, we really need to consider and find a measure of whether this can also apply to adult children and parents, because as I said, perhaps preventing a potential conflict of interest is somewhere in the fundamentals of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82130	The next Club of Representatives will be the Centre and GLAS, and Dalija Oreskovic will speak to the respected representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82131	I thank the president. My fellow MPs and one representative. First of all, two three words about who makes this law. This law does not pass the Croatian Parliament as a legislative body, the legislative branch of the state government, in which, in agreement with the ruling and opposition, it would discuss what our key steps are that must be taken so that Croatian society and state can move forward. No! No! Here the opposition points to what the entire domestic and international expert public is saying, which is that this proposal for a law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, a system for the prevention of corruption, as well as the Commission for the determination of conflict of interest as a competent body, is being killed until the end. The purpose of their existence and their actions is gone. This law only adopts HDZ. Forced. To the muscles. With the help of obedient hands in the Croatian Parliament, who do not think about the damage they do to the Croatian state and to all its citizens. So this is a law that is ensued exclusively in accordance with the interests of and according to HDZ. So HDZ is a political party, the only political party that is legally convicted of corruption. Also, 14 ministers stepped down from the past government of Andrej Plenkovic due to corruption affairs and the situation of conflict of interest. And that takes away HDZ's legitimacy for proposing and imposing such content of the law. And even among those ministers who have not been removed, there are those whose corruption affairs, and thus the issues of conflict of interest, should be thoroughly examined. Among them is Finance Minister Zdravko Maric. The last in a series of such items is a case of receiving an illicit gift in the form of staying on a yacht of a wealthy and powerful entrepreneur. By way of political pressure on the judiciary, Andrej Plenkovic has succeeded in suspending proceedings in the case of the Afera Borg. Both against themselves, so against mine, former Economy Minister Martina Dalic, but also the already mentioned Finance Minister Zdravko Mamic. However, Andrej Plenkovic remained bitter of taste and pain from the stings of the Commission's regrets, as the only independent anti-corruption body that had the insolence and courage to even deal with this mega-afert of the Borg and the way the Agrokor law was passed, so it is a corruption affair over all affairs, therefore, in general. Other law enforcement bodies from the anti-corruption system couldn't do that. Independent and professional, professional work of anti-corruption bodies, Andrej Plenkovic does not allow or forgive it. If that were the case, it can be seen from the conduct of USKOK and DORH, which enlarges corruption cases against its ministers and ministers, hiding in their drawers. With the choice of obedient persons, Andrej Plenkovic managed to break the independence of USKOK and DORH, but with the commission it was a little harder to achieve. That's why he's attacking him now with these changes to the law. And the first question that we all have to ask together is, what kind of anti-corruption system does HDZ need? Well, of course, the one who doesn't mind the HDZ, its corrupt politicians at all. One of which HDZ politicians won't be anything. That's exactly the provisions of this law. So, given that this law erases the meaning of the existence of the commission, it was simply better to end it until the end and thus achieve at least the savings of several million kunas in the budget, than to let the commission live this senselessly until the end of the term of office. So when I talk about the mandate, I mean the current assembly of the commission that is here, it will remain on its duties a little more than a year, and that since 2018, from the beginning of 2018, when they entered office until today, the Croatian Parliament has not discussed any of the only annual reports that the body has achieved have submitted. And what was it intended to accomplish? And it's done. To put out the importance and influence of that body. This was achieved in order to prevent public debates and also to justify criticism about the content of certain decisions they have made. It was prevented that parliamentary representatives who did not know enough about the conflict of interest heard a word from the representatives of the body themselves, here in the Croatian Parliament. Such a debate would help them learn something and hear something, so that when they amend and supplement the law, or when they pass a whole new law, they don't talk as we've heard, they hear opportunities during this debate, but by now, who knows the debates, but by now, who knows what else is waiting for us. So this law means the end of the fight against corruption, and after the HDZ shift in the next parliamentary elections, we will have to find strength for a new start. And only then will we be able to discuss what changes we need within the entire system and what should be done precisely by preventive anti-corruption bodies. Therefore, prevention should establish early detection of corruption risks. A literal network that will prevent corruption from happening at all, and if it appears in that network, corrupt fish will be easier to spot, sharks and sharks will be brought to justice. The powers and powers of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest as designed in this existing law, and even less in the proposed amendments, are far from such a system. I therefore believe that this existing model and this existing concept should be completely abandoned. What I really suggest in the corruption prevention system I will try to explain through a whole series of amendments submitted, but in short, the commission as a word points to a body that meets occasionally, temporarily, ad hoc to solve some ad hoc objects. If we have a permanent independent, independent and professional state body, whose members carry out their duties in a permanent working relationship, then we are no longer talking about the commission. Then we're talking about something else. I think the name of the body itself should be changed, and here I suggest that it be the Office for the Prevention of Corruption. And if we are talking about prevention and that network that should establish an early warning system, then a whole series of new powers and competences should be added to that body. One of them is an analysis of the corruption risks, whether they stem from laws that are yet to be adopted, I will give an example, that in the law on Agrokor we had such jurisdiction of a preventive anti-corruption body then that body could immediately warn, so wait a minute, the extraordinary Commissioners are not covered by the obligation to submit property cards and in some way give a negative opinion on such a bill until appropriate amendments are introduced. The analysis of corruption risks should also exist in relation to what is happening in practice. So when such a body notices that we have a whole series of institutions, bodies, or procedures that are not in the radar, and out of them come various corruption affairs, public budgets, public money leaks everywhere, then such a body should react, asking the legislator to amend such a practice and, if necessary, adopt a whole new legislation. Also, there should be clear rules in this law that are not to be dealt with. This is where we repeated what existed before. That you can't do business with the body in which you're acting in public duty. But without a problem, the Minister of Energy can do business through his company with all the entities that are in the intelligence of his ministry. Well, isn't that nakarad? Thirdly, this Anti-Corruption Office should be authorised to establish a full set of public registers and to carry out a systematic analysis of the data available from these public registers. For example, a register of all business relations with all public authorities. So by comparing data on trading societies in which officials share business data with all state bodies, regardless of whether it is a body where it is acting as a duty or perhaps another member of the same political party or coalition, there would be a network of clientelistic and corrupt links that could be controlled and better monitored. What is the most difficult blow to the work of the Committee, and it is achieved by this new law is that the public session and public decisions published on the websites of that body are abolished, which is something this House should never agree to without absolutely ever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82132	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the Secretary of State, Honored Josip Salapic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82133	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister, I should like to say here on behalf of the Government a few words for Mrs. Oreshkovic's presentation. First of all, we as the Department of Justice and Administration have euthanized and destroyed the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. Because the commission on which you were once given the powers that the court had brought down by its decisions. And more decisions. As a responsible body, as a ministry, we have brought this law into line with the decisions and case law of the High Court of Justice, the opinions of the Constitutional Court and all relevant judicial distances in order to give this law a green light. Once and for all, we should be telling the truth. No one has bothered us because of these principles, nor have we received a negative opinion, nor have we done anything to make the law a measure of one man or one party. Yours is an obsessive way of treating Prime Minister Plenkovic, according to HDZ, the Ministry of Justice and all of us. Just because you can't forgive yourself for not being supported by politics in the second term. I was a parliamentary representative when we voted for you. You've been chosen by politics. And that's the government of Zoran Milanovic. So the way you speak here, no one has ruled out the public from the commission's work. It is unfair, malice and rude when a man, a politician, is found guilty of any level before an independent and impartial procedure is conducted against someone to run immediately into the media, on TV, news of shocks, journals and programs. That's what we want to end. That the Committee is involved in politics. That's what we want to end. And not that you who were presidents, as soon as you allegedly anonymously or as soon as you find out, run to the media and do your political career. You're not protecting any conflict of interest. The conflict of interest is for us when we put private interest ahead of the public interest. The interest of the country. And we don't do this to these amendments to the law, but we make it even better, repairing the empty, legal gaps we saw in your mandate. We're repairing the empty law we saw in your term of office. You know the legal gaps. This is, the law is a step forward. The European Commission, through the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, has personally participated in 10 different sessions, meetings with experts from the European Commission. So don't let democracy eat itself. We've done nothing wrong, but we've got bodies dealing with persecution, we've got PNUSKOK, we've got the police, we've got the BOLO, we've got the State's Attorney's office, we've got the bodies that will deal with the fight against corruption. This Law is to prevent conflicts of interest realised or... All the tools in there are meant to be, we just don't let people who need to be independent of politics. [[You don't understand.]] You are not selected as an expert in conflict of interest, but as a political proposal from the government. As well as the new president and members we have chosen here as a policy proposal. So this law does not allow the Committee to deal with politics, but independent work. And what is the honor of the gentlemen of the MPs and MPs when the debtor, the official under the current law, doesn't even know that he's in the process, but through the media, he finds out that he and this person are on the agenda of the Committee with some topic that he himself has to call and ask you about, and what is the subject of what are you guys running the process for? And it's impartial and fair. It is a direct involvement in politics both in the personal political and any other discretion of a political person. And your obsession with the Prime Minister and HDZ is your personal matter. And you can't disgust the whole system by thinking that through your personal way of experiencing this whole thing you're doing this to spit on everything that's actually good. That's not what I said because I'm a representative of the government, but also some of your colleagues who are still sitting in the Committee. So, the real truth is that this law is a step forward, that this law has fixed legal gaps, and that some things will if they are seen not being corrected. But this protects not only those of us who are sitting here today, but all those who will deal with politics in the future at local and state levels so that no one can spit in advance, nor conduct a procedure without notice and without someone having an impartial right to defend themselves. This law obliges 7 thousand debtors to file property cards. We have an article 7 that clearly states what is forbidden and the principles remain. The ethical code will solve this at national level and at local levels, and you, your personal frustrations, share on your political agenda and those of your voters who supported you should know that you have built your political career on the basis of other people's fates. That's not fair. You're an unfair person.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82134	We have two replicas. Stay here, please. He is the first respected representative of Dalia Oreshkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82135	Mr. Salapian, you just manipulate and lie. First of all, Article 44(3) states the following new law, this law that you propose: “The session at which the Committee makes a decision is public unless it requires reasons for the protection of privacy, public morality or public security...” blah, blah. Such a provision did not exist until now, it is above all. Second, I have absolutely no fixation on either the prime minister or the HDZ as such. I do research on corruption, corruption phenomena. It is not my fault that the HDZ is the biggest corruption phenomenon in the Republic of Croatia since it existed. As far as the ethical codes are concerned, it's crazy to think that something can be done for them. And as for whether this law is a step forward or backwards, so only the new commission chosen by HDZ's majority argues that this is a step backwards.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82136	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82137	Dear MPs, what you're telling me is that I'm lying is an honor to me that you're telling me and I'm glad you're saying it. So I'm back in the history of what we brought here. I've been a part of this Law since 2011. So you're the person who's maligning the facts. You can't forgive yourself for not being supported by politics in that place again, and we haven't done anything, or destroyed or done anything wrong. You can say whatever you want, and we as government representatives can't say that. We can't answer your face. So how did you come up with some of your results after that when you weren't a member of the Committee and the President but were involved in politics? You've called people in advance responsible without having facts in your hands honestly, that you've conducted the procedure fairly. So let the court do its own thing. If HDZ had been released by chance, we would have had an impact on the judiciary. When he's convicted, he's a thief's party. The HDZ will talk about the results in the election, and I hope you will, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82138	The honourable representative Oreskovic has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. What was hurt in the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82139	So Article 238 here is about personal insult. So as far as HDZ's results are concerned, when someone is ruling and passing these anti-corruption laws with 16.4% support, it can also be called an occupation. And as for my political engagement he came fat, fat, fat after working at the Committee. I can get my career out of the state system whenever I want. And as for the 2011 Law, where are you now able to enter bank accounts? Where are you now able to invite an official to resign?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82140	Thank you very much, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82141	And all that was in the law back then. So how dare you tell such nonsense?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82142	Thank you very much. You're way out of time. I estimate he hasn't been injured by the Rules of Procedure. I won't give you a warning either. But I ask everyone to refrain from the hard words. You told the secretary of state that he was lying, etc. Which is a fat breach of the Rules of Procedure, I didn't react to that. I haven't responded to perhaps any exaggeration that the secretary of state said the same, but I ask you all together to stick to the dignity this house deserves. I'm asking you nicely. Dear Representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82143	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State Salapic, you have very well and accurately detected the work of the commission led by the then-president of the Committee of Mrs Dalia Oreskovic and today's debate by politician Dalia Oreskovic. And when we tell her that she destroyed the perception of independence with her political engagement, she doesn't want to accept it. Here they wave in every debate with the cases in which she tried, in which she made decisions, and publicly. That's what the public likes. That was what wasn't guaranteed by law, and they were doing it. What did they expect? To condemn you first to the public, and then they'll end up writing what they think. And when it fell in the courts, no one could convince them that they did it wrong, that they didn't know it, etc. But today they say that this Greco again says what he didn't say, that the courts have judged without judging properly because they have raised themselves to one height to which no one could.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82144	Thank you very much. Thank you. [[Attacka Boric: It's the worst anyone could have done, and it was Mrs. Oreshkovic.]] Honorable representative Oreskovic has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Which is where the Rules of Procedure got hurt.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82145	Article 238 Mr. Boric insults. As far as I'm concerned, he called me to manipulate the objects I've been working on. Well, they weren't my items, they were the objects of one body and the Republic of Croatia. And good thing there was a public work. And you need to know that the files you're talking about are confirmed at first degree administrative courts. At the High Administrative Court for six full years until the Constitutional Court ruling which I politically conditioned. Well, I wasn't sitting in bars with Mr. Sheparovic, I was doing it by your party colleague Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82146	Okay, thank you very much. It really isn't, it's a replica and no, thank you. Let's stop! It was a typical replica and I have to give it to you, so I'll give you a warning. I'm asking you nicely let's stop with these pseudo injuries to the Rules of Procedure, please. The Honorable Secretary of State has a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82147	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Representative Boric, you can see how nervous you're causing your reactions. This means that both you and the government and I are on the right track to finally solve this mystery of work by the Committee to prevent conflicts of interest. We support an impartial, independent, expert commission that will be a successful anti-corruption tool. Each of the taxpayers in the Republic of Croatia or at local and state level has the right to do their job fairly, responsibly and consciously. No one's going to act like a court of law without it being a proper court. So the decisions of the courts must be respected. If the Constitutional Court had said otherwise, then it would have been okay. So when a court ruling affects someone's personal ego, then that court is no good, it's a political court. If the court had brought otherwise, it would have been excellent. The court brought a great deal. We must finally not be hostages or these things, or some people who inform international organizations of some of our things. We've made it fair, conscientious and responsible, and so we move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82148	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the MP of the Homeland Movement, a respected representative of Steven Nikola Bartulic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82149	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleagues and colleagues. It is said earlier that this law should be observed overall in the context of all the busy reforms that are being undertaken and I think it is true. Therefore, we must not only look in isolation at the work of this Committee but at a total of how the state bodies, including the public administration, function with us. Why am I saying that? Because no law, nor will this committee reduce or prevent a conflict of interest because simply the space for it is too big in Croatia. I've pointed that out more than once. There's a lot of reasons for that. First of all, it is seen through figures, for example, that the country's share of GDP when it includes more than 60% of public enterprises. So, a large part of our population I would say almost two-thirds of Croats are indirectly or directly dependent on policy-controlled consumption. So it's one big space for abuse of power. We see in countless examples. Cases may have a quick or, say, judicial epilogue that is acceptable, others become difficult, eventually people and forget about many examples. So, we got what we got. Many talked about corruption, about a convicted stranger. We all know that HDZ is legally condemned. However, these habits and beyond should be discussed, so other forms of conflict of interest not only when it comes to officials. And I'd say we're pretty public. Everything we say, we seem easy to find out. We have a medium that has a very important task of informing the public. However, some forms and some people who are in public space and have a strong influence on public opinion, for example in this pandemic, are not obliged to reveal their relations with large lobbying and interest groups that have clear goals and interests in this whole problem. So it is very important to remind that last week when I asked Minister Beros directly whether scientists and other experts who speak publicly about measures, about how to fight the pandemic, should we publish their financial relations with the farm industry, for example. He immediately agreed, immediately agreed. So we have that the public needs to know, it needs to be transparent. Because someone might have some hidden interest that's important to know. So whenever it comes to being independent, so-called. analysts talking about the political scene, about what happens every day in Croatia, and at the same time they have companies that work for individual political options and hide it. So it's a form of conflict of interest, but this law doesn't apply to these phenomena, and we should think a little bit more clearly about it. So whenever an important fact is hidden, or a financial relationship that affects the opinion of an individual who is in public space when hiding, the public needs to know. So we'll insist on it. So we watch our public administration function Croatia from state level to local. So every layer of bureaucracy actually opens up a space for abuse of power. They're citizens of some kind of hostage situation. We know how slowly certain procedures go forward, licenses. We know how land can be redeployed, at local level especially, yes, which would be consistent with the individual interests of a local powermaker. We have a case like that. So this all suggests that our habits and what people expect, actually from politicians is wrong, we have one distorted picture. It's a twisted picture. Also, the recent re-election of mayors in northern Croatia shows that unfortunately our voters look too lightly at some phenomena. Instead of zero tolerance, where we actually relativize, some phenomena relativize. I mentioned public companies and the way they operate and why they buy media space, whether it's ethical or not, is it... They may be in a particular conflict of interest because the government appoints these people, and they have significant resources, some of them monopolies are over. They have a monopoly position, so questions arise why they buy such media space. But I'm going to mention Slovenian 2, that address, as something that symbolizes that string. So why is it that prominent journalists from the media world, the leaders of public enterprises, and others are in place? For what? Because there are obviously, in the background, those relationships that aren't transparent. Here's the public found out about this place gathering, and it's briefly forgotten. It's already fallen into oblivion. But I think it's very, very clear that it symbolizes this situation with us. That condition. So Croatia is a pretty small country, people get to know each other quickly and then they become these relationships, which are not always transparent. And EU membership will not save us. We have been a member of the EU for 8 years, and we still have these phenomena, not to list them. We also have at EU level, now the pandemic situation, where 4.6 billion doses of vaccines are ordered, and no contracts are available. EU citizens cannot know on what terms, how such agreements occurred, even who, who negotiated on behalf of all of us. Apparently, there is a team, there experts, of 7 countries at EU level, that is agreed, but some countries do not want to publish the names of these people. So we also have bad practices at the EU summit, non-transparent business, a non-transparent way of making decisions. On behalf of all of us. And the interests are huge. It's no small thing to order that amount of doses. So the EU will invest nearly 100 billion euros in vaccines. Therefore, citizens must have the right, to know on what terms and how these agreements occurred. This is one example, so this topic goes beyond what we often talk about, the work of the commission, and how officials, some, should behave, under what conditions. This is a bigger topic. There's a lot of these phenomena, unfortunately, and we won't find out until the end of what was going on in the background. To sum up, the Homeland Movement can't support this law. We continue to believe that the Croatian institutions are our key institutions, trapped by political elites, that they are not quite free to act. This law will not change that, but I repeat once again that it is not just a matter of us, of our officials, of our government members, of local officials and the like. We have this phenomenon of conflict of interest in many places and unfortunately no law so far regulates it in the right way. We'll do anything to change that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82150	Thank you very much. We are now going to an individual debate and will first speak the esteemed representative Katarina Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82151	Good afternoon, everyone. What would be the function of this Committee to prevent conflicts of interest? I think I need to ask that question here today. I mean, it's not the function of that commission to give warnings, pucks, to wink at criminals, but-but you didn't do it well, you could do it a little better, you have until then and then. However, it would be one of the main functions of the commission to study the property card, to see if there is a disproportionate between the property card at the start of the mandate and the end of the term of office. Otherwise, property cards aren't there so the public wouldn't know each other, they're scrambling over some representative's wealth, or a representative's. That's not exactly what the media understands, is it? But it is important, so when a representative comes to his post, until the end of his term, whether he has acquired some kind of property benefit he cannot prove. And it means a fundamental and fundamental purpose, one of the more important would be that the commission has some authority, therefore, to communicate with the IRS and to investigate, if that official has no justification for such a reaction, or such a wealth that he has acquired, and cannot prove it, or to say something about his origin of the property. Now, that, we don't have in this law. What might be good is that we pass another law, it's a law on the investigation of the origin of the property and I announce that the Workers' Front will refer to the procedure of its law on the investigation of the origin of the property. But that's what we miss. So let's see where these officials get their numbers, such money, such real estate to prove their origins. So if there's a disproportionate between their incomes and their assets, they can explain where that disproportionate comes from. That's not gonna happen here. So here we don't have a defined process of examining the origin of the property, nor will any process be allowed to enable and confiscate illegally acquired assets,... State property, those assets acquired against the law or other regulation. [[You don't understand.]] So on the proposal of some state bodies, it means examples of the commission. The Commission would be an excellent state body to make this proposal, the competent tax authority should be able to draw some conclusions on the initiation of the procedure, to invite the respondents to submit a statement within a period of time on their entire assets, on sources of funds, on the time of acquisition, the purchase value of assets, personal costs, household costs, and to provide some other necessary information. It's one thing about this law. So we're not going to make much progress here. We're gonna get pucks, or I'd call it pucks. So, no, but you didn't fill out the property card properly, give it a little bit better. It's not exactly a newspaper. Another thing you'd like to warn about is health care and private practice. This Law extended the application of the law to directors of health institutions established by the Republic of Croatia and units of local and regional regional self-government under this Article 3. It is good that this is extended to the directors of health institutions, but this should be extended to both deputies and assistant directors, to the head of clinics, to the head of clinical institutions, to the head of institutions and health institutions. What's problematic is that we should also define what is a conflict of interest in the crown, in the Coronal year, means, at the time of the greatest pandemic of World War I. One of the fundamental things that we have to protect here is this law could do this is to protect itself means public health. It should be defined that one who works in a public institution cannot earn at the same time in a private institution. We know that this is a very common case that even the infrastructure of public institutions is used until it strengthens its private business, etc. So that's something this law failed to do, and that would be very good this year. And I can say that I welcome that these amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest and the Director of the Croatian Deposit Insurance Agency are covered by this law, because I must say that it will be very interesting to see the current director, Maria Hrebac, who has been at the head of the agency since 2012, where she has been appointed by the SDP Government for a term of four years. It's pretty amazing that since 2016 someone's been at the head of a body like that. We also have a 60-day situation, but I'm going to talk about it in the final debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82152	Thank you. The next one will speak to the esteemed representative of Vesna Nadj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82153	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. As we pointed out in our first reading, the proposal for a law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, and in this final proposal, the Government as a Proposer did not respect the comments that the Commission must be given the possibility to sanction infringements of the provision of Article 6. A law laying down the principles of action of officials because otherwise they are an empty letter on paper. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Final bill? That bonds in the conduct of public duties must act with honor, fair, conscientiously, responsibly and impartially, safeguarding their own credibility and dignity, entrusted with their duties, and the confidence of citizens if the Commission has no tools, no sanctions for sanctioning the dishonest, unfair, unwitting, irresponsible and biased officials or obligors as they are now called in this Bill proposal. It's like having a water pipe burst in your apartment, and a plumber comes in without any tools to stop you sniffing water around your apartment. Unfortunately, we are witnessing that officials of the resolution ministries and agencies at the central state level as well as local officials, mayors, mayors, mayors break these principles and in most cases expose them to the media, a huge halabuka about the arrest, the investigative prison of a month or two and then everything falls into oblivion like that "sniffed the donkey wolf, raised a big deal and that dead end". To some officials, it is not even an obstacle to re-election on the same duties. It is only a sign that the principles of action without sanctioning by an independent body such as the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest are not worth a single type of bomb. On the basis of the current law, the Commission has made declarative decisions establishing that certain officials have violated the principles of action prescribed by law by their action or failure, but the decisions repealing the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia, and subsequently the lower administrative courts of the Commission have been left without a legal basis for determining the infringement of the law, and the Commission has actually been euthanised. In the light of this proposal for a law, it is stated that the principles of action are governed only by one Article of the law which does not regulate the conflict of interest and whose potential breach does not constitute a conflict of interest. Why, then, as a proposer in the final proposal for a law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in general regulated the principles of action if they were just a decoration of the law, a ball on a tree to make it look better? For whom, for the European Anti-Corruption Authority GRECO? They're not that naive, either. Why such a regulation of the principle if you made it impossible for the Commission to act on the implementation of them through sanctioning the behaviour of officials? The government says the purpose of the Committee's existence to prevent conflicts of interest is the reason why it was founded to prevent and determine conflicts of interest and that the Commission was not founded to act as an ethical body. It is clear that we need an independent body that would play a role as an ethical body unless the government wants to prevent corruption at national and local level, so that the work of detecting officials with their hands in jam is done only by the media as it has so far. We now have at the level of duty, for example, the Ethics Code of State Lawyers and Deputy State Lawyers, the Code of Judicial Ethics, and the implementation of these ethical codes have not made us very happy to see the latest arrests of Judge Vekic and his friend without talking about the arrest of the former deputy state attorney. It's a shame we don't even have the code of ethics of Parliamentarians yet to be warned about what GRECO often warns about. This is a unique opportunity for the Republic of Croatia, which does not have a single Ethics Code of Officials, to demonstrate its real will to fight corruption. When given to the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest as an independent body, tools for sanctioning infringements of the basic principles of action may be unfair, dishonest, unconscious, irresponsible officials would not consider making part of the public money into their pockets or pockets of their relatives, friends or godfathers, thinking that they would not be caught. This is how the commission will be a regular chat about reviewing the property cards of officials, whether someone has entered 50 or 100 squares of real estate or has clouded their value. If this final bill passes, the state and local budgets will continue to be an ATM for some ministers, mayors and chiefs and directors of agencies. You're mistaken if you don't think they see it in the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82154	The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Michel Jaksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82155	Thank you, dear Vice President, dear fellow Salapic, colleagues and fellow MPs, above all a good day. So, before us are the amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest and what I have already apostropheded several times in my previous debates, it is a shame that these changes are coming just in the wake of new, old, current, how we will call them corruption affairs in which our former ministers, former members and members or current, the chairmanship of the party that is in power, some of their coalition partners are involved. Unfortunately, I have to say from this pay phone and some representatives and opposition political parties. And we are literally discussing how we will prevent a conflict of interest from happening and that through public funds certain flows of money girls towards corruption, according to our private pockets when we have a situation where OLAF arrests our former ministers and some allegedly investigates, even in a situation where someone is bold enough to report corruption in a local environment and eventually gets fired. Timing is definitely terribly problematic and it's certain that anyone watching this today on television or following media reports these days may be dead to a coldest conclusion, it's now a little bit of throwing sand into the eyes and a little foggy situation so that you don't stay the end of the year with those affairs, with all those arrests, but to be able to say there's something going on and something's trying to change. What I must stress when we talk about the Committee of Conflict of Interest, to prevent conflicts of interest that somehow seems to me that throughout all these years a consciousness has been created by the ruling that I should not say euthanize, but gently toss with regard to all those conflicts and all those events that we had opportunities to watch, opportunities to hear, and even for some there were even administrative disputes in court. Some cases have even reached the Supreme Court. This taste leaves me when all the legislative changes are read, where it turns out that the most important thing is to turn the commission into someone who will print our property cards, but also when certain changes have been made, they have done everything to make it possible for a retailer to actually sit and work in the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests on New Legislative Changes to not be able to apply, nor compete because there has been a clear restriction. So clearly a political will and a political coalition are being created to create an absolutely new personnel solution and new staffing in the commission itself. It's been mentioned several times that he's turned our attention to GRECO. All of this has been taken advantage of and some want to be accepted and implemented in our legislative changes. But what remains as a questionnaire and what is mentioned several times today is whether if the ruling claim that it is enough and that this is great is what it takes to begin to restore people's faith in the institutions of this country and to take away the Stigm from how much money, and some big 10% of GDP ends up in corruption. Because we still don't see how we're going to examine the origin of the property? We still don't see how there's a change in property cards where it comes in more? We still don't see how the Tax Administration that has been able to control our property cards and our assets will be involved in all of this, and when we see what we have today in the DORH, which in the IRS where much more time is wasted on whether or not to respond or to get away or to cover up, everyone will ask themselves a question that state institutions will assist the Commission in preventing conflicts of interest in order to finally start clearing up corruption in public functions and that it would care for once. What's small is interesting and I'll leave it as a pint for the end, that we've also had a debate about the director of HRT, where man wore some certified public notation papers that he wouldn't be in conflict of interest when he became director and wonders whether these changes are actually said to have been all this time in conflict of interest, but then he hasn't yet gotten away with it, so now this new one is going to stop it. It's not the first case. It is not the first such message, and therefore, from the point of view of the SDP and my personal name, I must say that we simply feel that everything that is changing is not enough and is not correct to our citizens who expect us to change this country for the better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82156	We have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82157	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. Well, I agree with you what you actually mentioned when you mentioned the IRS and actually the IRS. Because maybe it's a public perception that the property should be questioned by the commission. Actually, the IRS. So whether or not someone publicly announced their property like all of these laws is in charge of officials. It's not the commission's task to investigate because there's no mechanisms, there's no tools, there's no depth of all these databases to question these assets because it's actually a job of the IRS. And regardless of the IRS, it examines the origin of the property whether it's public or not. It's their job at the end. But it certainly takes what you've actually mentioned closer cooperation with the commission that's that tool of integration. But the rank itself is on the IRS, not on the commission, so, because there's enough public perception that it should be done by the commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82158	Dear Representative Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82159	I couldn't agree more with you, my colleague Lalovec, and it's definitely been a mild mix-up. What I have to say is that there are a lot of people in the IRS who are responsible and honorably doing their job and who are well underpaid, that in the IRS itself, a lot of tax collection has been done, on the control of certain cash flows. And you, as Minister, have played a significant role here. What is not sufficiently done in the Tax Administration is obvious that there is no political will here and today, and that the Tax Administration is finally clear of these origins of property and finally in large cases both the State Attorney's Office and the Crime Police and the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest is one clear, adequate and correct partner. Because just to draw attention to it, we have a year ago several huge corruption affairs starting with the case of Rimac, Kovacevic that I'm not counting on it now and somehow we're spinning huge money, huge suspicions of corruption, and nowhere does it appear what the IRS inspectors did.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82160	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82161	Yeah, I volunteered for the replica because you mentioned what I didn't get to explain in my debate, which is exactly what we had the selection of the director of HRT who gave a statement confirming that he was in conflict of interest and that now legally legalized such behaviour, means such a situation that the official may be in conflict of interest but if he honestly declares it then it's not a conflict of interest. I'm afraid that's where we do what many of our laws do, which is that we're legalizing lawlessness because it's clear that someone in conflict of interest can hardly solve this conflict of interest within 60 days. We had the same situation with a member of HERA whose husband was sitting on three of HEP's supervisory boards. We can figure out what that's gonna look like. So if the headmaster of HRT is going to transfer it, I don't know about my son, or we're not going to do much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82162	Dear Representative Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82163	Absolutely that and now this is definitely the law of what we discussed at the time and the fact is that we have a lot of these surrogate situations where something is passed on to someone and then it has nothing to do with me anymore. Okay. It can also be legally ironed, but I think that's where we go back to the bodies of the repressive apparatus and the IRS that should control, monitor and see exactly what's going on and what's going on. Now we see how much and where it spreads to the directors and directors of public companies, although I have to say that it's not done enough again because we have mass rotations that happen and situations to the situation, but obviously there's still not enough will, enough desire to deal with it more seriously and that we don't have the situation that we have today. And this law of lawlessness, so you remember the debate we had last week when we had about the covid measures, when we were convinced that it had to be passed because we're breaking the law, and when we said what law we didn't get the answer, we might continue in the same trend.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82164	Dear Representative Branko Bacic will now speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82165	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to say a few thoughts because we've talked about this Law of Conflict of Interest, preventing conflicts of interest, a potential conflict of interest countless times in this House. When we talk about it, I need first to clarify the conflict of interest. The conflict of interest is a situation in which an official is in charge of his public duty, a function he acts abuses to afford certain personal benefits, to himself or to his loved ones. And then it needs to be understood that this is a classic conflict of interest, which is the principle of action and what it is a criminal procedure. It's not a violation of the principle of conflict of interest. It can and it is an auxiliary tool that leads to conflicts of interest and then needs to be rigorous and punish the official or the debtor under the new law when there is a conflict of interest. And also any decision in which an official is found in a conflict of interest is not an automatic and criminal act. Here I am looking at my colleague Lalovac, he was a minister in the government of Zoran Milanovic, I don't think he was one of those ministers, but I think 80% of the ministers in the government of Zoran Milanovic were found not to have violated the principles, but rather in conflict of interest. Therefore, it does not mean that conflict of interest is an automatic offence, but conflict of interest can become a criminal offence and then it should be rigorous again to the end and punish it with the greatest punishment possible as a message to public officials which may and may not be done when you perform a public duty. Therefore, this should be clearly lighted up. I'm sorry she doesn't have a colleague named Nadia. She said an interesting thought a little while ago. She said earlier why the legislator put principles into the law if they would not be sanctioned. The first question should be asked by the legislator when he passed the law, because when the law was passed it was not done. But I'm not a lawyer. I wrote some other laws. I wrote the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction. In that law, we have laid down the principles of spatial planning. In these principles, we discussed an integrated approach in spatial order. We talked about the principles of spatial sustainability of development in the space for which a certain spatial-planned document is brought. We talked about the principle of free access to data that are in the spatial plan, but it's not about punishment or violations, or criminality for these principles that are like procedure, access to spatial order. This is also the situation with the prevention of conflicts of interest. We are talking about principles as an auxiliary tool to determine whether in the end an individual official or a debtor violated the Law on Courts. There's no Mrs. Oreshkovic either. She persistently, persistently and as a lawyer with a judicial exam should be a little more careful because of her own integrity says the Constitutional Court has abolished. The Constitutional Court has not abolished anything when it comes to the Committee for Decision on a conflict of interest, but on the basis of a constitutional action, the Constitutional Court has ordered the courts to reconsider, determine, on them. Not at the Constitutional Court, but on them, in regular courts to determine whether it is possible to punish an individual officer for violating the principle of action if it is not prescribed in that same law. That's what the Constitutional Court said. It did not enter into an individual, i.e. it did not enter into a breach of the decision on, the annulment of the commission's decision, but ordered the courts to question the question raised by a number of officials, who came in part from the left side of the assembly, so the opposition questioned when they were found in such a violation of the law which was punishable by the commission. And in public...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82166	Thank you. We've got more replicas. He is the first respected representative of Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82167	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, you have said three words to a potential conflict of interest. Do we have that in our current bill of law that we've had and that we've changed? What's the penalty for that? And who invented that formula in the first place? Is that what came out in the media as such a formulation, or has it written down by some opinion of the commission, because there have been large debates about it. I didn't find it anywhere, but it came out, and you were just explaining one part of how it ended. The second question, can you think about the opinion or understand the opinion of the commission that says if you are as a local leader or regional leader in relation to business with a firm, and this firm is building something for you or working in your house or having arranged something you are not in any conflict of interest. What are we talking about? Whom did we give this to arbitraryly determine by what criteria? Because it doesn't seem like a conflict to me, but they say it's not, but you just have to be careful saying it. So what are we doing?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82168	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82169	Thank you, Mr. Boric. Yes, the violation of the principle was in fact perceived as a classic conflict of interest in the public, and although officials did not sin on the law, to be sanctioned they faced political consequences and large ones, and some did not. Some have not even been identified as a breach of the principle of action, and some have had to resign under pressure because of public perception. Therefore, in order to avoid this arbitrary interpretation of individual members of the commission and commission, it must be clearly prescribed that there is a conflict of interest and that there is no conflict of interest, and a certain breach of the principle can be defined by an ethical code. I'm not running away from not having to make it public in a certain way, and that's not a question in the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82170	Thank you. Honorable representative Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82171	Thank you. I hope that we will agree with the respected colleague Bacic that GRECO said in his instructions that these principles should be strengthened in terms of the possibility of sanctioning, it is publicly available. I hope we agree on the fact that you have not translated the latest recommendations of GRECO and that we do not have them publicly published, although there are some indications that they are negative, i.e. that this law again does not comply with the recommendations of GRECO. So I am now asking you whether you respect the institutions of the European Union and what you think the message is sent to the Croatian public if these principles of fair, transparent and honorable performance cannot be sanctioned by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82172	Thank you. Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82173	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues. Before I rephrase you, you've made a big mistake in two parts. First of all, GRECO is not the institution of the European Commission, of the European Union or of the European Commission, it is the institution of the Council of Europe. It's still let one small difference. That's two important things, that's the difference. And another thing. I'd like to see what you're to me right now, you're asking me because I as much as have information, I haven't seen that Greco report. If you have it, so it's easy to translate it, it's not a problem to translate it. So if you have it, show it where it says that GRECO said you should sanction a breach of the principle of action. That's me, here's what we've already asked in the replicas and the minister. He clearly refused. I therefore respect both GRECO and the EU institutions, but in this process it was all done according to recommendations to strengthen the work of that body.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82174	Thank you. Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82175	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague Bacic. This is where GRECO said on page 22 of his report in point 66. considers that general Article 5 on conflict of interest is the central feature of a law whose enforceability is required. But it wasn't my question. What I wanted to say was next. You're talking about a potential conflict of interest, so this law does not foresee a potential conflict of interest, you predict a conflict of interest and punishment that follows if someone really wrongs about the law when someone is in conflict of interest. What bothers all parliamentary representatives of the opposition is precisely preventing this conflict of interest by stopping it right where it is potential, therefore within these principles. I don't see where the problem is to leave the principles and just add more sanctioning if there's a breach of principle. And then you have to prevent conflict of interest exactly what's the point of the law, which only says his name. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82176	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82177	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues Ahmetovic, have you seen in this law and where there are principles that have been thrown out, the principles are also in this law. Therefore, the principles of action are set out in Article 5, if I am not mistaken, still prescribed. Introductive to the law that is still in force, there's no difference. The minister said in one word, here I and my colleague Boric watched I see no difference. So everything that's written in the current law is written in this law as well. The principles of action are an auxiliary tool, an instrument however you wish to whichever committee you decide whether you or I are in conflict of interest will help. And if I'm not in a conflict of interest, if neither you nor I are, then I won't be punished for something that isn't a conflict of interest. Well, if that's the wrong thing to do in terms of the ethical treatment of MPs and officials, then let's do it in an ethical code. But you and I are going to be done huge political damage, and you haven't broken the law. And here I'm not protecting the right side, I'm protecting the left side and every obligor regardless of who that's about. It could be about me today, about you tomorrow. The day after tomorrow about anyone else. [[Thank you, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82178	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82179	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You mentioned the SDP government and ministers who were punished when someone from the government, then the government appointed ministers to a state agency that was free of charge and later withdrew it, and therefore most ministers were in this context as in some conflict of interest. So what's going on here is the question, so one general character, when you have one president of a company, I don't know if I'm going to take HEP, who's signing a contract, which makes big contracts and can be in this serious conflict of interest and one parliamentary representative, like a parliamentary representative in some conflict of interest in the end when it comes out of this mandate, and that these same measures apply to him as I don't know about the president of HEP who manages billions, who can then go to a serious company and a parliamentary representative who doesn't really have any influence, or anything afterwards, and they put them in the same shirt, because of that kind of potential conflict of interest is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82180	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82181	Comrade Lalovec, I agree in a great deal with you. I think parliamentary representatives in their actions, law-making decisions on all segments of life in Croatia, as opposed to what you all said by the director, the head of the administration of a big, strong company who can have a classic conflict of interest after the term of office. We can discuss this myself, but the reduction in the law and what you are saying would further lead us to the debate that HDZ wants both the commission and the representatives in a certain way to remove this from a potential and possible conflict of interest. And when you talk about ministers, they weren't just there, they were there, I don't want to mention their names, and there's no point, but there were those who named themselves in certain bodies, and for that orderly receive compensation, they received compensation. I think you know who she's dealing with. I don't want her here. to go.../incomprehensible/... to me it was a little bit the same, so it was what you said. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82182	Thank you. Dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82183	Thank you. I think this is the 12th time we've discussed the principles, which just shows that the matter isn't fully explained yet. So, I don't see the problem that the Committee of Conflict of Interest to some official that puck that he didn't respect the principles. It is still not a manifesto of fate as the President of the Republic would say, that we must, now, stick to it as the Holy Scriptures and use it as an incontrovertible argument. I believe that the parliament and parliamentary majority have a legitimate political will to remove the principles of action and decide according to the principles of action. This sentence of yours that the principles were yet, if they hadn't been cast out, that they were still in law, I would now hope that I wouldn't be misunderstood compared it to the current situation of Covid. The principles are here, but they're on the respirator, and the commission is on oxygen. The HDZ should only keep a distance from the authorities and these epidemiological measures should be respected in the fight against corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82184	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82185	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We never told my colleague Bauk that principles should be thrown out of the law, we never said, nor will I now, nor have I ever spoken. Based on them, as in other laws, the basis of other principles of conduct should insist on the legality, legitimacy, legality, whatever you want, of what is the result, the product of that law. There's no dispute there, therefore. And as for the respirator, as far as the headquarters is concerned, it would be good for the SDP to perform clearly, unequivocally, call on people to split, not question Covid's confirmation, that because of possibly little collection of political points that others do much more than the SDP ultimately is clear on how and how to make 2/3 of the majority or qualified majority of 76 the representatives of that Covid confirm the fort. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82186	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Bauk has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, in what way has the Rules of Procedure been injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82187	Well, basically, no injured Rules of Procedure, but I'm going to get a warning that I'm going to invite another people to be vaccinated like he told me to. Mr. Bačić if you [[/Intruder: That's right.]] Yes, as far as the rest of the decision is concerned, we need to make it in accordance with the Constitution, and we are a little dissimilar about the effectiveness of the Covid certificate, and we are even less diverged here on a similar footing, but the other remarks we said in the proposal in the debate on the law. [[Intruder: I to the survival of the certificate.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82188	Okay. Gentlemen, but I'd like to ask you to stick to the subject and not abuse this institution in violation of the Rules of Procedure. I have to warn you myself, but let's not do that, let's not, let's not. This replica has a respected representative, Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82189	Dear counterpart Bacic, one of the only questions I have not yet received the answer to today is whether the government's conflicts with the commission are the reason why people who have been sitting on the committee will be virtually impossible to continue reporting for the job and doing it because these latest changes turn out that no one who is now in another mandate will be able to apply to work in the Committee itself to prevent conflicts of interest, and it is a little odd that these changes occur after the commission has opened some conflicts and some processes against the government and against the Prime Minister himself, some have come to the administrative court. And as for the very vaccination and support of vaccination, I don't think it's at all controversial, and it would be much easier for me now to tell you as mayor that finally one of the headquarters is telling us what plans for Christmas and New Year's holidays are expected to be a much higher frequency of people, and Minister Beros didn't say a word about it a week ago, nor did he give us an answer. So it's hard to support something you don't know about yet or what it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82190	Thank you. Dear Representative Bačić, but please only without vaccination, it is not a vaccination now the topic is the conflict of interest of the topic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82191	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Jaksic, this law is not passed in one day, in five days, in a year or two. It seems to me that seven thousand is so said, about 7.5 thousand taxpayers of this law and does not bring this HDZ or the ruling majority. Maybe even someone from the opposition won't join on Wednesday in voting this law, not only applies to HDZ officials, and we're acting here in principle, personally I've never been in a potential or conflict of interest, nor do I, nor do I have any personal reasons. I'm saying this from principle, in principle I'm saying that you can't be convicted of something that isn't prescribed as a violation. This is also the case when it comes to criminal proceedings and when it comes to a decision on conflict of interest. You can't be tried for something that isn't broken. That's important, but those principles stand there, so help the commission when they punish to call... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82192	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82193	Thank you, dear Vice President. My colleague Bačić, you, as a matter of fact, have referred to the principles of action here. 5, i.e. pursuant to this proposal, Article 5 of the Law. Six. I would refer to what was mentioned by counterpart Ahmetovic in your debate, i.e. in the replica. She here quoted the GRECO report that it was necessary to achieve the enforceability of the Article. 5, however, it is a report that is old, so it is not a report so that it does not turn out to be in public that this is a new report that it does not have. No, that report was from before... No, it's from before the report. [[/The incursion from the bench doesn't understand.]] So, however, the enforceability of the Article. 5. It also made it very clear that the administrative court should, therefore, attach the principles of action to a concrete, concrete provision, a concretely prescribed article in the law itself. This is also the case with the European Court of Human Rights, which says that each regulation must be formulated with sufficient precision in order to allow for the consequences that a particular action may have on the person concerned. Therefore, everything is absolutely clear. I don't know if we speak one language, you speak another language or if you just don't want to understand it. Everything is absolutely clear, exactly what you're saying is excellent. 5. It is achieved by connecting to a specific... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82194	Thank you. Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82195	Thank you. Comrade Habib, you're a lawyer, so I have nothing else to add. It seems to me that the fundamental right that no one can be tried for something that is not a crime prescribed... It's a criminal offense. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the fact that, if found as a criminal offence, there are a number of principles that prescribe how and how this crime can be done. I mean, it's clear to me and I just don't understand that we've had to do it for a year, two, three, four repeats, and this for GRECO that you said I didn't have that information, thank you for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82196	The next one will speak to the esteemed representative, Željko Lenart, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82197	Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Vice President. So here's listening to the argument on the one hand and on the other, I'm even doubting that maybe I'm in some delusion that there's no conflict of interest in this country, that in this country everyone is fair even though someone estimates that 60 billion kunas are stolen annually in the Republic of Croatia through various conflicts of interest. This law that irons what is happening, this extension of the statutes of this law will only cover the commission with more material of the case, which is so on the Croatian proverb "if you want something to be resolved, then neither will this commission solve anything until now, nor will it be in the future. The laws passed in this assembly are mainly done not to resolve or repair the situation in the country but to promote the party in power as good laws solve problems. But then, with a time-out, we see that these laws have not been resolved, as they will not, and someone is trying to hide under the rug many things that are happening. I've also said in a debate around the club of MPs as long as there are no firm, clear and unequivocal sanctions for those caught in the offense, until they match their property and property with the family's rope until then, we can hang the cat on the tail because nothing's going to happen. It's just like when you compare d.o.o. And craftsman, you have d.o.o. You rob a couple of craftsmen who worked for you, you don't pay them, you change the firm, you put this one in bankruptcy, and you do business again. And a craftsman who corresponds to all his assets for what he does when he makes some kind of problem just fits with everything he has, so does the officials. The difference between officials in the legislative authority means parliament, county assemblies, city and municipal councils and executive officials because those in the executive power are the ones who manage public money and are the ones who are always well covered in the conflict of interest doing damage to the taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia means to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I don't see that they've been put here under any major increase or that something special is going to happen to them in future because we've passed a new law. The laws are persistently passed, i.e. They propose to the government HS and bring against the will of the people and against the people. And believe me, the day will come when you will think that you are a good people, but that day the people will blow you away. After 30 years of Croatian independence, after so many centuries of waiting for this independence, we have made the state a religion, sold out all the state's assets, all the production plants, destroyed the industry and what little else it has, and it will slowly disappear. We don't have energy, we don't have telecommunications, we're out of everything. We have an anthem, a flag, taxes and debts left. Let's break up, there's still time to fight for this people, let's break up, let's start proposing quality laws and let those who really want good for this people lead this people, no matter what they call them, let them really work for the people and let them work for the survival of this nation. The list shows we're not here. You know what I said the other day to my child, 19 years old, it's better to be a servant in an orderly state than a boss in a bad state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82198	The next debate will be respected MPs Mirela Ahmetovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82199	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of HS, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a law on preventing conflicts of interest, I believe that in fact all this debate on both sides of the assembly is well-intentioned and I really want to believe it and I have no reason not to believe it since everyone assures me that the purpose of this law is actually to prevent a conflict of interest and to improve the fight against corruption in our country. Here's a little more so the vice president of HS will be running the session. And the law itself states that the purpose of this law is to prevent conflicts of interest, and precisely because it is constantly noted that the purpose of the law is the law, that the purpose is precisely as it stands in its name to prevent conflicts of interest, which is precisely why the whole opposition insists that the recommendations of GRECO which is not under formal recommendation or order, but is the recommendation of GRECO that it is actually respected and that indeed the principles which are part of this amended law and that the previous one can actually be considered an equal part of the law that can be sanctioned in a way that reminds those who actually have sinned against those principles of the law and to prevent its further action in a way that truly in this conflict of interest is found in the future. The law on preventing conflicts of interest aims to prevent, however, we do not see in any way in the law how this conflict of interest will prevent it. Both counterpart Bacic before me and many before me who responded to the replicas of the main opposition spoke of a potential conflict of interest, however this law does not recognise a potential conflict of interest, he recognizes the conflict of interest, point, he recognizes the penalties if conflict of interest occurs, point, but the potential conflict of interest does not recognise. The prevention of conflicts of interest is unrecognizable. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. Paragraph 2 of the Law states "The purpose of this law is to prevent conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties and to prevent private influences on decision-making in the conduct of public duties", etc., etc. and then in Art. 7th point (i) says that the bonds of this law must not use the position or influence the decisions of the public authorities etc. to achieve a personal breakthrough or breach of a connected person. It's just one of the examples where the law's bounder is actually in conflict of interest, so he broke the law and then he was followed by those sanctions of 4 to 40,000 kunas. However, how did we prevent this man or this person, I'm talking about a natural person from being in conflict of interest? Not at all. Not at all. In his last published report, GRECO said that the article dealing with the principles of action, which requires that all public liability bonds act honestly, knowingly, responsibly and impartially, is in fact a central article of this law and that the Republic of Croatia should decide on the enforceability of this article. It is true that it is not an order by that body that the law must impose sanctions against the non-compliance of this article, but it is also true that it is sad that we are looking and waiting mainly in the laws of this nature which aim to prevent corruption or the fight against corruption that we wave so terribly when we have to wave, in fact we need them to order us, to force us, to sanction us, to sanction us, to penalize us, to declare us shamefully bad about fighting corruption in order for us to prevent corruption or to fight corruption to take a step forward. We constantly step back. And this law, as well as the Budget Law, where we have even reversed budget planning in terms of transparency. It's not a fight against corruption. If we are well-intentioned, then we have no problem nor should these principles be merely ornaments, but rather clear and unequivocal infringers of these principles and sanction themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82200	We have multiple replicas, the first respected representative of Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82201	Thank you very much, Vice President. So, to remind you a little fellow Ahmetovic how much memory I serve, thank God I still serve, so the first Law on the prevention of conflict of interest was one obligation for Croatia to join the EU, which literally Mrs Kosor, I mean not Mrs Kosor would not be prime minister, in fact more or less prescribed by the Romanian law. So which was absolutely not applicable to Croatia, but because of what is a Croatian problem, which is that I'm going to say a large index of perception of corruption, itself corruption, so that law was prescribed because at that point Romania was actually a European problem. Now from that first law that was definitely not applicable to Croatian opportunities therefore come extensions in amendments to the law, additions to the law, and so where things happen some here also mentioned my colleague Lalovec not to repeat myself over the last 10 years, and now we've come here where we are. And now my brief question at the end, do you think this new law is now changing and supplementing the law is for you now a step forward or a step back? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82202	Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82203	The results of the fight against corruption in the Republic of Croatia are best described by the decline of the Republic of Croatia in the perception of corruption, therefore, by the corruption perception index, which shows what the perception of corruption in the Republic of Croatia is. So we've been in a year seem to have fallen for one 2-3 or in the last 2 years for 2-3 places. If the aim is to these parliamentary deputies, if the goal is to do everything to this country to make us as much as possible about the perceptions of corruption, then we are on the right track. If our goal is to prevent corruption, and to show more strongly to all people of the Republic of Croatia that we are against corruption, then I see no reason to step up preventive measures or bring them into this law because there are no preventive measures here, there is no prevention, only punishment. when it's all over. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82204	Dear Representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82205	Dear colleagues Ahmetovic, here is your comment on the decision of the Administrative Court, which made Mr Karamarko innocent of the alleged conflict of interest he had, which was initiated by counterpart Oreskovic. Since you are in the same political bloc today with your colleague Oreshkovic, I would like to hear your comment so that you can reach the ashes and say that the commission has made a mistake here. So, the man is politically euthanized, so politically there is no reason why the commission took the right to do something. I must stress the commission which was shown as apolitical without political ambition, and today we see clearly that colleague Oreshkovic had political ambitions, or had them at the time. So, I have a deep suspicion that and at that time it means this commission was used for political reckoning, so with the blessing of the SDP with the executioner Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82206	Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82207	Thank you very much for asking. Well, I believe Mr. Tomislav Karamarko is proud of his lawyer we see in you. What I'd like to make right is that we're not in a political bloc, I don't remember signing a coalition, I guess I'd be informed as a political secretary. However, what I can say is that, even in the European report on the state of justice in the Republic of Croatia, it is clear that the judiciary is in such a situation that it is affected by it or that the judiciary is affected by it, even if the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not enter into the interpretation and comments on the decision at all, nor did the court which pointed out that the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest was wrong when Mr Karamark was punished. So much for the justice of the judiciary and the independence of the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82208	Dear Representative Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82209	Dear colleagues Ahmetovic, in fact, you have taxed everything you object to in these legislative amendments as you have set examples from the GRECO report itself, sorry, which should be changed, as well as in what way. And what I agree with you is that everyone in this assembly sincerely wants things to change for the better and to be a result of it, but what's my question for you is whether you think that this change is because the ruling majority really wants a profound fundamental change and to show that it's willing to deal with corruption and have independent institutions or this is just a little bit of public fogging, a little bit of sand in the eyes, and plus that cream on the cake reducing the rights and possibilities of the Committee itself to prevent conflicts of interest so they don't wave too much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82210	Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82211	Thank you very much. In response to your replica, it may also be a part of your replica sent to a representative before me or my colleague Bačić, and it seems to me that the people who are sitting in the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, who have opened a number of cases that may not be ruling in the interest of opening up may not be elected to this commission after the vote of this law, and a part of it lies in the last developments around the state's attorneyship where serious, but serious failures of such state bodies are actually being covered and supported by the ruling majority still, so I would not say that the result of this law is actually the real desire of the ruling to fight corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82212	Your Honor, Mr. Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82213	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Members, I ask your opinion when you spoke of sanctioning certain persons who have found themselves in conflict of interest, here's a clear example of which one is ruling or, or some kind of chief when naming some kind of family or some of this close friend, etc. and now the commission finds that any conflict of interest and okay, you get the fine of four thousand kunas, and that's it. But there is no, if the commission found that there was a conflict of interest then this must be resolved, it cannot remain in that function, it remains 4 years old, it has further conditions all the way it has, and the rest of it is, on some punishment of 4 thousand kunas, which in this context is symbolic given what compensation this recipient receives... that a step further is taken, that it is not only punishment but that if a conflict of interest is established, then the person must also be withdrawn from that function later on. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82214	Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82215	Thank you very much. Well, here you are, in your replica, in fact, saying the answer to that replica. Yes, they are intended as sanctions of a warning or a fine by referring to an apparent minor violation of the law and is now left to the commission in fact the possibility to decide which were obviously minor violations of the law or to determine the penalty between 4 and 40 thousand kuna. What would be devastating is that someone would pay simply 4 thousand kuna, and we know that in such positions wages are far greater, so multiple large, and the very benefit of the appointment of such a connected person in that body can be of further material benefit to the one who appointed him. Of course I'm about to go on and get rid of that person from the post, but history has shown that it doesn't really work that way and that's what's worrying.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82216	Honorable representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82217	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear counterpart Ahmetovic, I will return to this part that speaks of preventing conflicts of interest that you deny exists in the law itself. So, Art. 7. Taxation lists the actions, behaviour, conduct or conduct of officials who therefore constitute a violation of this law. So, as an official, I read this article and I say among other things primate and demand benefit, receive additional compensation, seek and accept and receive value etc. etc., and for that is the prescribed fine by the commission. So, just because I'm banned as an official, I will not be prevented and I will not do so and thus prevent me from entering a conflict of interest, because, contrary to me, the legislator threatens through this law with a fine by the commission. So if it's not a prevention, if it's not a restriction, I don't know what it is, so here you have a prevention yeah, here you have prevention. So I don't know which way you would have prescribed it differently or how you imagined it if this wasn't a prevention. So the whole chapter tells you about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82218	Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82219	Thank you very much. Col. Habian, therefore, this whole chapter, which you have quoted or referred to, speaks of specific cases of conflict of interest for which penalties or reminders or fines are provided, but these are not preventive measures, so we are talking about a conflict of interest already committed. This is not a law to punish conflicts of interest, it's called the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, so let's stop this conflict of interest. Here is one measure tomorrow to discuss this amendment or defend this amendment is the real transparency of public spending. So if you are already so much to prevent conflicts of interest let's adopt an amendment that has been handed over to the SDP's Club of Representatives and introduce transparent spending of public funds both in the state budget and in all public money spending positions, and thus we will take a step together, a common step in the real prevention and conflict of interest and corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82220	The following will be spoken by the honourable representative Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82221	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Your Honor. Here's if I've been able to understand this debate today since this morning's opposition is we're against this law because it's art. 5. from the existing in the new became art. 6th and that's enough for us and we understand that and we will vote it ourselves because here's the text hasn't changed, but we will give you an absolutely elaborate on this matter, and these are mostly just the principles of action that should only be applied in one party, only in HDZ. You won't judge gentlemen in our backyard. This is the role we give you both as individuals and as parties, and that is how we will discuss it because how else do we understand the debates in which one representative rises and says why you removed the principles of action from the law, he has not read at all. That's what we should be judging by. When he was tried for receiving 500 times the gift allowed, he immediately complained to the court. Imagine that hypocrisy, credibility, why you move it when I was judged, and I immediately complained to the court to end it and so today we discuss everyone from our positions. The conflict of interest, then the public of work, why you move it, and then the secretary of state explains what happened through the abuse of the public work that individuals were convicted before the public but by the commission for no reason whatsoever. You shouldn't have tried anything else just to write your own opinion. So we cleared up the story of a potential conflict of interest today. What's that? They say that maybe, but we heard here and the attitude from the SDP colleague in the conflict of interest you are or you're not, and the potential is that maybe, and when it's maybe then I'll tell you whether or not you are. Yes, because I'm assessing, so when the Constitutional Court tells the courts to make it clear, which isn't, and then they say they're politicians, and these others don't know how to judge because there are judges and they're in front of the cameras if they need to, and six hours I'm going to interrogate you, I'm going to run the papers. So they introduced what? They also introduced a time course as far as conflict of interest can be. If you are in a meeting that lasts 45 minutes as an official then you are certainly in a potential conflict of interest, I have seen these solutions and opinions. If you're an official and you're the director of your firm or business or crafts then you can be 21 days and we'll tell you to get serious and get it done with that incompatibility of your duty so take it off, so we don't write that you're in conflict of interest. Those are the solutions. So if you're deputy chief volunteer you can be director of the tourist community, they wrote that, look at that relationship where you're directly in charge of that tourist community, you're not in conflict of interest. So the strongest solution I've ever read, if you're in relation to some company in town, in the municipality works for you as a municipality or city some business, and you're in charge of hiring this artist to build your house, build you up, then he just tells you to keep accounts and wonder what we've come to, by interpreting the people we've chosen in HS to deal with what's fundamental to them, to look at everything the officials give them and to determine whether there are mistakes and to warn them in time if they've done something... to give them a certain opinion. It's been as long as you want everyone in your own way. Why? Because maybe that was the easiest thing for them. This is what you are or aren't for, but it's a little harder to do. And today we're dealing with these stories again, we'd be judging for maybe because we're the strongest here, but for yes or no where I hear there are 200 cases that someone doesn't want to judge at all because they're very clear and they're not interested. Why? Because they refer to local leaders and down some small politicians you can't get a point at and send a politician in some next election. That's what's bothering us. That's why the public works, that's why maybe because it's the easiest thing to do, everything else is work in the office, you have your people to write an opinion, decide, write a record, inform someone, tell them to deliver some papers. But who's in this country then? More interested? [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] No one.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82222	Thank you very much. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82223	Dear colleague Boric, I have not heard the first minute of your debate, I will ask the same question I asked my colleague Ahmetovic. Therefore, it is the decision of the Administrative Court to reject the decision of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest at the head of the present colleague Oreskovic and where Mr Karamarko was found innocent. She is actually a colleague of Ahmetovic's said that she doubts the court's decision of administrative, and she, at least according to this, takes that everything that the commission brings is in order or is politically appropriate to her. Unfortunately, I've never heard a comment on this by HDZ, so here's your comment actually on that decision by the Administrative Court with the emphasis that I didn't listen to the first minute of your debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82224	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82225	Thank you very much, colleague Zekanovic. I think you've been listening to my argument, they've been judging because it was in space maybe, time-time, I've also said time-consuming what it means. But I'm saying, when people kill your independence in a way that makes you a politician, that's what bothers me in everything in this whole story and what you're saying is perfectly normal. In my debate, I asked that the members of the commission also enter into this law, that in some way not these things happen to us because everything is open. Here you come with the items, here you wave with the items, I've written you decisions and opinions, the courts have torn it down, but you can't convince them because they have their agendas and it can't happen in the commission. We expect them to work under the law that will pass this assembly, without opposition they are against and fight corruption in their own way, we will through this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82226	Dear Representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82227	Thank you very much, Vice President. You spoke to your colleague Boric about some of the abuses and indifferences that happened through the work of the commission so far. We also heard through discussions in HS that individual representatives in the first reading, and now in the second reading, advocated in fact the removal of the commission as such. I am interested in whether this law will make it possible for those illogical or legal gaps that have been shown so far in the functioning and operation of the commission to be filled in, or legally regulated, and that this law will allow the Commission to do its job on the one hand uninterrupted, and on the other hand officials not to be unfairly exposed to the pillar of shame and judgment without any argument being made.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82228	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82229	Thank you very much, colleague Petyr. I think that the secretary of state today was very clear in his speech, which I think was a little bit and emotional, but clearly showed what the former shortcomings of this law were and what they wanted to achieve with this, especially in the section concerning the public work, but also the implementation of these rules that were so far unarranged. And I think that would be sufficient ground for us to have what we all want, that there is a body that will deal with conflict of interest and that what I think may be most important should be, the most important task that in time if we see some situations that perhaps an official may go out of ignorance into a particular conflict that might in some way warn him. Not always at the end, but now we're gonna write you, I don't know the punishment and... And worst of all, I think what happened is that really here's what my colleague Lalovac said, you got a fine of 4,000 here we have colleagues here a few fines. Nothing, great, you can still work in all this and you're even worse than those who are not in any conflict of interest.../The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82230	Dear representative Zmaic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82231	Vice President of HS. A colleague, Boric, the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, significantly extends the responsibility of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest, and the Final Proposal of the Law that we are currently discussing is prescribed that all members of the commission must be including the President, they must be lawyers. Do you think that making decisions and giving an opinion by the commission will be more effective and fairer because it will be decided by professionals or legal professions in the commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82232	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82233	Thank you very much. I don't know what my colleague Zmaic is going to do, given what you just said in the law. What we expect more times to be said today means we expect a clear application of the law and that what is written and implemented. And not that we're all dealing exclusively with what the opposition says, that we're in that space maybe, that's the principles of action, and that's the only thing we want if there's someone the height of a minister, I don't know the Prime Minister, I don't know the Prime Minister, I don't know the Prime Minister, I don't know the MP, but we're just going to tell you something right now, and this rest of us don't care too much. I think it's clear what we want and that the procedures are much better and include more than ever. The opposition says we are fighting corruption by voting against this law and against the strategy, as well as against everything because what matters to them is important, not what you do but what the perception of what you do is, so let the citizens know.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82234	Honorable representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82235	Thank you, dear Vice President. Col. Boric, so this proposal of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, we are actually in line with the recommendations of GRECO and OECD. Now it's not clear to me here that my colleagues from the SDP are mostly saying that actually the promoter wants to euthanize, to die the commission. So what was the case in 2012 when the SDP submitted a proposal for a conformity assessment, so the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests with the Constitution, when it was abolished on the 10th provision of that law, which exclusively referred to the powers and powers of the Commission. Is that a little double-faced and a little hypocritical?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82236	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82237	Thank you very much. Comrade Habiban, why did this happen, because at that moment they realized that they were as papal as the Pope is said and that they had entered a space that would practically dissipate some situations that there was no need for you to get naked at all. Well, we remember what was going on. The then chairman of the commission was abolished was I think the public functioning itself through the removal of all property cards by officials from the network. That took 10 days. Then politicians are accused in the media that they are guilty of wanting to hide the property, not the one who made the mistake. So then there were situations to come back and that some data was not published since they were not in line with the Data Protection Act and then they went into some kind of work that looked the way we eventually evaluated it, and you see what it ended up being that these people who were the most important people at the time tried publicly today became politicians and tried you politicians.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82238	Thank you. Now, the honourable representative Goran Ivanovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82239	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, we will spend a few minutes or I will spend in my individual debate something to say about this final proposal of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. The conflict of interest is an eternal topic as long as there is a policy, there will also be a mention of conflict of interest. The debate goes, of course, like every time in the part where we talk about the essential laws that we are essentially kind of interested in and that we are mostly talking about some day policy, and then there are in the assembly and MPs sitting in multiple terms, and they remember it much more, the better chroniclers of the time in which they were, in which we worked and lived, and perhaps this forgetfulness which among politicians is very sharp and very quickly forgets what someone was doing at some historic moment, it was his fault, and then at another point or in another context of time, it becomes a certain advantage. It is not good for that there should be laws that will prevent exactly what Croatia is talking about and what the political and social public is talking about, and that is conflict of interest. Now, we've lived too long in a society with maximum convictions, and the other one is free. Or you have a house, you have a cottage, you have an apartment at sea, you have a tent, at least come back, give back the tent. We simply haven't Generationally reached that standard that we often call upon now. Shouldn't politics have already begun in selecting the staff to solve certain matters when it comes to preventing conflicts of interest. You could and you would. We can't allow someone to be appointed to anything, and we don't really know anything or very little about this candidate, so then we regret something that happened with him. Therefore, about the conflict of interest on, in general, corruption, all of this needs to be learned long ago, long before you're appointed to something. But what's the point, the essence of this law and what's being said here is that even today, and most MPs on this left have also mentioned the case of Zhaoac and some other cases, so that's good for me, means that the institutions that are in charge of implementing the defence against corruption are doing some sort of their own business. I mean to demean it in a way that some kind of European prosecutor set it off or whatever it is who started it if something happened. Thus, we lose or draw from the focus of the important thing. The conflict of interest and the prevention of conflicts of interest exists in all European democracies and so on in Croatia. He had his own amplitudes when some and even the leaders of that commission wanted to be judges and caddies and judges didn't go, it's not good, the hack is a dangerous thing. In particular, I do not know why politics often puts on itself a burden that cannot then be carried by articulously, nor can it justify it, nor can it be dealt with at the end. Therefore, awareness of the decision-making or passing of such a law on what is who and when it was working and it was good for here to have little fun for the Croatian public at 14.30, but it is not good to get out of the measure of things. Mr. Boric, Mr. Bačić, who have been here for many years in the Assembly and chronologically can follow some things they have tried to explain to the Croatian public I think very plastically, which is not good, which should be fixed and how it could be much, much better after this law. So I welcome this kind of debate, and I also think this law is a step forward, and it's not a sure step back as much as someone is trying to make it look like something like that. I believe and respect the laws of the Republic of Croatia, so this law certainly contributes to better Croatia, a better policy that will attract young people to create a better and more successful Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82240	We've got a couple of replicas. She's a real respected MP, Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82241	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Ivanovic, you have come from the assumption that everyone is well-intentioned, that everyone is moral and that everyone is law-abiding, which is where politicians should be, but we know that there are derogations in real life. In order to achieve that ideal that you were talking about, we obviously need a change of mentality, first of all, because we see in some other situations something that we would not allow when we are in a foreign country without a problem, we allow ourselves when we are in Croatia. So we need laws and obviously need independent institutions to control certain phenomena in society that unfortunately happen. So there has been debate over how the commission has worked so far and how it should function after the adoption of this law. I'm interested in your thinking whether this law will achieve this one transparency that is obviously necessary for the commission itself, but also for the officials.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82242	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82243	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Petyr. I'll start with this last one, I believe I really believe that no government, and especially not a serious government like the Government of Andrej Plenkovic, wants to pass laws that are just about to be passed here with some majority, so we're going to vote something out and say here we have some law. This law is based on what was not good, there has been an increase in the number of debtors who are subject to registration of their property cards, a series of these things that are changing in this law and are trying to strengthen this very institute of independence. Throughout history it may have been a little different, maybe it was just too much of those who were addicted to one policy, and they tried another policy, it's not good. And with this, of course, I agree with the first thing that you started this replica with. Mentality is something that the habitat of society, it doesn't change in one year, two years, One change or another by amending the law, it is a process that will last.../Speakers speak at the same time./... [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82244	The next replica is the respected representative Ankica Zmaic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82245	Col. Ivanovic, Art. 4. The law provides for a new provision that the representative bodies of the unit of local, regional (regional) self-government are obliged to adopt a code of conduct relating to members of the representative bodies and contain provisions on the prevention of conflicts of interest. You were also a member of the representative body and were the executive head of the executive body and we know that the private interest must not be in front of the public interest, so I ask you whether the code of conduct required to bring units of local, regional (regional) self-government will contribute to preventing conflicts of interest?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82246	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82247	I think all the codes that are being passed are probably brought in to show and show to every man who deals, whether it's a representative body, an executive authority or anything else to know what's expected of him. Whether or not the code written that we here in the assembly expect and work on within a week, two, three or five of this parliamentary level of communication will raise anything to that one higher level is difficult to talk about. But if we needed them for that very reason to be like some kind of anchor that everyone could then be caught for and that would eventually be an equal conjecture and a starting position for what they do or what they're going to do or what they're trying to do, and it's not according to the code that's being passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82248	The next replica is Urša Raukar Gamulin's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82249	Thank you. My colleague, you said that institutions are fighting corruption and that, as popularly said, they are doing their job. The problem of the case is that the DORH put him in a drawer and declared him dead, and more than the state's attorney lied here in HS on the case of the Ralac, but the majority still supported her report for 2020. How do you think that under such circumstances and with such institutions, and I will mention even with the inability to sanction a breach of the principle of public duty, as you think we will. that you will fight corruption? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82250	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82251	Thank you very much. There aren't in politics ours and theirs and mine, fighting corruption together, sending all of us who deal with politics as much as it's pathetic or flossicular. As far as we're concerned, why do we have this need to have all this regret, and now the case of the Grill has opened up, but now we've got a problem that he's opened up. Did Marica open it, or did Hansel go first? Well, I don't think so, I don't think so, I don't think so. Let's go, just take it easy. So it's important that the process goes, it's the key to success and progress, and now to discuss whether, I don't know the state's attorney, I've never been with that woman, I have no idea who she is, so putting those hot potatoes in our lap is a complete mistake, a wrong and a demagogue trick.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82252	The next replica is the respected representative Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82253	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Members, the proposal clearly defines the conflict of interest and what should be done on this basis. It is being observed here that we basically killed the commission because it can no longer act on the basis of decisions based on a violation of the principle. I think it would be the same, and that's how it was done, or the commission used to make decisions based on a violation of the principle, which is the same as when, in the Penal Code, it's based on some general principles that we find a thief, and we have no evidence that he stole it, and we can't even punish him. Here's what would be about the same thing. Therefore, I think that this is now as a proposal for good, we will have separate ethical codes that will develop principles and I think that in many European countries and that it works, and of course, in the law itself, principles remain, which means that all of them who are engaged in public duty call on me to base and comply with them. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82254	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82255	Thank you very much. I get what you're saying. I think that's the measure of things. Who is anyone in this country to show and to prejudge the appearance of an individual or anything, and for that there is no special evidence other than any of their own, this man who suffers terrible harm, not him, his whole family, his children, everything after what happens, who will bear any responsibility for it? And we've had cases like this in history a lot. These people today are no longer desirable people of Croatian society. What makes it possible for a person, without the judgment of the measuring body, to show and want to put on or put on a prison shirt without committing any crime, even the more it becomes, that it was totally wrong. Therefore, I believe in the laws of the Republic of Croatia and believe that the laws to be passed are for good. and those of us who do politics, as well as those who do politics. [[Intruder: Time]] who expect us to do politics in a fair way. [[Intruder: Time]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82256	Next individual debate, respected representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82257	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. A colleague who spoke before us or before me does not matter who initiated the procedure, it is important who initiated the procedure and it is very important, and it is especially important why he started it. If he started it because someone else didn't finish it or put it in a drawer, then it's even more important, so it's important. Our distinguished MPs sitting on the right side of the assembly, so members of the parliamentary majority defended the law in their presentations. They argue that the law is good, that implementation will be effective, that all EU remarks and suggestions are respected in the bill, that this law is a step forward in the fight against conflicts of interest, etc. And so on and so forth. We can safely argue that such discussions on this law are trying to convince us here in the assembly, as well as the public in the government's efforts and the ruling majority in the assembly that they will have a fair fight against conflicts of interest, but the text of the law itself says this is not the case, and even more so explain the discussions led by opposition representatives and clearly warned about the failures in the law, and especially the failures related to the compliance with the recommendations of GRECO. We are convinced that this law will surely make it difficult to put an end to those and those who have been already appalled by the decisions of the DORH, USKOK, and the Commission itself for conflict of interest, as it will make the work of the Committee for Conflict of Interest much more difficult and reduce the efficiency of this commission, while missing the opportunity to positively influence the work and performance of officials. Instead of trying to prevent conflicts of interest, trying to act preventively in this law and other laws that could prevent conflict of interest and which could at least affect the reduction of corruption if not to prevent corruption, a law is passed that prevents the effective, efficient work of the Commission for the conflict of interest. We have an increased number of taxpayers who need to present reports or cards. Does the number of debtors also follow the increased number of commission employees? I am pleased and welcome that the legislator has accepted our colleague's proposal from the Social Democrats Club that all members of the commission must be lawyers and that he has included it in the law and I think it is a small indicator of goodwill, but it would be even better if the recommendations of GRECO were respected, it would mean even more to us. The question arises with regard to the number of taxpayers whether decisions and solutions will be made in time, why is this important to us? If someone had followed and warned in time about the conflict of interest in the case of software, it might not have occurred 10 new items of software that are now slowly coming out to the surface that slowly come to the newspaper, which slowly come before us and slowly come to the public. If this virus were to stop in time and we might not have problems with the Ministry of Economy, we might not have problems with the Ministry of Health, we might be able to save some money. When no one reacts to giving their friend a job and 5 times the price of the product to be delivered, it's really worrying. So here we're not talking about an increase of 500 kuna here we're talking about an increase of 3 million kuna or something less to a total of 15 million kuna. So we're not talking about non-essential figures here, we're talking about a million and a half Euros. So there's a big problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82258	We have several replicas, the first respected representative Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82259	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear counterpart Pavić, Croatia is an EU member, I think it is a fact that has been here for 8 years, and we passed a law last summer, which is how the Office of the European State Prosecutor comes and opens its office here in Croatia. I don't see anything really controversial about it that I said in the sense that it doesn't matter. That's right. We have our own bodies, we have European bodies. If someone has noticed, and someone has not noticed, this is only proof that the system is working, that it is being implemented and that the hand of justice will eventually reach whoever has not worked in accordance with these EU laws that we are also members of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82260	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82261	I think it's an alarming situation if there's a difference of 12 million kuna on the spot, if it's noticed that someone bought hundreds and hundreds of squares of land, so it takes 2 or 3 or 5 years for this accusation to become a power of law, I think it's problematic and alarming to hear the voice of our evicted young people who are not returning to Croatia because of the great corruption. And that's what bothers them the most. Let's stop it people, let's work that way. The conflict of interest is just one step towards corruption. Look what's going on, what's going on in these objects, and look what the numbers are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82262	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82263	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Pavić, I'll talk about the form. So, we need a new Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests not to be spoken for 2 months, 3 months, it's been said for years not to say that the person who was in charge of the Ministry in the meantime has ended up, and there are no secrets, I mean the former Secretary of State, Mrs. Romec, who ended up in prison and was kicked out of HDZ and everything else. And we finally got one proposal from the Law to prevent conflicts of interest, and now that I'm talking about form, the form is next. The rulings decide to go through 2 readings and get the law in the first reading, and it seems to me that it took some time to process the remarks that a little further consult with GRECO and all together which and how, but rather quickly, between the first and second readings has passed a relatively short time, the form is satisfied, it is responsible that the remarks have not been accepted. What exactly do we want with this law? HDZ knows what they want from the start, and that's exactly what they're going to get. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82264	Well, it's not just the remarks, it's our amendments. To write good and quality amendments, we need to consult with lawyers. We need to sit together to see how many articles we need to change if we change something important. In a short time we can't do that, in two days it can't be done and there are problems. And we forget all the problems we've had because of that conflict of interest. We forget how many times there are ministers defending their position on why they gave jobs to their friends. I'm talking about information, I'm neglecting the rest. I'm just talking about IT. There was a minister behind my back screaming lies, lies, lies. Yesterday again in the paper the same news. The system's not working. So yesterday, and a few weeks ago, it was said it was a lie, and it was true. We can't work like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82265	The next replica of the esteemed representative Barbara Antolic Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82266	I'm going to ask you again what I've already reacted several times is that ethical codes are actually going to be tried in some way by those corruption affairs at local level. We won't see those ethical standards that soon. Now I would ask you, Mr. Pavic, given the experience we have with anti-corruption committees and various bodies that have already been established at the level of counties, municipalities and cities and where we have seen that there has been no knowledge of the scale and effect of these bodies because they did not have any power or space to enter the national media, so there is a lot of dirty stuff left under the carpet. I ask you, do you expect to improve such a situation as we now have with the sequence of this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82267	I want to believe it'll get better. I criticized, I said what I thought, I said a position on this law, I think we could do it much better, much better in the interest of better functioning and part of the state government and part of the local self-government because I was a member of the city council for eight years, we've been made a variety of remarks, people have been sending applications to DORH, to USKOK, but the results were almost always the same. If you've been listening to the state's attorney's report which was accepted by the majority by the way, you've heard what number of cases has been rejected. So the number of cases reported for corruption is 93% rejected and then we're surprised what's happening to us. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82268	Next individual representative Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82269	The chairman, the MPs and the MPs. I'll tell you from the HDZ ranks first of all, what you're going to tell a thousand times is not going to make that lie the truth, I won't let you down or let you do it. For the second time, there is talk of amendments to this law or the adoption of a new law in a way that my role in the commission and my legacy is controversial to HDZ, as if you have a bigger problem with me than with the law itself, so let's settle the problems in order. What's so controversial about my political engagement? What kind of people do we even want to invite to do politics? People with some kind of expertise, professional experience and integrity or someone's wrecking holes, flies, people with no names and last names, obedient to their party bosses? My lords, you have neither now in this law any provision that will prevent members of the commission from engaging in political engagement nor should it ever be disputed. It is disputed how they enter the commission, it is disputed when someone from politics enters independent regulatory bodies, as it has been disputed that you have been served by a party vessel also compromised in corruption affairs, such as Davorin Mlakar being appointed judge of the Constitutional Court, and now we are surprised at the decisions. It's been mentioned here a lot of times what my political ambition is. Well, my political ambition is to build the institutions of this state that serve the public interest and in whose work citizens can trust and such institutions during my term were the Commission for Decision on the conflict of interest, and that is what the gentlemen of the HDZ ranks have confirmed, by voting for the adoption of all my reports submitted. My political ambition is also addressed in the proposal of the Corruption Prevention Strategy, which I am still in the summer of 2019. handing it over to HS, my political ambition is the reform of the entire system, especially the system of justice and anti-corruption mechanisms. The fact that such political ambition bothers you is that you are bothered by my clear programming goals for which I am fighting in the political arena, shows what damage you are to benefit and to the interests of all honest citizens of the Republic of Croatia. My political ambition has to do with the previous function and engagement in the Committee on Conflict of Interests only as much as I have seen during these five years how we really operate the state and system inside and what is wrong with this system and how it should be changed. I have also seen how little chance that Croatia will ever become a decent, functional democracy in which the prosperity of citizens without any party ties is possible, as far as it will not be possible for us to move forward unless people like me decide to take this step, give up our own como, because I could have a much better life in the world outside of politics, if I do not agree exactly to political engagement by trying to create a political will for reforms, to improve the anti-corruption system because there is no such will now, especially among the ranks of the ruling ones. And I don't know who regrets more today that I was the chairman of the commission, Zoran Milanovic, or all the ergels of the corrupt HDZ ministers. And what are you gentlemen so contentious about? The conduct of unforgivable procedures and pardons from left to right and from right to left of the political spectrum. What decision did you make because of the misdetermined facts? What is the wrong fact about Tomislav Karamark? He's not the only one. Is it disputed that I'm HS, but I've also pointed out to the public that the law has a hole in it rather than Swiss cheese? I've submitted 22 professional amendments to this law, which unfortunately I don't have time to explain here, but I'll just say a few things. Ethics commissions and ethical bodies we have as state lawyers, we have for judges, we have for all civil servants, only for politicians there is no more. You have abolished the public session, the public decisions of the commission, that is your level of transparency that you promote within the entire system. And as for the potential conflict of interest, that is the main theme of the area of action and work and the purpose of the existence of the commission because when a potential conflict of interest becomes real, that is, corruption. And if we had a commission that really serves its purpose, which has the right tools, then there could be no case like this Tomislav Tolusic, it would not be possible for the Agriculture Payment Agency to monitor and where you were setting up leaders to generate incomes and subsidies that are now being investigated by EU bodies. Because the Croatian state does not have its own bodies [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82270	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82271	Thank you very much, Vice President. Art. In 238, there is almost no word that colleague Oreshkovic did not use to draw us the way she is experiencing us. Just a few words, colleague Oreshkovic, we are not afraid of your potential in any way. You have a problem with our potential, it's your problem, and you'll never get rid of it. And as for what you've done, they show decisions, all of which have fallen to you, and don't justify your own ignorance in a way that you say that those who know and write, which are courts, don't know their jobs. Don't do it and it's not right.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82272	Time. You're getting a warning, this was a replica. We have a replica of the respected representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82273	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear counterpart Oreskovic, the entire debate of HDZ colleagues was based on the topic that you should not sit down and deal with politics after you were led by the commission. Well, here's what I'm interested in right after your experience with your attitude. We had a director of the City of Zagreb Reconstruction Fund and two counties after the earthquake. He was elected to the competition, he was said to be the most professional man, not to be a political man, and now, as we know, he resigned to his place at the fund. Is he, is he able to deal with politics, is he allowed to deal with politics, is he supposed to be in politics at all? We have one of the freshest and most recent examples, so I'm wondering what kind of attitude the commission would be, and that's what a man behind that could go into politics? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82274	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82275	Thank you, colleague Mrak-Taritash. Well, neither the old law nor this new law, nor the commission alone would mind Mr. Vangelic being involved in politics, I don't think even Croatian citizens would mind. To decide to enter HDZ, I believe that Andrej Plenkovic would welcome him with his arms and half the HDZ on his knees. But unless it is so, anything Mr. Vangelic would want or could do in the space of politics will be challenged. As I said, the issue is this reverse situation, it is controversial when politics puts politically-used personnel into independent regulatory bodies. It is also disputed that most policies clearly consider that if, through the sole will of the parliamentary majority, someone in a single regulatory state body is chosen to owe a person obedience, loyalty or not processing, that is what is required of the USKOK, the DORH, and obviously the Commission for Decision on the conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82276	The next replica is a respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82277	Thank you very much. Comrade Oreshkovic, I think your work speaks for itself. I don't have to stress in particular what you've been doing, or how you've been doing, it's all about yourself. The commission was then a transparent body, your sessions were public, you regularly published decisions and arguments. Therefore, I would not have owed it, I would have owed it somewhere further, and I would have underlined something else because in this case it is not a dispute that the former chairman of the commission has entered politics, it is disputed that Dalia Oreshkovic has entered politics. I would experience it first of all because the one who's put on a lot of blisters obviously some have a problem brand with it, and they say that, the folk's age is that you don't take it uglyly or somehow wrong for a good horse is rising dust, so on the other hand I would see it primarily as a confirmation of your good work as president of the commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82278	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82279	Well, thank you, colleague Hajdukovic. Here's a final question or replica where I'm left unspeakable. I'd just like everyone who's going to be in any position in the regulatory bodies to live on even more blisters than I've been able to stand for myself during my entire term of office. And this is not about who would do what I want, but what tools as a legislative body we give to these institutions so that they can do their job properly. The problem with this law is that these tools are gone. Not only is there not a step up, not only is there no improvement, not only isn't there not one single newspaper, but it's the few good things that existed in the law with this new law being broken down and erased. These are not only powers, they are qualifications of members of the commission. This is the direction of the ruling president of the commission no longer needs to have a judicial exam, so that will be our future results. as if someone from the counter had come to the head of this institution. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82280	The next replica is the respected representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82281	Dear colleague, I must say that I always put a fence on anti-corruption policies and I like to stress that political economic reality is also extremely important and that we must warn about the restrictions on anti-corruption policies. I also have to say that there is no better person I would like to see in an episode of fighting corruption or against HDZ than you do. I would like to ask you what you think about why the Law on the Origin of Assets Investigation disappeared precisely in the 1990s in the robbery of conversion and privatisation, can this law be re-emerged and whether this commission can still have powers related to the tax administration, means that in some communication it has the authority to give the tax administration an indication that the examination means the origin of the property if there are any indications or doubts?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82282	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82283	Thank you, colleague Peovic. The law establishing the origin of the property was abolished in the '90s, and you know why. It is now difficult to implement it, but what can be given stronger powers and strengthen the capacity of the tax administration. What the Committee of Conflict of Interests does, what it does... and the DSV for judicial officials should in some ways be interinstitutionally linked. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] One of the amendments that I have submitted to this law is that when the Commission informs the tax administration that it is necessary to establish a discrepancy or disproportionate property of an official that the tax administration has a period of 6 months to carry out the procedure and to inform the Commission of the results of its work, and the Commission will then find the tax administration together with all the evidence and findings on its websites. In this way, it would be achieved that the commission as a preventive body strengthens the integrity and transparency of the work of officials, and the tax administration as a specialised body will determine whether any property is legally acquired.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82284	Next replica, respected representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82285	Dear MPs, sometimes we agree with the ruling majority. There was a breach of the Rules of Procedure that I have to agree with today. A HDZ colleague said we must fear their potential. We are afraid of this potential for the amount and the level of corruption, and therefore we are proposing stronger legal measures. That is why we suggest that at least respect everything GRECO has suggested and suggested, if not more sharply. That's why. And the question to you, I wanted to ask a question, I didn't read... which you wrote and handed over to the Parliament, I didn't get to it, so would you just please briefly tell us what the basic differences between your strategy and this law are? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82286	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82287	So my strategy has five chapters. First, it seeks full fiscal transparency at the level of all state authorities and all units of local and regional self-government. The second part concerns prevention, and instead of the Commission for Conflict of Interest, it seeks the Office for the Prevention of Corruption, which will analyse the databases of a whole series of public registers that are yet to be introduced. Thirdly, it changes the structure of internal control in the judiciary, so it changes the composition and powers of DSI and DOV. The fourth chapter is the reduction of the number of counties, cities and municipalities, the fifth chapter is the reform of electoral legislation. And as for this Law itself, here I have added an amendment to which the Committee is given express powers to make decisions on the violation of the principle and further, it is necessary to strengthen the system of bans, so this Law only says that 0.5, we raise ourselves to 5%, and I ask that the ban on entering into business relations not only on county, city or municipality, but on all institutions and all companies which [[Intruder: Time.]] The unit founded it. [[Intruder: Next replica.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82288	Dear representative Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82289	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. These listed few points of your strategy show why HDZ is afraid of your potential and that's true. It is exactly the same, as counterpart Boris said in his replica, and you are afraid of HDZ's potential, but that is certainly not the potential to fight corruption. He told his colleague Pavić what it was about. What I would like to hear is your opinion on a brief earlier statement by a colleague, Ivanovic, who says that the European Public Prosecutor has initiated proceedings against Zalac is proof that the system is functioning. Is that so?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82290	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82291	Yeah. When the political party that has the rightful verdict for corruption is acting in power after it has received only 16.4% support from the electoral body, it is not a legitimate authority for me, it is almost an occupation. And when such a political party regulates the anti-corruption policy of a state, that is proof that the real states are not there. The fact that our law enforcement bodies have not initiated proceedings and investigations in the case of Kalashac shows what kind of persons, what kind of leaders in the anti-corruption bodies HDZ allows and needs, are those that serve their interests. The only solution is the next parliamentary elections and greater co-operation within all clubs of opposition MPs, regardless of what side of the political spectrum the common strategic objectives of anti-corruption policy come from.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82292	Next replica, respected representative Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82293	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, Honored Representative Oreskovic. Every time I get this scared by the amount of energy you want to judge and judge without any evidence, without anything, but just so much, you say you don't like HDZ and that's legitimate, that's your right. You're talking about the fact that HDZ got 16%, so you got some votes in the mix, so none of us respect it. But it's not the measure of things. I'm not against people like you dealing with politics. Even more so, however, I am amazed by the moment when the president of the Republic of Croatia and then the Prime Minister say you are his biggest mistake, or his biggest screwup. So he had legitimacy at that moment and of all people he chose you and that after 5 years or 6 years he would conclude that it was his biggest mistake. What kind of message do we send to people like you, to deal with... That's what you're trying to convince me of what I'm asking you. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82294	I hope that I am sending a message that people like me, as many as possible, are involved in politics, which is whose fault, especially when we talk about Zoran Milanovic, let those who voted for him ask. As for the promo I went into politics with, I'd love to put my proselytes and the voices I personally received, so my name and last name in proportion to anyone, especially yours, how many votes did you get individually? Where would you be if you weren't on the list and didn't have HDZ support and ID? So what are you talking about? What's bothering you so much? And as for decisions without evidence, as I said, none of the facts are disputed. That's the value and role of the commission, that's why the commission was built as an institution, that's why you didn't even change the composition of the commission to destroy that body until the end, so now you have to use the amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82295	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82296	He's been injured. 238. Representative Oreshković is talking about something that is not subject to this item of the agenda and just for her information, I am a deputy parliamentary representative, therefore my competition was not like hers, and I am not caught on that list, I have chosen it with my engagement in politics, so don't turn the saw upside down, there is no need, I asked you a specific thing. You specifically tried to answer me, I'm with that answer of yours quite, I'm perfectly happy. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82297	Time. You get a warning because this wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, it was your replica. And the next last replica is the respected representative Barbara Antolic Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82298	Your Honor, ma'am. Nuts. You were the head of the Committee for Conflict of Interest, which according to a law that has achieved exceptional success among citizens, so you sensitized people to start thinking more critically about what appears to be corruption. The government has first ignored this existing commission so that this law would actually silence it and what do you think, now as someone who really has experience in this work, which means limiting the mandate for members of the Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82299	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82300	Well, actually, as far as limiting the mandate in a way that no one could have more than 2, that existed in the previous law, there is also in this. For me, it's a good practice, though, I think a whole series of laws should introduce that no one has to sit on one function forever. What bothers me, I'm bothered by the downsizing of the criteria and conditions for selecting the president or president of the Committee. So far, it has been necessary for the head of the institution to have passed a judicial exam, here, it is now being abolished rather than the criteria being raised in a way that requires knowledge of domestic and international professional literature and practices in the area of preventing conflicts of interest and combating corruption. So it shows itself in itself what the HDZ wants from this body. So he wants an institution that doesn't serve much of a purpose except for full administration and stamping on administratively-checked property cards.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82301	The next individual debate, a respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82302	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Speaking of institutions in which, let's put it this way under quotes, we as a legislative body have interference, and we're talking about one, it's the Commission for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, because we're passing a law on it, and since we're naming its composition, or we're choosing it, I can't pull a parallel with the institution of the attorney general or attorney, with the fact that the attorney general is actually our direct envoy and spokeswoman, however you will, in just one other area, not necessarily just corruption but human rights in general, especially human rights. And when we talk about the real protection of human rights, then our actual right to protect human rights refers to the fact that we are being treated as a state, we as a system to that same institution that we have appointed and set up to protect these human rights, so that some state's attorney, any unit of local self-government, whether a ministry or some others don't correspond for months, not to say for years, let them completely ignore, etc., let them deny access to data and now not to add up. Now, similar parallels can also be withdrawn with the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest and general commitment to fighting corruption. If we want to have a nice system on paper even though unfortunately this isn't looking well on paper, then maybe we're going in the right direction. If we want to have another, under quotes, toothless institution that's going to be a fig leaf to do something, to try to prevent corruption, but actually to do nothing, then I think we're going in the right direction. But if I want to have an institution that can really do something about it, change it, influence it, do it, then the direction is completely wrong, and I'll tell you why, and I'll tell you why this is my opinion. First of all, because this Law, and a lot of arguments have already been made, so let me not repeat them, the Commission for the conflict of interest which is otherwise treated as an anti-corruption body, will make it difficult to work, will make it completely powerless and impotent, if it summed up this Law, then here it is, summed up in this sentence. I am sorry to ignore the recommendation of GRECO from the 5th evaluation round, which states that penalties should be prescribed for unfair politicians, or those who are in conflict of interest, so we missed it as Greco recommended. Secondly, the concept of a related person is not defined by OECD standards in the way in which all relations are defined, if such as private ties, financial interests, other interests, etc., etc., which may negatively affect the performance of the duties of the official, i.e. to prevent him from being completely impartial and avoiding conflict of interest in his or her work. So, in this part of the law, there's too much understanding, at least in my opinion. And the third and perhaps most important thing is the one that makes it impossible for the Commission to work normally is that the Commission does not have the opportunity to ask for documentation from private companies, which, I think, is a pure matter of logic, makes it difficult, and in part and completely prevents the conduct of procedures or have any other tools to verify the facts and documents that they can resort to. From all of this, dear colleagues and colleagues, if I are to interpret the government's intention in accordance with the legislative proposal, it is in fact the intention to narrow down the circle of public officials' obligations and make it difficult for the Commission to make an institution without teeth or what I said is impotent, powerless, which even if it determines facts, and it will be difficult to establish them, at least under this law, to act and therefore I think that this law deserves support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82303	Two replicas, the first respected representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82304	Thank you very much, Vice President, colleague Hajdukovic. In fact, on the line you encouraged me at the time you were making a comparison with the Ombudsman, the Ombudsman, and I must remind you, therefore, of the attorney general and this commission are delivering a report on their work in the Assembly and then the Assembly has the opportunity and the right to discuss this report. At the moment the reports were delivered by the attorney general and did not argue, it was evident that something was wrong, and what we now have the case that the last report she had had had in the Assembly was to argue if I wasn't wrong, it was for 2017. So, we last report at all in this conference this, this commission didn't even have a chance to discuss in this House, it was always a question of why. It seems to me that it would have been a much better model if we had discussed the work reports, if we had seen through those reports what the commission only saw was that the problem in work and then went beyond that into the new law, but no, these reports are not being discussed. Why do you think?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82305	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82306	Thank you very much. I'd say someone's hiding something, but I'm not bad, so I won't say that. What I will argue and what I will repeat, because I am dealing with my entire political life as an institution in this House of Commons, I have always said that its report is a kind of lacmus human rights paper in Croatia in our society, which is very important to us as a legislator because then we know what we need to fix and what things in the system are not working or functioning the way they should. On the other hand, you've noticed this well, the decision-making committee's report on conflict of interest should be the same, the same lacmus paper in only one other segment, which is a conflict of interest, potential conflict of interest and corruption. So why does someone bother to discuss it so that we can see that these are possible failures and what are the problems? That's the question that will remain hanging in the air after this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82307	The next replica is the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82308	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleague Hajdukovic, here are some technical details of this law, and I'm glad you noticed that. When we talk about the definition of related persons, it is indeed high time to introduce into this law and to consider, under political connection, membership in the same political party or coalition if the coalition is still active or has been active at the relevant time that the commission is considering. What is also a big problem and a prank in this new law is an article that says the procedure is not allowed to be initiated on the basis of an anonymous application. In fact, so far, the commission has been acting on official duty or on the basis of its own knowledge if these own findings are derived from anonymous reports, and apparently this little detail of HDZ is in the way, so now such a possibility is explicitly deleted and this is a big, big damage. Namely, the point of the application is whether it is content Founded or not, not in who signed it. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82309	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82310	Thank you very much, colleague. I am like a layman in this matter absolutely, the work of the commission is not something I do in my political work, at least not concentrated and as deep as some other colleagues and colleagues, especially you, since you come from that institution. But some things just have to get stuck in your eye, that's just the way it is. And here, if it's like a layman to me, I've brought up some three main grudges, I think it's very easy for everyone else, especially those who are directed to read the proposal's intention. And the intention is not to strengthen the commission, the intention is not to make the system of preventing conflicts of interest and preventing corruption stronger than seems to be exactly the opposite. And unfortunately, I have to say that we are not perfectly in the perception of corruption above all and as far as our citizens are concerned, but I am also more afraid, I am also afraid in the EU area where some other reports and events are likely to show that we have absolutely nothing to boast about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82311	There's a final debate coming up. First final debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected representative Nikola Mažar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82312	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. Today, unfortunately, we have again witnessed a series of untruths, a series of political statements, all that every time you go with certain changes and additions or final proposals of the law, the opposition says to use this payphone for a little media attention. On the other hand, we have facts, we have indicators, we have statistics, we have what is recognized not only in the Republic but also outside the Republic of Croatia, so let me point to a few facts that we're going to make with this bill. First of all, these amendments and the final draft of the law, the existing legislative framework is in line with the international standards and recommendations of GROCO and the European Commission on the report on the rule of law. The proposal also defines the concept of private interest in line with OECD recommendations from the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and the development of an international organisation which is not yet a member of the Republic of Croatia, but continues to work in cooperation with those international organisations to prevent not only conflicts of interest but also to reduce corruption. What we could already hear, therefore, is a series of innovations, a series of measures, a series of activities that will be achieved by this bill since the expansion of the circle of debtors, from the introduction of a preventive mechanism as a declared conflict of interest, which means that the obligor will have to declare himself a potential conflict of interest and remove it in order to protect the public interest. This bill will also create a prerequisite for the Commission's procedures to be faster, more efficient and more transparent and, instead of three steps, to include the launch of procedures and decisions on whether or not there is a conflict of interest or one step less. The property cards of the debtor will be submitted once a year to ensure more quality transparency of the officials and control of their assets. We've heard that the law also tightens the penalties for breach of provisions, so the commission will be at a minimum penalty of $4,000, and not like so far 2,000, while it will remain at a maximum of $40,000. The paper is that the commission will be able to give sanctions to a debtor who has not supplied the requested information. The Commission will also be able to impose an administrative and monetary penalty, in line with the principle of proportionality, which also respects GRECO's recommendations and respects one of the fundamental constitutional principles. It is important to point out once again that the article that regulates the principles of action remains also in this new legal version, but should take into account the practice of administrative courts, the High Administrative Court and the decision of the Constitutional Court which said that the general legal principles should be applied by connecting them with another breach of the law. The new legislative solution also extends the cooling period after the term of office from 12 to 18 months in which bonds will not be appointed to management functions in companies with which they have been or have been supervised. All newspapers adopted by the final draft of the law by the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest shall be strengthened as an independent body in three ways. By extending their competence, strengthening their capacities and improving the procedures they lead. For all of these reasons, the Commission remains and becomes an independent anti-corruption body with extended competences, extended addresses and new mechanisms to prevent potential conflicts of interest and conflicts of interest. And here I have to agree with my colleague Oreshkovic that 1,000 times the lies told will not become true. And that is why we heard here and that there will be 400,000 unemployed in the Republic of Croatia, that the economy will fall, that there will be no tourist season, that we will have all black, all negative, and now we live in the Republic of Croatia that has the highest credit rating in history, which has GDP growth in the third quarter of 15.8%, so the largest in 30 years, 3 times the EU's average. We live in the Republic of Croatia where the minimum wage increases to HRK 3,750 or more than 10%, where pensions are increased, where employment is increased and where we are all fighting corruption together, and we will also see this in the GRECO report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82313	The next final debate on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82314	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow MPs and MPs, I have submitted 22 amendments to this bill based on some knowledge and experience from practice. I must say that part of these amendments also stems from what the Commission has already referred to the resolution ministry as its proposals in 2017 and is indeed a humiliating and devastating fact that even that small part of the technical improvements did not have the will to adopt this authority. How through these few minutes I can't run through the 20-page text I'm only going to try to make a few major points clear to you now. So, first of all, I ask or suggest that the name of the body itself be changed, this is no longer a commission, this is a permanent and independent professional state body, so I think a much more appropriate name would be the Office for the Prevention of Corruption. Furthermore, I have complemented the definition of conflict of interest and explained that this is any situation where, from the perspective of an external observer, there may be doubts about the impartiality and objectivity of decision-making and decision-making. Therefore, this would clarify what is actually required by the Commission, as well as the Office for the Prevention of Corruption, to notice. So, in time, to see where these not only corruption risks are, but risks to the decline of citizens' confidence in the real motives of making certain decisions. Furthermore, when we talk about who should be an official, these are all the main functions in any body that established any level of whether state or local or regional authorities or any other body. For example, if the state establishes a company, so the company does not yet know what is not, so anything financed or derived from public budgets, public resources, public authorities must be subject to the verification of such a preventive body. When we talk about what is considered a business or so, it should be any acquisition of any means or form of assistance from any public authority and thus state support in the event of natural disasters, which is kept in the law as an exception. When we talk about who all related persons are, they should indeed be members of political parties or coalitions if they were still in force at the relevant time. I've completed the provisions on the so-called so-called. ethical codes or I say that to rules or rules on the prevention of conflicts of interest which should be adopted or adopted at regional and local level under the new law. I suggested that such ethical codes should include, as well as that, on the draft of such an act, the Office for the Prevention of Corruption or the current Commission should give its positive or negative opinion, in so far as it is considered that such an ethical code or regulation on the prevention of conflicts of interest has not even been adopted. I added a provision which explicitly gives the Commission the authority to make declarative decisions on infringements of the principle because ultimately this shows consistency, given that we have the same possibility for both state lawyers and judges and for all state and public officials. It is truly extremely inappropriate that only politicians are spared from establishing violations of ethical principles of action. I've also returned what HDZ from the law is moving, and that's the Institute of Opinions. So one of the bigger nonsense in this bill is that now the Institute of Opinion means that politicians de facto ask the Commission if something is in line with the provisions of the law. So I think the answer should be read the sun you brightly as they read and all ordinary citizens of any regulation that applies to them, and a possible doubt can only be as it has been until now, that officials are asking for an opinion on whether something is in line with ethical principles of action. In fact, it won't be prescribed anywhere in the law, here's an example from practice, that you can't borrow... I'd like to take my own ministry and go skiing with them in private. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's something that belongs to ethical principles, to some deontology, to standards of public duty. Also, [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82315	The next final debate on behalf of the Green-left bloc advocate, Urša Raukar-Gamulin, was held.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82316	Thank you. Therefore, this proposal for a Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest is clear that the legislator and the Government of the Republic of Croatia have no intention of dealing with corruption in the Republic of Croatia. We'll, like the Green-Left Block Club, also file no amendments to this law which, for example, the use of public money or public property for party purposes should be prevented. The example is the travel of Andrej Plenkovic, HDZ president and party delegation to a state account at a party meeting in Helsinki for which the Commission requested documentation, but Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic refused to deliver it without consequences, however. He wished then that the Commission would be prevented from deciding to violate the principle of public duty. What he wanted, it's, I see, and he got. Then we will seek the introduction of the property of adult children and parents into the bond’s property card because this is a way in which it could clearly be followed by a potentially disproportionate increase in the property of children or parents because we will not be able to close our eyes so firmly in front of the fact that a commission that is paid to children or, for example, is easily agreed. during the night construction.../incomprehensible/...this, agricultural land turns into construction land and thus, of course, gets and acquires enormous profits from the entire family. I guess we all remember, for example, the mother of Nadan Vidosevic, who, by the way, still has the process and he almost slowly falls into oblivion and so much about the efficiency of the judiciary. So, Mrs. Schneider. who in the late years became an entrepreneur and owner of yachts, fairies, houses and one large firm, and no one can say that just through adult children and parents can in any way hide illegally acquired property in the time of public behaviour. Yes, the IRS should control and examine the disproportionateness of assets with income, but as we can see, it is another in a series of institutions that unfortunately do not do their job too often and do not disclose such work. Speaking of the IRS, we've also asked by amendment to the Commission's inquiry on the disproportionateness of property and... The income of an individual obligor, the Tax Administration must demonstrate within 15 days because if there is no deadline, it is clear that this indication can be delayed indefinitely, as is the case. and the process mentioned above by Nadan Vidosevic, who, behold, is a little difficult. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And finally, we will repeat, here, for the hundredth time, together with colleagues and colleagues from the opposition, not accepting the recommendations of GRECO to strengthen the art. 6 By allowing sanctions to be imposed on those who violate it, it is devastating for the ideas of the Commission's action to prevent conflicts of interest. For the Croatian public, it is again important to repeat the principles of art. 6. Bonds in the conduct of public duties must act in an honorable, fair, conscientious, responsible and impartial manner. Keeping their own credibility and dignity entrusted to them and citizens' trust. The staunch refusal of HDZ to allow for sanctioning violations of these principles clearly and unequivocally indicates that there is no real will in the fight against corruption. Anyway, this law is like saying, just keep going, nobody can do anything to us. Now we will also disable the Committee for Conflict of Interest in its action and make it harmless and almost unnecessary. This bill, which your compact majority will vote on Wednesday, will only be a few more papers, and corruption will continue its devastating savagery in our society now and with the help of the weak and minor. Well done. I guess that's the zero tolerance in the fight against corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82317	The latest final debate on behalf of the HSS and RF MPs club, the respected representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82318	Here are some things I haven't arrived at in an individual debate, and I would like to present briefly the four amendments that I have submitted to this Law, so the first thing is something that my colleague Andreja Maric warned about. It is therefore necessary to extend this Law to the directors of health institutions, but it is necessary to put it there and, the deputy directors, assistant directors, head of clinics, head of clinical institutions and heads of institutions and other health institutions to which the founder of the Republic or unit of local and regional (regional) self-government means that it is extremely important in the pandemic year to prevent that outsourced means that the public is taking place for the benefit of the private, where many doctors use public institutions as some of their incubators from which they spend and the resources and take over patients. The other thing is something that he warned the Green-Left Block about, so it really takes the property card to be related and to include children, means adult children, given the familiar situation in which officials, i.e. bonds, resolve their assets and act as poor people, and we don't see the origin of the property. The third amendment is related to what I think may be most important, which is that the tax administration should be obliged to initiate the process of examining the origin of the property at the request of the commission. So the task that many have also pointed out to the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest is not only the collection of data but also the launch of procedures, the procedures of the commission. So the commission must have the authority to order the tax administration to investigate it. As I have said in the last debate, it is not the object of the property card that the public acquires insight into something owned by an official or an official but to determine whether there is a disproportionateness in the property, especially after the official terminates his term of office. Without it, it doesn't make too much sense to this commission. And the Fourth Amendment, I really think it's dangerous in our laws, which is the lawlessness that happens in almost every other law. So we're legal here if this law passes, and I guess it wants those who are an apparent conflict of interest and who declare their conflict of interest to be resolved within 60 days of their entry into service. It's actually illegal lawlessness. I think it's going to be very interesting to see some situations, especially regarding the director, the election of the head director of HRT, so we've been having a debate here, it's exactly the case where he declared that he's in conflict of interest, but, and it's showing here, look at his colleagues and colleagues, so now this law is legal. It means that it was illegal when the director handed over his evidence of conflict of interest and was chosen anyway. So this is now being patched up and solved by the situation. I say it's gonna be interesting, we had another case with HER, so the proposed new member whose husband was sitting in the three supervisory boards of HEP's daughters' companies. I welcome that, following these amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, this law also extends to the Director or Director of the Croatian Deposit Insurance Agency. Director Marija Hrebac has been head of the agency since 2012 and it will be very interesting to see her property card, she has been appointed by the SDP government and she is at that term for 4 years. It's quite amazing, at that term of four years, it's quite amazing that she manages the agency as many as 3 mandates. 3 term of office means from 2016. By the way, Marija Hrebac is being punished for conflict of interest due to incompatible functions of members of the supervisory boards of the Croatian Bank and Sunny Hvar. In the monitoring board of Sunny Hvar, Orko Group appointed her to lead the arbitration process against the government of the Republic of Croatia for compensation. She was in the Supervisory Board as director of the means of the agency until she was forced to resign after a conflict of interest was found. So ex-employees warned about this situation. It'll be interesting to see what's going on here. And lastly, I have to say that we should always be a little skeptical about reaching anti-corruption policies just to consider that the perception of corruption is one thing but having a Međimurje mayor who is elected means no matter what corruption is confirmed to him, the perception of corruption is a tricky thing means political economy. That is, economic relations still rule society. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82319	We've exhausted the full debate with this. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. The next item of the agenda is: - Final proposal of the Law on the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, second reading, P.Z. No 160 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172, in conjunction with Article 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Secretary of State Natasha Mikush Zigman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82453	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honored MPs and MPs, here you have the Final Proposal for the Law on the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. Let me briefly highlight the main objective and the main elements of this final proposal. We know that the Law on the Croatian Chamber of Commerce dates back to '91. in the years and during its 30-year application, many market circumstances have indeed changed and therefore changes in the chamber system and adaptation to such new market circumstances and trends are necessary. The main goal that we want to achieve by adopting this law is to increase the engagement of HGK's proactive and quality. And also encourage its transformation into an efficient service that is turned to economies. The chamber is a professional business organization of economic operators. It is set up according to the territorial principle of county chambers with the possibility of establishing representative offices and offices abroad with the consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It can also establish mixed chambers with foreign persons based in the country or abroad. The membership in the chamber shall remain mandatory under this proposal and shall be members of legal persons who carry out economic activity based in the Republic of Croatia. The obligations arising from membership in the chamber must be proportionate to their economic strength and shall be determined by grouping by the amount of the total asset, by the amount of income and by the average number of workers during the financial year contained in the annual financial report of the chamber member. In accordance with the proposed classification model, members would be classified as 3 groups. The first group includes members of the chamber that do not exceed 2 out of 3 following criteria, the total assets of 7.5 million kuna, the total revenues of 15 million and the number of employees of 50. The second group includes members of the chamber crossing 2 of the above-mentioned 3 criteria but does not exceed 2 of the following 3 criteria, the assets of 30 million kuna, the revenues of 60 million and the number of employees of 250. The third group shall comprise members of the chamber who exceed two of the three criteria of the second group. The members of the group shall be assigned each year on the basis of the information contained in the annual financial reports and the level of membership for each group of chamber members shall be determined by special decision. In view of the dissatisfaction of the members, and we are primarily talking about micro and small enterprises here, we have decided on a model that the first group of members, which is the most numerous and which includes 96% of all members, is free of payment of the membership fee. Those companies which are compulsory or who are willing to pay membership shall exercise representativeness through participation in the management bodies of the chamber, which shall be the assembly, board of directors and supervisory board. In addition to the fees of income or resources necessary for the operation of the chamber, the fees resulting from the exercise of their own activities, proceeds from assets and other exceptional incomes such as gifts, sponsorships, donations, etc. We believe that this proposed legislative solution will stimulate and modernise the chamber system, offer new services that will attract new membership or motivate old members to retain membership. It also encourages the chamber to design a range of new services for the benefit of its members and should in fact affect further recognition of the chamber in the business world. We also believe that such a legal solution ensures the viability of the chamber system and aims to preserve what the HGK and acquired in terms of tradition as one of the oldest and most influential professional business organisations. The first reading accepted the comments and proposals of the Committee on Legislatives, which are of nootechnic character. I would also point out in the end that the e-Advisership which, before sending this bill to the first reading, was carried out during the five-day period, was extended, i.e. the legislative proposal we referred to another public consultation for the period from 5 to 30 October, thus meeting the legal standard of the Law on the right to access information. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82454	We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Nikola Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82455	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear Proposer. As you said before us today is the second reading of the final proposal of the HGK Act, we have seen that in some ways in the media what was always in the first plan is the membership fee or the obligation to pay the membership fee. We have now heard from you that this one reorganisation in paying membership fees through groups and that essentially the first group that includes the most entrepreneurs and your users will be freed from payments of that membership fee, specifically over 95%. Can you tell if, by removing the membership fee, some rights so far for these users or whether they will still be able to use all the rights as they have so far and what does it mean to use specific rights that certain individuals in that group might want to use? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82456	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82457	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazhar. The rights are not denied in any way because all members of the chamber will continue to have the right to use the services provided by the chamber, but for members who pay the fees, these rights or services will be subject to somewhat more favourable conditions than those who will not pay the membership fee which, I stress again is voluntary for 96% of the companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82458	The next replica is the respected representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82459	Respected, in fact, the biggest remark was not only on mandatory membership but actually on mandatory membership, so here this law remains a mandatory membership, and then the membership is divided by categories, and for the first category, the obligation to pay memberships by saying in transitional provisions that those who do not want to pay must do so in a sentence and say it within 30 days. So, is there any intention and will you work to actually abolish mandatory membership in the chamber, and not just membership fees? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82460	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82461	Thank you very much, Commissioner Puljak. The removal of membership itself in the chamber is not subject to this regulation because membership in the chamber wants to ensure the representativeness of the chamber in the sense that it does contain, or that all members, all the shareholders are members of the chamber and in such a way that it can provide appropriate institutional support to its members through, for example, proposing amendments or adoption of certain regulations or other topics on which they are discussed on a daily basis with the authorities. 30 days have a deadline for those members who wish to join membership or to pay membership fees, which means that, in general, all who, members of the first group, will not be sent payments, but if they apply within 30 days to pay membership fees, they will also pay the membership fee.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82462	Next replica respected representative Nadica DReven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82463	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The adoption of a new legal framework is a function of increasing the engagement of the proactivity and quality of the chamber and transforming it into an effective efficient service facing the economies. The Chamber shall exercise a number of public powers conferred on specific regulations, e.g. The issue of certificates accompanying goods on export-exports, the distribution of licences for carrying out international road and freight traffic, the entry of data, the release... used for simplification and temporary import-exports here is one example, I recently heard or read somewhere one of our musicians had problems entering another country so he took advantage of it even on the weekend of Saturday evening that they solved his problem of entry or not his but his instruments to another country, so I wonder if because of all these services public powers you have more costs or profits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82464	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82465	Thank you very much for asking. We believe that this is an optimal way to exercise those public powers transferred to the HGK for reasons that in some cases state authorities do not have sufficient capacity to exercise these powers or what seems much more important to me, so the chamber is much closer to the entrepreneurs through its county organisations, and in this way it is possible to make it more effective and faster in direct contact with these services.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82466	The next replica honours MP Majda Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82467	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State Mikush Zigman, I think it is important to stress that the adoption of the new HGK Act actually continues the process of transforming and modernising the chamber. I also think it is important to stress that this law does not abolish membership but membership for almost 97% of the members, which is around 33,000 if I am not wrong with business entities. And what I consider particularly important is the importance of a permanent arbitration tribunal operating in the chamber since 1854, and I believe that it should be particularly promoted amongst the owners and entrepreneurs because of all the benefits it brings. Since this is an effective alternative way of resolving disputes and what is most important is that arbitration In fact, it guarantees a quick end to the dispute. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82468	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82469	Thank you very much, Agent Buric. I would certainly agree with what you have pointed out and further stated that 1,070 arbitration cases have been decided on since the founding of the court to date. 135 arbitration decisions have been made in the last five years. And what is most important is to say that it is the arbitration process of alternative dispute settlement between largely economic operators that is taking place significantly shorter compared to regular court proceedings. So, on average, depending on the complexity of the case, decisions are made over a period of year, sometimes 2 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82470	Next replica, respected representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82471	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, the Honorable Vice-President of the Assembly, and somehow in the debate we had in our first reading on the side of the opposition, the point was that we didn't really need a chamber. And I think exactly the opposite. We need, it has its own meaning, it has its own tradition at the end of 140 years of tradition that came from Austria, which certainly appreciates its chamber enough to talk about it. And how many chambers it takes is enough talking and a recent visit to Ukraine, which together with the HGK Prime Minister, organised a visit where we have concrete results, congratulations and President Burilovic on this and investment on both sides. Now we have added 97% will not pay membership fees, 120 million EU projects have, many fairs, here are the education of 22,000 people only this year have been educated. So there's no saying that the chamber doesn't make sense and we still need to put the wind in the back that It works better and better. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82472	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82473	Thank you very much, Mr. Pavić. I agree, of course, with what you have pointed out, and I would only further underline that our chamber is based on examples of some other countries we like to compare with, such as Austria, such as Germany or France, where it is also mandatory membership in the chamber and it is mandatory and membership. However, in that part, we are rightly guided by the fact that most micro and small entrepreneurs have pointed out, so we went to this solution that puts the first group of entrepreneurs in a position to choose voluntarily whether they want to be members of the chamber or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82474	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82475	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The Honorable State Secretarys of this new bill aims to modernise the chamber system, provide entrepreneurs with the best service of course that we all welcome here today and have already both predecessors and you stressed that the HGK has a long-standing tradition and it is an important organisation that represents, promotes and coordinates the common interests of its members. How soon after the adoption of this law will it be possible to transform and how much better this law will be done here, I especially think about county chambers where very few people are doing one big job and I sincerely hope that this perception by one part of the public after the adoption of this law and transformation will certainly change.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82476	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82477	Thank you very much. So we think that this is a good solution in which the chamber itself will be encouraged to operate on the market or to offer additional services and products to our entrepreneurs and that it will certainly help to modernise the work of the chamber. And here's if you let me just a little correction from the previous I said that small and medium-sized enterprises can choose and be members of the chamber, they can choose to pay membership or not on a voluntary basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82478	The next replica honours MP Ankica Zmaic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82479	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected secretary of state, the digital chamber project is a project co-financed by EU funds, which has been operational since last year. So can you tell me what kind of work the digital chamber is doing and how many members are there?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82480	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82481	Thank you very much for your question. The digital chamber has over 500 members, so in electronic form it enables members of the chamber so information about the legal system, the tax system, also allows for the provision of information on the EU funds available to our entrepreneurs, can help to provide advisory services. In relation to the collection of all business information on foreign markets, which possibly, for which entrepreneurs may have a need and indeed proved to be a quality service to those who used it and to all members who pay membership fees, this Digital Chamber is therefore free of charge.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82482	Next replica, respected representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82483	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, the Secretary of State. Well, it is often forgotten in public that the Chamber is set up by territorial principle and that the county chambers are very strong and powerful components of precisely the Chamber of Commerce that even have a longer tradition than this roof chamber, such an example, here, and my chamber in Zadar that has a tradition from the Chamber of Commerce for over 200 years. What is most important is to say that the Chamber itself, despite the fact that it is possible not to pay the first group of memberships, that the Chamber is still providing a quality service, the one that is expected, and certainly having important functions, here, that is, I think, the key to and this passing of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82484	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82485	Thank you very much, Representative Peric. Certainly, therefore, it is one of the advantages of the Chamber that it has representation at the county level and which, as I said before, is closer to the entrepreneurs compared to the situation it would have, of course, only one seat. A good example, I think, of the work of the Chamber is exactly one of the most recognizable actions in "Let's Buy Croatian" which has been implemented since '97. to this day and through which the general public has recognized therefore the benefits of such action, where through one survey, therefore a public opinion survey of as many as 78% of our consumers expressed their willingness to pay the product more if they pay, i.e. buying a domestic product, and certainly this is one synergy effect, i.e. action from the centre, but also the county representations of HGK.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82486	Next replica, the esteemed representative of Dario Hrebak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82487	Dear Secretary of State, after 30 years of finally reforming the HGK and we believe in HSLS that this is a very important message, especially as the HSLS has been insisting for the last 20 years on the need to reform the Chamber, especially in light of what has been happening to the Chamber for the last few years with regard to corruption itself. However, even if we wanted to, we would support an initiative that came out of the opposition, but we do not aim to tear down this country's institutions and therefore welcome this legislative proposal that 90 and, almost 7% of entrepreneurs will be able to determine whether they want to pay membership fees, and thus we will force the Chamber to reform and change. However, given that it is not the goal of destroying the institutions in HSLS, I am interested in whether we already know some plan as to how the HGK will be reformed in the next period, which are measures, whether it is digitisation, whether these are some things that will then have to be adapted to the market in order to continue to survive as an institution because I think it is very much needed by the Croatian economy, but in a significantly reformed form.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82488	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82489	Thank you very much, counsel. This is exactly what you pointed out yourself, so one balance between reducing the fiscal burden so on primary small businesses, and on the other hand, preserving and respecting the tradition and institution that has indeed been performing its function for 140 years, was also the thought of a guide in terms of reconstruction and reorganization of the work of the Chamber itself. What she will be working on in the coming time, and what she will put emphasis on are further digitisation, it is certainly necessary, I think that the pandemic through this past time has shown how much we should actually turn towards digitisation, but also, she will design a single range of new products, new services, taking into account, of course, the needs of the economy, above all, and I think that a strong emphasis should be placed on encouraging exports.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82490	Next replica, the esteemed representative of Gary Cappelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82491	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State. The HGK therefore consists of a number of sectors and departments. I would turn to myself, I would refer to the part about tourism, tourism and always from experience, before I wondered what they were talking about and what they were looking at when there was both a tourist community and other institutions, but in time I saw that the very entry into concrete so through the action of them, let's say, to the community, all those who have the possibility of dealing with private accommodation, were able to gather, let's say, annually, for about two to three thousand years, and educate those people who are dependent on tourism in the Republic because there are as many as 600 thousand beds. In the end I would just say, also, I am for a transitional period, for adjustment, because here's the information that I see warring there with various data, it's a digital chamber, As far as I can see, the number of 55,000 members. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82492	Answer [[Intruder: Here, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82493	Thank you very much, counsel Cappelli. Certainly, the tourism department in HGK acts complementaryly to the Croatian tourist community. It is, of course, related to these issues from the aspect of business operators active in tourism and fostering, among other things, participation in economic, or tourism fairs. As examples can highlight performances at fairs of organisations or companies dealing with health tourism, companies dealing with, for example, forms of luxury tourism, then the organization of HGK Nautical Days, promotion, I mentioned earlier, so let's buy a Croatian, Buy Croatian campaign, a special segment is just going to network domestic hotelers and other service providers with domestic producers just to promote Croatian product in the tourist offer, so that this department certainly has added value to what it already does to HTZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82494	Next replica, respected representative Anamarija Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82495	Thank you very much, dear secretary of state. One of the tasks of the HGK is to establish representations and offices abroad with the consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. There has been a lot of controversy and debate on whether these representations are actually needed when diplomacy already exists in those foreign countries. The most debates I think triggered the opening of the Shanghai representation opened in 2017 by the HGK. Can you maybe introduce us to whether the Croatian businessmen and the Croatian economy of the Benefit of the Office, or what is the situation with exports to the country today after the establishment of a representative office in Shanghai? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82496	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82497	I can certainly thank you for that question. It is true that there is an Office in Shanghai and it actually works complementarily in what it does, especially in our Embassy in China. In fact, the activities of the Shanghai Office include the support of companies through re-participation, therefore, at fairs held there in China, then the verification of Chinese partners, export and import procedures, etc., and what seems to me to be important is that just from the day of the establishment of the Shanghai Office, since 2018, even 73.9% of Chinese investments, the total number of Chinese investments made in Croatia, 73.9% of them have been achieved since the day that the Office was actually established. It means he's actually... Incomprehensible/... [[Intruder:...]] Time./... through those figures shows its effectiveness. [[Intruder: Next replica.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82498	Next replica, Honorable Representative Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82499	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. State Secretary, I agree with your finding that this measure to abolish membership for the first group of HGK members will encourage the HGK to further reorganise and to trace what the colleague has asked, I would remind you that in 2017, an agreement was signed between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the HGK, which, for example, was signed. HGK can use the Ministry of Foreign Affairs infrastructure, send to our embassy perhaps employees from HGK who will receive adequate diplomatic calling, but thus work for Croatian companies without duplicating resources and thus further reorganise the work of HGK and what is more important, to provide a better service with less resources and thus really improve the work of HGK.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82500	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82501	... some countries and benefits, but of course it depends on the size of the market and the size of the country we're talking about. [[Specially enabled.]] So here it went to the variant to open a special office in Shanghai, therefore not in the capital of China, but in another location and what I would like to add in particular is that members, in fact, have sometimes the possibility of making a direct contact with partners in China and thus also realising the interest of the economy in a different way because it is a different institutional framework in which they can act in relation to the classical diplomatic representation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82502	Next replica, respected representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82503	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, as you said, the HGK should be a lever for the development and well-being of the economy and their holders. This bill abolishes the obligation to pay membership fees for all those in the first group, so-called small. As far as tourism is concerned, according to the final figures of 16,481 members, almost 99% are small. They just belong to this first group. Even. The Association of Tourist Shipmen has no one from the group of two and three, which means all 463 shipmen belong to this first group. Tell me, what can they expect on the assumption that, for example, All 463 decide not to pay membership fees? Then who will represent their interests in HGK? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82504	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82505	The esteemed representatives of Juričev-Martinchev, thank you for asking. They can expect the Chamber to continue to represent their interests, so they will continue to be members of the Chamber and the Chamber will certainly take care of all their members. The benefits that members who pay the membership fee have additionally is that under slightly more favourable fiscal conditions they can access the use of services provided by the Chamber, however, this does not mean that these services are not available to those members who will not choose to pay the membership fees.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82506	The next replica, respected representative Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82507	Dear Secretary of State, this is a talk from, at least on the part of some MPs that it's a reform of the HGK. In fact, it is a reduction in the income of the HGK because any reform involves either reducing or introducing measures to reduce revenues, and then we would know what measures are under the HGK organisation, or we would have some measures to improve the services of the Chamber of Commerce, but we don't even know what kind of improvement of the services will be. Since income cuts are expected, you estimate them, 60 million kuna, according to the account would be 69.2 million kuna, I am interested in where this will be saved on the cost side of the HGK, given that spending in HGK in 70% of the amount is related to the costs for workers and expenses for services, such as services, other services, millions and 200 thousand kuna or, say, web repair and maintenance, millions of kuna. I'm interested in concrete figures, concrete measures, if this is about reform. If not, it's just a cut in income. [[/Intruder: Time. Answer.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82508	Thank you very much, MP Ahmetovic, for asking. I cannot agree that reducing income does not mean reform, I think it does, and that it will certainly encourage the HGK to offer a wider range of its services to the economy in a way that these products are even more adequate to what the economies are looking for. The Chamber has already implemented a certain reorganisation in such a way that it has significantly reduced the number of its employees and I believe that this trail will continue to be done, and the chamber assembly, which is actually made up by the economics, will certainly decide on what is the most optimal, which are the most optimal measures that will be implemented by the end and these reform processes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82509	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82510	Thank you very much. Dear State Secretarys, I will return to the provision of Article 39, because it is absolutely clear, membership in the chamber remains mandatory, and the subject is paying membership fees. This, it clearly states, members of the first group chamber who use the possibility of membership without payment of membership fees shall be obliged to enter into force within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this law. I read that those who do not pay membership fees are due within 30 days to declare that they will not, and those who decide to pay membership will say that they will. That means everyone is due within 30 days to make a statement. I understand your response to the distinguished representative Puljak that there will be only obligations for those who will continue to pay membership fees, and those who do not want to go automatism, but it does not say so. It says otherwise to you, therefore, that saying must be clear because it tells you about it, therefore, both the one and the other possibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82511	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82512	Thank you very much for asking. If I were you, I'd repeat exactly what I said in response to the previous line. And that is that, as a fundamental rule, small ones belonging to the first group of entrepreneurs are not obliged to pay membership fees, and all those who will choose such a model to pay membership fees will have to be declared within 30 days of what is stated in Article 39.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82513	The next replica is the respected representative Vesna Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82514	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State of State shall be made very clear to the extent that membership in the chamber is mandatory for all legal persons carrying out economic activity based in the Republic of Croatia. There's no talking about any volunteering, I can just choose whether or not it's going to be one category, whether it's going to be a membership fee. Accordingly, revenue is reduced by more than 60 million kunas that must be compensated somewhere. Article 31 makes it very clear that the Chamber Assembly will decide each year on the level of membership. Does this mean that for those who have to pay the membership fee, and the services that are subsequently defined in Article 32, whether the price of these services will increase for service users? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82515	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82516	Thank you very much for asking. Once again, I would just point out the difference between mandatory membership and mandatory membership. What is regulated by this regulation is the possibility of voluntary membership for the first group of chamber members. Yes, the chamber assembly will decide on the level of membership for individual groups, so the first, second and third groups. It is also possible for those who do not choose to pay a membership fee that the price of services in relation to current prices or, of course, now, some services can also be obtained free of charge, and it is possible that these prices will then be either slightly higher or of course they will have to be paid in relation to the present situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82517	The last replica, the esteemed representative Barbara Antolic Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82518	Respected State Secretary, the Varazdin County has been declared one of the most competitive counties. The HGK is certainly responsible for this, especially in the past term when led by Mr Cesarec. In particular, I would like to highlight his role in this and help the economy that the chamber provided. However, if and when it is reduced, the reduced resources will affect whether those county chambers get, which are successful, which are needed to get much less funds and provide much less services, and thus actually all is expensive as a good system to collapse.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82519	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82520	Thank you very much for asking. So I can't talk about the distribution of funds between individual county chambers right now. Certainly, the level of their income also depends on the number of members who decide to pay voluntary membership. However, we do not expect by this model that the level of services that the chamber will provide will be reduced, but we do think that exactly the way this bill is conceived is guided by the fact that the quality of the chamber service actually improves and increases.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82521	Here, we thank the secretary of state, with this depletion all the replicas. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, then I open the debate, first, the first registered club is a representative of Croatian sovereigns whose name will be addressed here by the distinguished representative Vesna Vucilović.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82522	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, allow me at the beginning of the presentation, let's just remind ourselves why we are even discussing this bill today. Namely, when the Covid-19 virus appeared in the first wave, it started to fight this unfortunate virus proven and verified methods back there in the 14th century or so. The work was banned by quarantine and numerous activities. Entrepreneurs set out to organize themselves, and that is how the Association's voice became. Through this association, entrepreneurs expressed their dissatisfaction and frustration with this emerging situation, and soon they began to talk about some other problems that cause them problems and which, in their opinion, are extremely important for their business, and the topic of membership in HGK was imposed in public space. Afterwards, a candidate in the local campaign elections went with an initiative in HS to abolish mandatory membership in the chamber, so somehow there was little missing and that the ruling coalition changed there a little bit, that part of the solution might be attached, but as usual there was some compromise solution and here we are, so today we have this proposal of the final law on HGK ahead of us. What I'm going to point out, and I've already said it many times, and that's the fact that our state apparatus is simply too big, too big and too expensive, and is too much of a burden on our entrepreneurs through a number of accusations. Regardless of several rounds of tax reform that our entrepreneurs have released, but these have been these horizontal discharges, which are actually related to everything, there is still a whole series of these parafiscal commitments, and we have often committed ourselves to a number of institutions, and even with the introduction of the euro, Minister Maric and Governor Vujčić signed a letter of intent that also points out that this significant number of parafiscal commitments will be reduced. The membership of HGK is in principle controversial for several reasons. The first is this fundamental principle of volunteering which simply does not exist in this imposition, and even with this bill again here is what I said in the replica means art. 4th century 1 is very clear, membership is mandatory for all legal entities, there is no talk of volunteering for anyone and in principle we all who lived in that system there 90 years ago somewhat reminds us of those times and we know that then memberships in some organizations were mandatory, you existed at a certain age as a pioneer, and at a certain age a youth, etc. You've never even signed an access card, but by way of a working relationship, you've become a member of the union. So all the companies or working organizations that were then called members of the chamber, and that's what we have left until today, and we can say that it's kind of a perception actually as a South-Communist relic of some of the past times, and part of our entrepreneurs is, of course, controversial, it doesn't need to be too highlighted. Moreover, what they point out are also a number of entrepreneurs who have never consumed services. So they charge something, they pay membership fees, and they think they're paying for something, and they don't use it, and of course they don't like it and they don't like it. The reason for this is more the fact that here is the State Secretary has highlighted some countries where membership is mandatory, but we have neighbouring Slovenia where membership is not mandatory but on a voluntary basis. And I have already repeatedly in these debates in the chamber pointed out that my experience while working for over 20 years in a chamber economy is generally positive, but I have always worked in large systems and probably benefits that big companies, medium size companies and these small chambers are not just the same. And I personally think that the chamber would definitely not be at a loss in the long term if that membership were on a voluntary basis. It seems like a big step at the moment, but he's inevitable and I hope this is just one interstep to that voluntary membership. Because if you look at some particular facts, you have 200 trades, OPGs, cooperatives and associations that have decided to volunteer to join the HGK because they have recognised certain benefits, mainly the action "Bought Croatian" as an important channel for the promotion and placement of their products. So if the chamber has good products, good services, good projects that will be offered to our entrepreneurs, they will voluntarily engage. I don't think we really should be so afraid of that change and I'm going to say it again, I hope this is just one step to the fact that the chamber and membership in the chamber are really on a voluntary basis because the chamber really offers a lot of things. I'm personally saying I've used a number of their services since it's much easier to go to an international market if you're going with a chamber than if you're going alone. But I'm saying, once again, it's actually something that big companies use more, and far less these small and medium and the fact is that they now have at least the option of choosing whether to pay a membership fee or not. There's been a lot of it in the public so 42.00 kuna is that a lot, is that a little bit, like an entrepreneur who doesn't have 42.00 kuna, but in principle we shouldn't be focusing on it in times like this, I think that every imposition of which you don't have any concrete benefit in principle is great. What I've pointed out, I'm going to point out one more time, it's these articles. 31st and 32st, 31st, which says that the level of membership will be determined every year, and in principle I have to ask that question once again, does this mean that I did not get an answer in reply to the replica, means that those members who, by force of the law, have no choice to have a higher membership fee or maybe even a significantly higher membership fee, so this income deficit could be compensated by the base of those 60 million kunas they might choose and will not pay. So it's the same. The 32nd Honored State Secretary said that these services are likely to increase, meaning the price list that will be for non-members there will come to a correction to more and from this law is not really seen how this business chamber is going to get rationalised through business because it is really necessary, without it there will be no movement and there will be no further steps possible. And all in all here at last, after all these discussions that we had in HS about HGK some were up late in the night, enough was enough in the media of all that, I would honestly say that as usual there was a lot of noise for nothing because the most important provision, and that is the abolition of mandatory membership in the chamber this law does not change. And once again, I hope this is just an interstep, not a transitional solution that will eventually become permanent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82523	The next debate is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformist, the respected representative of Dario Hrebak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82524	Dear Vice-President of the HS, the respected state secretary with his associates. Finally, the second reading of the HGK Law after a long 30 years of one and the same law without any change, and we all saw that an institution almost 180 years old is turning into an affair, a case, a travesty of arrest, nepotism, the failure of all that was in the Croatian public, but that is no reason for the HGK to cease to exist. All serious countries have economic chambers in their countries, all serious countries know how and how one serious economic chamber can function in one serious country, and I think it's the turn of 30 years to get our own Chamber of Commerce up a little bit. The HSLS party I have belonged to for the past 20 years is talking about the subject, the subject of voluntary membership, the subject of mandatory membership payments, but never as one serious party has advocated the disappearance of HGK, the destruction of HGK. Yeah, at one point I was saying, "If she continues to exist like this, if she continues to act in such a scandalous way, let it be destroyed, let it be destroyed." But if we can change the Chamber of Commerce, I think it's an obligation for all of us to take advantage of that opportunity. There were some initiatives, let's remember a few months ago from some of the parliamentary deputies I don't see here at all, the Chamber of Commerce was at their heart, the Chamber of Commerce was in their language, but today we see three hardworking parliamentary MPs from the opposition, with all due respect I listened to the debates are good, but only three of the entire opposition, and let's remember how much HGK was on media repertoire and how much I was personally lynched by the media because I dared agree with our coalition partners to really reform HGK after 30 years. And yes, perhaps it is not fully reformed as we would all like, so that we all strive, however, the goal is not to destroy the HGK. Someone says it's not a reform, so let me take 97% of your salary, and I'll see how you work and not call it measure and reform. 97% that Mrs Ahmetovic is now laughing, you know what I've been told, those who feel that this law absolutely makes no contribution. You only fought 97%, only 97%. So, we gold this bill for some he won't be good enough just because it came after 30 years of our coalition partners from the ruling majority. Voluntary membership, okay, I agree, we can discuss voluntary membership, but after 30 years, for the first time, we have the possibility that every entrepreneur in this country, I speak up to 97%, but 97% of me is at least rationally not little. He may consider whether he will continue to pay for membership or not to pay for membership. I'm not going to talk about all those European countries from Spain, Germany, Austria, so models very much like ours where that is. However, we should also say what is true, that the Chamber of Commerce of 600, beware that 600 employees will fall below 300 of this reform and that is why it was very important for me to be told by the State Secretary which is what it is and how the Chamber of Commerce will be able to function after such a huge withdrawal of income, but it will have to be on the market, it will have to share the fate of all those who are, and these are Croatian entrepreneurs. So I personally think that this is one big, big step forward, especially after 30 years of doing nothing, and I'm saying there was an initiative both on the left and on the right to do something. But you know who were the biggest advocates of changing the Chamber of Commerce? Well, the biggest advocates were those who are not there today, and that says enough how important and important the Chamber of Commerce is, it is important to them to collect signatures and fish in the pool of anti-vaxer votes, which is much more important to them, and it is always on their minds to care for the Croatian economy. So they had 5 ministers for 8 months they did nothing, nothing, and now for the first time when we have a chance after 30 years really to take one big step, I hope that it will be a really big step in reforming the Chamber of Commerce will be safe and deficient, there will be some I would say children's diseases but this is a big step forward on HGK reform. Someone says what's with these 3%, so that's 3% of the biggest ones, the ones that are the most stable, the ones that have the most money and the ones who honestly have the most and the benefits of that same economic chamber. So let them pay the most. So let them pay the most. But 97% of the small for which my party stands most, we are not a party to large capitalism, we are a party to small, honest entrepreneurs who have had absolutely nothing from the Chamber of Commerce to this day. Absolutely nothing even a birthday card. I believe it will change in the future. Today, people got what we asked for, they got the right choice. The election shall decide whether they want to pay the membership fee or not to pay the membership fee. And as for membership, I don't see what's so big and so big a problem being a passive member. So some go into political parties just to be passive members of the political party, just to say I just want to support it. I don't see what the problem is or why the fama is being created around that part. First we talked about mandatory membership payments, now that we're introducing it, now the biggest problem is why we don't free up membership payments at all. Well, maybe because we're not meant to end HGK, maybe because the goal is what Mrs. Vuciilovic said herself, after 30 years, to take one big step, and maybe it's too much to take two big steps without destroying the institution. We're not meant to destroy an institution. And finally, so to end this debate, I believe that what's most important, the chamber will want to admit it to me or not be left to the market, it will have to manage, it will have to share what I have said and the fate of all those who should represent that little and the chamber will feel what it is to survive on the free market, how it is to digitise services, how it is to fight for every kuna so that they can pay, pay the salaries for the workers themselves of the chamber. So far, we've seen some drafts in the law itself, we've seen digitalization, it's going to have to become a digital chamber, turn to e-service, e-legislation, e-mails, e-financing, e-economic information, so it's going to have to do what every other company on the market is doing, and it's adapting to a new digital revolution, and it's simply going to be more efficient otherwise it won't be able to function. The transformation, therefore, into an efficient, efficient, service that is quality to its own economies, the improvement of the natural perception that is deeply, deeply disrupted with all of these negative things that we have seen for years around the economic chamber, but at the end of it all came to an end, there will have to be a little bit different doing certain things in the chamber itself, and that reforms are being done here, not in the chamber. When you leave it to the chamber that it is doing the reform itself, this reform will never happen, but we are here today with this law, or on Wednesday, by voting, we will send a strong message because we have set a framework. And that's what the state needs to do, set up frameworks, and let the rest of these frameworks be managed in a common, single and free market. The government has met, of course, a coalition agreement with HSLS as a small partner. We are small, but we can influence some things. It's these things that are very important to our part of the people that we address, that are just small entrepreneurs, that are the ones that want certain things to change and allow them to work easier on the market, and that they can certainly have with the reformed economic chamber of a partner that they can address. I am pleased that this very parafiscal imposition together through the government that we have managed to remove 97 only 97% of Croatian entrepreneurs from our backs and that it will begin with the release of this parafiscal burden with the reform of the HGK. To end, it may not be a problem for any Croatian entrepreneur, but it is a strong message that this ruling majority has decided to change certain things, and I think that I hope that good things will continue not only with HGK but generally with the help of the Croatian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82525	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82526	Dearly injured is Rules of Procedure 238, which is that Mr. Hrebak here has offended the common sense of all of us MPs, or if you want parliamentary deputies here now from the opposition as you say because you've been talking all along about we've been looking for an end to the institution of the Chamber of Commerce. No, we've never asked for an institution to be abolished, we're never against the collapse of the institutions you're now very much in favour of. Actually, this exposure of yours here was Justification of why the chip [[Intruder: Time.]] in this government. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82527	You used this breach of the Rules of Procedure, you get a warning. The next club representative is respected, no answer this was an injury, and the injury you're giving here I apologize I haven't seen. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure esteemed representative Dario Hrebak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82528	Since I am a respected parliamentary representative, a respected vice-presidential assembly, I would just like to apologize for commending the ladies of the assembly MPs for being the only ones left in this Chamber, and as far as the chips are concerned, it is best to say how much I have won, the votes won by me in the elections as much as Mrs. Puljak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82529	And a reminder to you, followed by the discussion of the HDZ Club of Representatives, the esteemed representative Zarko Tušek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82530	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed secretary of state, the director of the administration, respected colleagues and colleagues, I see that in the beginning of this debate this debate is getting some contours which may not be necessary about this topic, in particular we should not attach this debate to the context of any impressions created in the first phase of the debate on HGK when we had the law in the first reading where there is also one part of the entrepreneurs initiated their vision of transformation and reforms of the HGK, these are not all entrepreneurs who thought otherwise and then think otherwise that we are asking you not to generalise some festival or to put ourselves in a position that we politicians speak on behalf of entrepreneurs because for this we have absolutely no right and no mandate, especially that we are not putting it in the context of any desired reform perhaps of HGKK management. Because HGK management doesn't choose the Croatian Parliament, it doesn't choose this law, it chooses the businessmen at the Chamber of Commerce, so if someone has problems with it or with the perception of some people who run or are the heads of the Chamber of Commerce, and we have had the opportunity to see it in the present part of the public debate, then I advise them to become members, i.e. to become businessmen first, and then become members of the local Chamber of Commerce, so if they are elected there by their colleagues to the economic council of their county Chamber of Commerce, perhaps they could be assigned to the HGK Assembly and may have an impact on these processes that some are not relevant to this debate today about the law that is here today in front of us. For this reason, I would return exclusively to the subject of this law and what the Government of the Republic of Croatia is offering, based on a public debate and the basis of the law in the first reading, in the second reading. So the current HGK Act dates back to 1991, as has already been said here, and it is quite clear that after so long there is absolutely no need to correct this law, it should be changed independently as I said about some perception of the public and the public debate that was in the space and time behind us, rather than by changing the law, the economic chamber makes it more proactive, more efficient, more efficient and more in tune with the time and space in which we live and in which we act. Of course, the debate on the abolition of HGK membership for me and for the HDZ Club is not a topic to be discussed at this time, but such a law that regulates membership in HGK, not membership but membership, payment of the HGK membership fee will in any case be something that will be a step forward in the functioning of the Chamber of Commerce, in their relationship with the economy and entrepreneurs, so if you want to be able to make it easier for one part of those entrepreneurs from this first group to assess, and we will see which of them will assess and how many of them will not want to pay the membership fee and this minimum that belongs to them. However, it should be said that regulated mandatory membership in the economic chamber is not any Croatian endemic, and this is also said today, Slovenia is mentioned, but it should be mentioned that this or similar model of operation has the economic chambers of Austria, France, Italy, the Netherlands, Germany, Spain, in our environment of Montenegro, Serbia and BiH, which is not a very small number of highly developed and serious European economies that have a traditionally rooted chamber system and which hold much more to it than could be seen that we are holding a public debate around the chamber. The large, strong, market-based even in some way and they can, but the practice has shown that the HGK takes great care of the small ones, that it provides services that would otherwise not be available to them, that it serves them as a lobbyist channel, information provider and everything else they need at the very beginning. And on the Committee on Economy there were words that it was absolutely not the aim of this law destroying the institution, in any way but that it was simply necessary to encourage the Chamber of Commerce on some new governance models and on internal reorganisation. It is very important to state that the chamber more than 2 years ago, so before any legal initiatives and before any public debate that has taken place as I have said in the past year, has launched an independent project of digital transformation, so to speak. The digital chamber that was also talked about here, but that the chamber itself by internal reorganisation or restructure itself has reduced the number of employees that are also being talked about here today even though it is not our concern again, we cannot appreciate here how many people should work in that institution that is appreciated by the chambers and that prices of the businessmen who use that institution, but reduced the number of employees by almost 30%. I do not know if there is any public body in the Republic of Croatia which is addressed by citizens or by part of citizens and which provides services for a part of the citizens or for all citizens and has reduced the number of their employees by 30% over the past few years. As we have had the opportunity to hear the final proposal of this law regulates the status, structure, activity, bodies, jobs, ways of financing HGK, and membership remains as we have stressed mandatory, but membership will of course not be mandatory for one of the largest groups of members, which is the first group. Depending on the economic strength of a business entity that makes up 3 categories, which is active, income and the number of employees under this law, members are divided into 3 groups, and thus the sub-creation of the value of the membership. So now I don't list which groups are according to those three criteria all this says clearly in the law. Anyone who wants to be informed about it can be informed, but it is important to say of course that some of the nearly 150,000 members of the HGK will be almost 97% in the first group category and will be able to choose whether they want to pay membership fees. And whether they choose one way or another we do not have to judge and let us not suggest to them, it will be their own assessment and the business decision that this law allows them to do. Thus, of course, incomes if they all decided not to pay membership fees would be paid to the Chamber of Commerce, and that we will see whether, by 60 million kuna, which in any case is one large amount and which in any case can be one big charge for one part of our small economy, of course, if they want to leave that amount and that membership fee in some way. Each member, of course, will assess what is more cost-effective to them, and that should also be repeated. Those who may never have used any of the chamber service fans will welcome this law with approval, approval. So they will no longer be charged with this, and perhaps some of them, which they use or plan to use, plan to use, will continue to be those members of the Chamber of Commerce who pay the membership fee. Only one service that the Chamber of Commerce offers so little to present to you, which is a service for business Croatia where every entrepreneur can see a blood count of his potentially business partner at the level of the year costs about 9,000 kuna. This was made possible by all those members of the Chamber of Commerce so far who had paid membership fees, that was all. This will, of course, continue to be possible for those who would like to pay membership fees, so when you multiply those 42.00 kuna times 12 months and when you see only one service that I believe a large part of the entrepreneurs would like to have or would be good for them to have, and this is a business Croatia service where they can see a blood count of entrepreneurs with whom they make business relations and therefore assess their business risk, then it is seen that even now the Chamber of Commerce has provided a number of good and quality services, and even for these least who will not have to pay the membership fee. Something special to say, I don't think there's any need at this point. We all know what works at the chamber of the Centre for Peace, the permanent arbitration court and the Court of Honor and parties most of our entrepreneurs through these bodies can come to a better solution and settlements without burdening the courts and at far less cost. In any case, this law will further push the chamber into the market as it has been said several times today, and that is good in any case, it will force them to further organise themselves in some way, to further become competitive, to further sympathise and create empathy with the economic community to be their members on the one hand, and, of course, enables someone who absolutely doesn't want to be who doesn't want any "parafiscal burden" that they don't have to have 97%, and will self-evaluate whether they want to have it and in any case transform the chamber in any other direction. And whether it's going to be good and whether it's going to be as different as it's been until now or it's going to be at some better level, it's only going to show the time that's ahead of us, and very soon we're going to see a picture of those parts of the economy and entrepreneurs who today, since the adoption of this law, won't have to pay any more memberships how much of them will somehow decide to be part of the chamber system and in this active way, which is paying membership fees. As for those medium and large in the position of public debate from their position, I did not even see too many objections to the work of the HGK, since they were most often involved in the economic councils and that they were not too large in the HGK Assembly so far. Here's to the end, HDZ supports the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82531	Next debate on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, respected representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82532	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here at the beginning, I would like to point out once again to Mr. Hrebac and everyone else, therefore, the initiatives that have been here so far in the assembly on the suspension of membership or the abolition of compulsory membership in HGK were never aimed at abolishing the institution. They were focused on reforming the institution, to be respected, I would say both the specifics and the Constitution which say that we are based on entrepreneurial and market freedoms, so that this organisation is reorganised on market grounds and that it offers services to those who are interested in these services and then those services and pay, so to talk about voluntary membership in that chamber. The applicable law has been in force for 30 years, and that alone is sufficient reason to change the whole system urgently. As I said, it's not in any way adapted to modern economics, and here you have, and there have been a lot of good comments in the public debate, so I'm going to take some of them out here too. Therefore, the draft law states that the Chamber of Commerce advocates the mandatory membership model because it thus ensures its own, as political neutrality and independence is said, and that the analysis quotes "analysis has shown that membership in the Chamber ensures entrepreneurs to use a number of services and achieve goals that could not be achieved independently without institutional support of the Chamber, which is used on the principle of solidarity." I'm wondering here, what analysis, so how did this analysis take place? Was there an analysis of the membership, when it was carried out, on which sample was that sample representative? The latest analysis, which I know about, therefore, was published on Telegram.hr on a sample of 500 entrepreneurs, of which 500 of them a representative sample and a cross-section of all members of the Chamber of Commerce, even 82.4% said they would not pay membership fees to the Chamber of Commerce in case the obligation of forced payment was lifted. As regards the assessment of the quality of work, 77.4% of subjects were not at all satisfied or not satisfied with the work of the HGK, which concludes that the Chamber of Commerce would not have survived in this form if there was no mandatory membership fee. We'll see now that this law is passed and that first group is cut off from the membership fee. This research, therefore, which is the only thing I know that has proved what has been being warned about for a long time, which is that entrepreneurs who are members of this institution and finance it do not feel that it benefits them in their business but serves themselves, a party who is in power to retain power and to use this institution for employment-like jobs and well-paid jobs. 86.8% of those who pay membership fees to the Chamber of Commerce believe that membership should not be mandatory, therefore membership, not only membership fees and such a high percentage of dissatisfaction with the work of any institution in any system or state could not be tolerated unless that institution is some kind of monopolies and here, serves the ruling or those who finance it. The bill's proposer further cites the principle of solidarity, calls for the fact that part of European countries retained the mandatory membership model. So 8 countries out of 28. Therefore, Austria, France, Greece, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Germany and Spain. So 8 out of 28 countries have mandatory, so the mandatory membership model, so the other 20 are gone. These 8, whether we like to compare ourselves with them, however, to compare with them according to what their model of the Chamber of Commerce is actually not good, so we do not have any parallels with them, we view them as some kind of example, but at present we cannot compare with them at all in terms of economic strength or arrangement of the support system of the economy. So they're way ahead of us. Nowhere is mentioned, let's say that in neighbouring Slovenia you have a model of voluntary membership and that the system works better than ever, so it just works on the principle of free market economy and paying prices for the requested service. When we talk about solidarity, too, here in the public debate, the question of the fairness of the criteria for dividing economic operators into 3 categories, depending on their economic strength, as well as the issue of huge differences in the required amounts of mandatory membership. The second group has, if you are looking mathematically, 4 times more economic power than the first group, and pays the membership fee which is 25 times higher than the membership of the first group. During the summer debate, whether and during the debate last time and during the Parliament of this and the initiative, the opposition initiative, there were talks about this famous 42 kuna, as if 42 kunas were the biggest problem. No, it's not the amount and 42 kunas per month, it's the problem in the fact that for the amount paid, these entities don't get declared access to information and services, and that's exactly the reason, so insisting on a voluntary membership system in the Chamber. When they're here, these mandatory membership fees are added by all the other impositions, they're parafiscal impositions that we can't count, but some say there's more than 6 hundred parafiscal charges, so there's a hundred less, there's 5 hundred of them, it's scary again, isn't it? Indeed, it is questionable whether the state's goal is to stimulate the economy and entrepreneurship or some kind of discrimination. The basic reason for the advocate of compulsory membership is stated in the public legal nature of the Chamber, is the question in the public debate, whether the analysis of the business is whether, which we do not know when it has been carried out and how and how, and how, as such, the analysis has shown that the Chamber has indeed acted in the public interest and that such action is above the interests of individual members. Here, we say in this analysis published on the portal we have seen percentages, a large number of members are not at all satisfied with the services they receive from this Chamber. I'm going here for the end of a couple of conjectures or unspeakable things in this law, that's this 30-day deadline, Art. 39 in transitional and final provisions, therefore, as it stands, shall be left for 30 days from the date of entry into force of the Law in which those entities must declare whether they wish to use the possibility of membership without payment of the membership fee. This is how this law is written 30 and, in fact, this article 39, it is not clear whether members should declare that they want to pay membership fees or declare that they do not want to pay membership fees. As it is now written, this article is unclear. Let's just say I read it, that they have to make a statement that they don't want to pay, right? You've now explained here that they have to say they want to pay, so in that sense we've also proposed some amendments just to explain it, so there are no wrong interpretations, right? Also, what about the new members of the Chamber, those who have been established, is, after the entry into force of this Act, are they freed by automation or do they have to declare themselves, here, that they will not pay membership fees? Also, the proposed amendment to the Law introduces very few changes on how to choose the body of internal functioning, the Chamber remains closed and non-transparent, members of the Economic Council, members of the Assembly are not elected but are named by similar candidates who confirm all decisions without question, as it seems, whether, as it is now laid down in the Law. So, here's what we're looking for, to treat everyone equally, along with voluntary membership, the price list of services, the Chamber must be placed on the market by its action to show that it really plays a role in strengthening and stimulating the economy. So that it provides services to its members, and members, if satisfied with its services, will therefore be the best invitation and new members to join such an organisation. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82533	Next is a debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, respected representative Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82534	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Dario Hrebak on the reform in the form of his bowed head under Andrej Plenkovic. There goes all the ideal of freedom when Plenkovic shouts, we'll take 97% and make up for it from the state budget. That's liberal. Sasa Poljanec Boric, the vice president of HSLS, shrubed at the end of January, has no negotiations on the suspension of mandatory membership because it is simply HSLS DNA. And now we see that there is still because it can be mandatory membership for some because it is not HSLS for a completely free market and just as much freedom as Plenkovic allows. Who's talking about what, a liberal about freedom? According to him, what's wrong with being a member of the HGK? What's wrong with being a forced member of some cheerleading club? What is wrong with being a forced member of a religious organization? Liberal. The Liberals and the Autopathics of Hrebaku are synonyms. But enough about Hrebak and his credibility, we're already used to it. Let's talk about the law. When the HGK Law was discussed in the first reading in July, one of the fundamental issues to be addressed through this Law was the issue of membership, and then the roles of the HGK itself. Whether it plays an active role in the economic diplomacy of the Republic of Croatia and indeed helps economic operators in their planning of business on foreign markets or is an institution that is its own purpose and kills membership to show that it is actually doing its job. Still as a key change in the mode of work of the Chamber with the purpose of transforming the Chamber into an efficient and efficient service facing the economy because the suspension of membership in the Chamber for the most numerous part of the Chamber membership, companies that make up 96% of the membership. I won't remind you of the criteria. The membership is therefore still being paid by members of the Chamber, but it is those remaining 4.5 thousand members and they have some rights and some obligations. These others don't have much rights, they don't have much of a commitment, except they have to be members and the question is how many of these mandatory members will be mandatory or optional because people won't even be able to meet the deadline that you prescribed that they should contact you, if they don't want to be members, or if they don't want to pay membership fees. However, since it is not certain how much revenue will be made on the basis of membership fees of these 96% of membership, it is unknown and uncertain that this change will really affect the work of the Chamber, but there will be a compensation for the impact assessment of the regulations. We said when we first read, I repeat today, that kind of regulation is absurd. It shows only that the laws are passed ad hoc, obvious, hasty, often, and that's also the case here, because it's a promise to one of the government's partners or a partner went off a little bit, I quoted earlier, not because there are arguments for changes. And it's not an income reduction reform. Reform is measures to improve the service of HGK or reform measures to reduce HGK expenditure and respected state secretaries, do not deceive the public, the public knows very well what reform is, and this reform is not. The answer that the HGK will then decide what kind of reform it will implement, and it may not implement the reform at all, because it can do so with its own structure, because whether or not it will implement the reform will be decided by the Assembly, which, behold, is appointed by someone who is exactly like it. The government rejected our proposal by explaining in an administrative dictionary that the form of assessment of the effects of the regulations has been implemented, but what remains as undeniable is that nowhere is it clear how much less revenue the Chamber will have because of the cancellation of the fee of one part of its membership, whether it can be considered a discharge for the economy and whether it is only a half solution in order not to introduce a voluntary membership in the Chamber, which would be the best solution. Secondly, we continue to believe that mandatory membership in the Chamber and mandatory membership in many is perceived as parafiscal imposition. This is true because membership fees and membership obligations are not acceptable to anyone unless that membership also brings some benefit to members. The most controversial part of the Chamber membership for many members is the fact that they do not see the benefits of the work of the Chamber and that they do not see the reason why they would pay the membership fee. Following this, the real transformation of the Chamber would be the provision of services and the implementation of activities from which the economy would benefit, and not the feeling that their membership fee, and that mandatory in particular, would benefit from paying salaries similar and desirable. In this regard, we continue to believe that it is important to know how the Chamber measured the effects of its activities and when it boasts about numerous bilateral forums, visits to delegations, bilateral agreements and data exchange, whether there are indications whether Croatian companies have succeeded, thanks to membership in the Chamber and participation in these activities to conclude jobs, expand their business and make good results on foreign markets and how it is measured. In addition to the questionable role in economic diplomacy, the HGK also has a number of public powers passed on to specific regulations such as the issue of work permits in transport, real estate business, the management of certain databases that can all be transferred to state administration bodies, and to the Ministry of Transport, Economy and Construction, and there is no need for an institution that should support and manage economic diplomacy, if that is the idea, to deal with administrative affairs. Finally, the idea of amending the Law is, as it stands, to change the perception that the Chamber is dealing with itself. But through this Law we do not see that this perception will certainly change because we do not know what measures the Chamber will introduce to change that perception. If the law is passed because of perception, not because the Chamber is formed to be functional and to help the economy, then it better not be brought. We support redefining the role of the Chamber itself, but not through mandatory membership that is not possible for charge, but through the possibility of choosing whether or not anyone wants to be a member. In other words, membership does not have to be mandatory, and the Chamber should work with its work, work and activities to strengthen the membership base. Since we do not believe that this law will receive the necessary changes in the work of the HGK Club of the SDP will not support this law. What I'd just like to add is that I have a little time left. Income from membership fees and membership contributions 73% of HGK's income. Income from donations from the budget 11% of HGK's income. Total this is 85% of HGK's income. Costs for workers 31% of HGK expenditure. Costs for services 40% of HGK expenditure. Therefore, it is very easy to see that the revenues from state donations or donations of the state budget and from membership fees cover employees' expenditures and expenses for services. I wonder, and what measures will HGK take to reduce staff expenditure and to reduce the costs for services that are necessary according to the chamber's report, and it was also about the development and development of a million kuna chamber website or some of the unremarked other services of a million and 200 thousand kuna, or information services of 3 million and 200 thousand kuna, and not to list all the services mentioned in the report. What is further controversial is the fact that these data are derived from the report for 2020 and 19 respectively. A year. The report for 2020 has not yet been published on the HGK pages and the question is when it will be published. So we're talking about a large number, a huge reduction in the number of employees, but we don't see it from the latest HGK report, nor is it publicly declared, and one single HGK reform measure that would actually cause these revenues to be reduced. I hope that the missing revenues of about 69 million kuna will not be transferred from the state budget again to the burden of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82535	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82536	Thank you very much. counterpart Ahmetovic injured Article 238, insulting the secretary of state that this is not a reform, while constantly forgetting that HGK is an independent institution. My colleagues, if you want to manage reforms, run there and win. The HGK didn't even get a drop from the budget, it's down from 670 to 370 now to 250, but it's on them. And it's a good thing that businessmen choose their own leadership and do their own reforms, and this law that.../incomprehensible/... 97% where he won't pay the membership fee.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82537	This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you made a replica and you get a warning. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure, respected Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82538	Thank you very much. Article 238 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure, MP Pavić, in fact, insults reason and my and all citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have read the HGK's report on financial operations, which says how much expenditure or income the HGK had from the state budget, from the pockets of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And you can see that clearly, I also said how much of that income is 40%, so I'm sorry 11%, respectively. 21 and a half million kuna, 21 and a half million [[Intruder: Time.]] /incomprehensible/... from the pockets of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82539	It's a warning. Why do you abuse the Rules of Procedure? .../
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82540	Intruder: Not understood./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82541	Then you have two warnings. Next debate on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, a respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82542	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, so here's the pure pleasure of standing up for this pay phone and talking about the HGK that someone here has declared independent a few minutes ago, and we know what the leading personnel are like in the chamber, so I can really say that it offends common sense and ask what you're kidding and what we're even talking about. But let's put aside the fact that HGK has always been a crucible of HDZ personnel or personnel in formation or those who should have retired at one point, let's put it all aside. Let's talk about the metrics, and that's this law, that's HGK and what it's supposed to do. In fact, awareness of this debate only on whether membership should be mandatory or not I mean completely declassified because the HGK is a little more than its mandatory or optional membership and the role that at least in theory should play is something else that exceeds these issues. What she does in practice is the same thing we can talk about, so I'll come back a little later. So this is an institution that was created 180 years ago. One of the oldest institutions in Croatia I would dare say with the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts probably the oldest. But you shouldn't be sentimental especially when we're talking about the economy. The role and tasks of the HGK are to gather, network businessmen, help them achieve their common interests, facilitate access to foreign markets etc., etc. And we don't have to, I don't think we have to do it in particular here, I think we all know it more or less. But what it actually looked like in practice. In practice, it seemed like I said that the staff of a state-run party had dominated there, not to say, if I had said bad, I would have been caught, but I'm not bad, so I'm not going to say it, that the work of the HGK actually reduced itself to the polling of economic operators that are members of its members and possibly members here and there would have taken them to some fair either in the country, either abroad with very questionable results at the end of the same way as they would have led businessmen into different delegations with senior officials of Croatia, or it was also this insane idea that HGK would have taken over economic diplomacy. But the results are quite different, it's already mentioned here, and I don't want to repeat that from the surveyed businessmen how many have said that it has some benefit from the HGK. Very little. Why is that? Well, part of it is safe and because as a monopoliest, HGK is allowed to behave as he wishes, that no one controls it because it's usually the personnel that are very close to the authorities, so we're not going to be too chatty and at the end of the day no one appreciates it or at least takes it as a right, and I think that as the largest representative body we should have, we should be able to assess what are the positive effects that the HGK has achieved on our economy, on our exports, on behalf of entrepreneurs, etc. What I can tell you from my humble experience in the economy is the only thing that was regular by HGK especially for small entrepreneurs was she called it so "monthly congratulations" as you have to pay. The return was small to no at least for small economic operators. And on the other hand, it's a good thing we're gonna relieve them of a parafiscal charge. However, that fact itself will not solve the problem that the chamber has, the chamber still has public authority, the chamber still needs to do everything I said, and it will work with significantly smaller money, with significantly smaller employees, and if the results have already been this bad, I wonder what it will be like after that restructuring. But at the end of the day, the HGK should be an upgrade to the Croatian economy, a support system, for example, and it is not surprising that an economy like the Croatian and the support system is not good when the economy is not good either. Why isn't it good? There's only a few reasons I want to single out, and anyone who spent a minute in the economy knows what I'm talking about. So first of all, a very high degree of uncertainty on the market. The question you want to collect some claims, companies open up and nothing like mushrooms after the rain, it's been tried multiple times, but I really don't see that in 30 years of state existence we're not able to provide our entrepreneurs with at least a minimum level of security on the market. Also large companies that operate in general almost exclusively with the country suffocating and the little healthy economy and the little healthy competition that survived. It is also a great legal uncertainty, not to speak now about the security of collection but in general in proceedings before courts longevity of proceedings etc. It also has a catastrophic impact on the economy. After all, we are also a country whose population is very fast and unstoppingly old, so we also deprive ourselves of the workforce, but also of the consumer because if you consider the average pension, and especially of the pensioners who are now going to retire, then it is clear why the economy is what it is like for us because pensions are enough only for survival and not for a decent life. However, as far as the concrete law is concerned, unlike the time when the daily newspaper's headings filled stuffed animals along the mountain-mounts of the mountains in Croatia, which we agree to promote, but perhaps not in this tone, some shift has been made. What is seen is a reduction in the number of HGK employees, which we can welcome and we don't have to if the chamber is forced on this and will be forced unless the state plans to increase its revenues. That's what we're going to see, in fact we're going to see if this was just one cosmetic law to cut membership fees, and at the same time we're going to increase aid and within the budget, because if we did that then we colleagues and colleagues just went from hollow to empty, then still taxpayers' money goes to some well. Whether he's bottomless or not, that'll also show time. But what's good is sure that every discharge of the economy, every discharge of entrepreneurs is something to be welcomed. What needs to be done in the next period is therefore that the HGK must focus on the market on which it should exist before and compete with the quality of its service that you want to be a member because it is a matter and prestigious, but also services. And all those countries in Europe that you state as an example of mandatory membership are, as a rule, the case for you, so that economic operators also want to be members of the chamber because of the benefits they receive from membership, but also because of the prestige that this membership itself holds. Ours, unfortunately, isn't wearing any of that. And what we need to think about is the restructuring of HGK, a better organisation and performance that has a head and tail, every budget kuna should be spent with some purpose and a clear goal, and not that we happen to have a huge stand at the fair, now I'm going to check out in Rio de Janeiro who has people on the stand so HGK employees, no afternoon because boys and girls went to the beach. Such economic diplomacy, such economic representation of Croatia abroad, we absolutely do not need it. And whose account? Again at the expense of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Therefore, the focus on other markets should be, we need to be markets that are naturally prone to us or where we have a chance to break through, we also need a chamber of consciousness in some reasonable frameworks, but again I am not going to spill out from hollow to empty, lift one parafiscal imposition to increase another item within the budget, because then this law did not achieve colleagues and colleagues anything at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82543	Following individual debates, Grozdana Peric is the first respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82544	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear State Secretarys with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues, so before us is the law a second reading on HGK and what has been said so far has been said a lot, however, the chamber as an institution is, as stated in the definition itself, an independent professional business organisation of economic operators established to promote, coordinate and represent common interests and resolve their disputes in the country and abroad. As I mentioned, the chamber of both HGK and other chambers, or the way the chamber was set up, where the territorial approach was important to its components, and these are county chambers that themselves have a long tradition, as I said in Zadar, which came out of the Chamber of Commerce back in 1806. Not only are they small, their importance is to connect and give one image of the economy in a particular area, and this is also a mandatory membership that enables certain information to be collected, which is then sublimed into certain brochures and digital brochures, which provides a better image on a particular area and on a particular branch of industry in that area, and also enables it to connect both preparation and supply information and analysis to individual bodies of the unit and regional self-government so that it is very important to link it to the base or to individual entities. We can only give an example published by the Leader, and it was conducted by the HUP where, among those surveyed in 2020, it gave an insight into the business of entrepreneurs in 2020, and 65% of respondents spoke about what they expected in 2021, given the impact of the pandemic where they said they were expecting a decline in business income, 60% expected stagnation, 43% said they were demanding the suspension and expected a reduction of unsuspecting giving, and 19% of entrepreneurs expected greater EU access to funds. Here's what HUP was doing, which actually came from the HUP membership, which is the same thing when we look at the statistics that HGK gives where you have a full image of the whole, the entire territory of Croatia, also in certain counties, we can see what it means when we have such a complete picture that they give. When we talk about membership fees, then 30% of the total revenues that will be actually abolished in this way for the first group, the second group pays around 13,000 kuna membership fees so far, and that is 43 million kuna of income obtained from the second group or over 3,300 entrepreneurs. There are about 1,418 large entrepreneurs with an annual commitment of around 47,000 kuna and their contribution is 38% or 67 million kuna. It is from this very point of view that the bearers of the biggest income are, the contributions in revenues are large entrepreneurs who will thus remain as such bonds.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82545	Replica, distinguished representative Ankica Zmaić,.../incomprehensible/... I'm after Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82546	Thank you very much, Vice President. Your colleagues Perić spoke about statistics, numbers, pleasure, the activities of our businessmen and emphasized the diversity of which part of our beautiful talk about both the activities and the problems in the pandemic. So here's how you come from Zadar County from me neighbouring as I come from Sibenik-Kninska in our counties basic activity is tourism. So here I also have some figures, it's sad when we look at indicators and figures as many HGK members in the tourism department in 2019 and 2020, so it can be seen that even for 4.461 members we were poor for 4.461 members when it comes to tourism activity, it speaks enough about what all the pandemic has done for tourism activity. Well, here's a little bit of your comment. for the situation in Zadar. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82547	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82548	Thank you, dear colleagues, for the pandemic has greatly influenced this activity, because it is the most sensitive branch that has proved to have suffered the most. However, what needs to be said is that the Croatian Chamber of Commerce reacted and reduced so quickly, made decisions on reduction and non-payment, the possibility of non-payment of membership fees to the Chamber of Commerce, and also gave some entrepreneurs the opportunity to postpone from one year and two years if they had difficulties or were in difficulty. Therefore, there was an opportunity to help the economy in this way but I don't think the focus was just to cut membership fees, but also to improve the work of the Chamber of Commerce itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82549	Next replica, the respected representative Ankica Zmaic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82550	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Peric, you have looked back in your debate and said that county chambers have a long tradition, and they are also links with local and regional (regional) units of self-government and normal to economies and craftsmen. So you're sure you have any idea how pleased the members of the county chamber are in your Zadar County?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82551	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82552	Thank you very much. Members of the Chamber of Commerce and Entrepreneurs in our county are extremely pleased with their cooperation. What certainly concerns the County Chamber is a way of functioning in the future, given the reduction in incomes that will be at the level of the entire Chamber of Commerce and so on the county. And what I can also say is that it is precisely during this period when we as a county can boast from 2019 and 2020 where there has been an increase in the number of employees despite the fact that there has been a problem with both the pandemic and all the other difficulties that have followed the economy. Therefore, I think that the Chamber in synergy with entrepreneurs has worked very well together and ultimately made suggestions on how to solve the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82553	Thank you very much. Now it's Mrs. Majda Buric's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82554	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary Mikush-Zigman, Mr Novak, dear colleagues and colleagues. So today we are talking about the centuries-long independent professional and business organisation of economic operators, so the Croatian Chamber of Commerce that needs to be further improved, and not in any way destroying which one should in any case be highlighted as a valuable and necessary institution that has always followed and followed the needs of entrepreneurs but that certainly needs transformation and modernisation, which is actually back several years and recorded from rationalisation and reorganisation of business to new services according to the needs of the economy. The chamber is certainly a serious partner to the economics, and it needs transformation already under way and this law is in fact continuing this process. This law, as I have already said, does not abolish mandatory membership, does not introduce voluntary membership but the possibility of voluntary membership payments for the first group of members made up of almost 97% of all members of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. So, we're talking about around 13,000 businessmen, micro and small entrepreneurs who have so far had the obligation to pay a membership fee of 42 kuna. This is very important to emphasize, so we're talking about 42 kunas per month, or we're talking about the equivalent of the price, for example one Lino ship of 75 deca or two or three coffees. Who are members of the first group of those who have a total asset of up to seven and a half million kuna, the total income of up to 15 million kuna or up to 50% of employees, and by the power of this law they will, as I have already said, have the opportunity to be freed from paying membership fees, so members of the first group will choose themselves according to their own needs and by their own choice whether they want to pay further or not. As for the members of the second and third groups, they remain payment bonds, however, when we talk about payment of membership fees, I point out that the Chamber has already freed its members who have been affected by these consequences of the chamber contribution, and newly established entities do not pay membership fees in the first and also often in the second year of business. In addition, they shall also be provided with all necessary assistance and support from writing a business plan, consulting on laws relating to them, assistance related to funding requirements, etc. As far as the HGK budget itself is concerned, 144 million kuna are foreseen in this year's financial plan. The share of planned expenditure for workers is 32% unlike previous budgets when this was significant, significantly higher, and the reduction of that share is the consequence of the already mentioned transformation and the start-up process of rationalisation of business. It is very important to say that the number of employees since 2014 has so far been reduced from 670 to 370 employees, so by more than 40% and services have nevertheless been improved and improved and set up according to needs. For example, I will highlight special education, courses, lectures, conferences, seminars organised by HGK, and the number of educations in 2019 was 504, and almost 21,000 people were on their way. In 2020 there were three hundred and a half educations that were attended by 15 500 people, and in this year until 1.12, the number of educations organised by the HGK was 370 and there were 22 150 participants, which I find extremely important and useful. As for the new services themselves, the chamber has placed a number of new services for the entrepreneur in recent years. From making credits to personalised access to entrepreneurs, to EU projects, market analysis and in particular the Digital Chamber platform, which provides a new dimension for e-service. They're all eight, and I'm going to especially highlight exactly the e-starting of the job as one of the elements in the Digital Chamber. Also, the chamber performs a number of public powers, I think 15 are all, and...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82555	Time, thank you. Everyone tells me time, time, time, so you're done, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82556	Okay, I'm not, but I'm going to.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82557	Mr. Cappelli is now, having a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82558	Dear Vice President, colleague Buric...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82559	He was yelling at the most.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82560	Well, I read this last one, he says, when they were in Ukraine our economy, and I quote what the Ukrainian side said – thanks to strategic co-operation with the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, new opportunities for cooperation for the economy are being realized. The circus, there were about 200 of them when we sum up both sides. But something else I wanted to do, your experience during the time you were at the Ministry of Labour, and you mentioned education. And I know from that tourist work, as much as it's always talked about the Tourist Community, it's the same thing to shut it down, it's the same earrings and it's not good, so now we've seen when this difficult situation was, how much tourism system has kept on its feet all over there, this arrival, the great number of arrivals of tourists. Also, exactly how to preserve and strengthen the capacities of the workforce. One of the topics about education and everything, so please comment on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82561	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82562	Thank you, dear fellow Cappelli. So I agree with you that the frames are extremely important to them, that they should be constantly working on and that's what the HGK is really showing. And for members covered by the HGK, so as I said before, in... Let's say that if we look at, this, in 2020, which was related to the crown and earthquakes, a catastrophic, therefore, and in such conditions, there were three hundred educations and 15 500 people attended these seminars, conferences and so on. And I find it extremely important, and I know that the chamber will continue to do so, and as far as the Ukrainian-Croatian Business Forum is concerned, I think we will all really agree that this is strategically important for the Republic of Croatia and that this is something to be congratulated on both the Croatian government and the HGK and entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82563	Thank you. Thank you very much. Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82564	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, Honorable Vice President of the Parliament. Well, we all know the action Let's buy Croatian, which is a commendable action that encourages citizens to buy domestic and on the threshold. You MPs, you come from the Primorje-Gorski County, from Gorski Kotar, how much such actions mean, especially to our small producers who can't and don't know, and they don't have the channels of placement of their goods on a large, European, global market. How much does it mean that they have a partner that they can sell on the threshold, and how much does it mean that they have a partner that they can do it with, such activities, fairs, that they can place their products. So if you can give us a little insight into your experience in this matter from Gorski Kotar and Primorje-Gorski Kotar County.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82565	Thank you very much, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82566	Thank you, colleague Pavic. So, praiseworthy action Let us buy Croatian, which lasts, if I am not mistaken, but in the twentieth year and which should be especially commended, given that its goal is in fact awareness of both consumers and producers, related to the importance of buying Croatian products. That's how we keep our jobs. That's how we protect the economy. In the end of retirement. And in this way, when you look at it, when you put it at the level of a small OPG, as you say from the area of Gorski Kotar or the Primorje-Gorski County, therefore, this same entrepreneur or OPG has a much, much better opportunity to place his product. From the scribblings, from Beg's Razdolje, which is the most populated place in the Republic of Croatia, from which are top products such as scrappers and so on, and I think it has even the Croatian Quality Mark, i.e. the HGK Sign.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82567	Thank you, thank you very much. Mrs. Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82568	Dear colleagues, here... I certainly don't see why it's a problem to abolish mandatory membership in the Chamber of Commerce, if we are here, if the members are so pleased with that chamber, they'll be happy to be members so it might not be a problem to pay the membership fee, but here... How do the comments find and, respectively, an analysis that says that three-quarters of the chamber members are not satisfied with the services provided by that chamber? So, forcibly, members of a chamber, forced legally, must become members. So far, they've had to pay their membership fees legally. Three-quarters of them are not satisfied with the services, and we have a series of actions, let's buy Croatian, this, and so on. According to this analysis, three-quarters says we are not satisfied.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82569	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82570	Thank you, colleague Puljak. I will continue on in the standard Croatian language and I will tell you the following. So, the subject matter of this law is not membership at all, it's membership fees. And these membership fees, i.e. 42 kunas paid monthly by the small members, are now no longer necessary for those who do not want to do so, which does not mean that they will not have the right to service or to what they need from the chamber. However, as it says, it will pay only the reasons in the law in a way that will be prescribed. So, as far as membership itself is concerned, it is not at all a proposal of this Law, and as for those analyses you mentioned, I do not know which source, or which is a representative sample, or whether it is representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82571	Thank you. Mrs. Oreshkovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82572	Here is MP Buric I will repeat the question in the standard Croatian language when you have already been so boastful in your reply to the replica Marijana Puljak. So, this law prescribes still mandatory membership, so I'm asking you to interpret when you're already in the law on what urgency is? In fact, if it were an independent professional organisation, then the logic of things would be that those carrying out economic activity alone can decide whether or not they want to belong to such an organisation and not whether the State imposes it on them. Also, if it is purely voluntary, and it is not obvious, to associate the businessmen in some kind of structure, then explain to me why the state defines the internal structure and territorial division of the county chambers. Why is that even defined by law, not by the internal acts of the businessmen themselves? Also, why is the government's consent necessary to establish representation abroad?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82573	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82574	Thank you, Mrs. Oreshkovic. So I repeat once again, the subject of this Law is not membership at all, but membership fees only for those who are members of the first group. So 97% of the members or entrepreneurs will no longer need to pay membership fees to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. As for the membership you have so often mentioned, this membership actually guarantees representativeness. It guarantees that we have the right data, that we have the databases, that the Ministry or the Chamber, that the Croatian Chamber of Commerce has the correct and credible data that are absolutely necessary and I believe that mandatory membership actually guarantees real representativeness. And as for membership fees, I think that's where it's all been said. And once again I think I should mention that the right to unlimited use of most services will continue to...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82575	Thank you. We can't. Mrs. Juričev Martinchev. [[Intruder Buric: Good.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82576	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear counterpart Buric, in your debate, you mentioned the impact and work of Croatian Chamber of Commerce employees when some new laws are passed. So here I would mention that only in 2020 did the Department of Tourism work and made observations on numerous legislative proposals, so the observations and suggestions in the Tourism Service Act were adopted, in the Regulation on how to use vouchers for unfinished travel contracts in the package arrangement, the Regulation on the level of payment and distribution of tourist fees for charter vessels, etc. Also, no less important workshops were held for different companies when some new rules, laws were adopted, so we have workshop for charter companies when it comes to the rules on keeping registers of ships of the highest age and technical conditions for enrolment in the register of ships, then those relating to the level of compensation etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82577	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82578	Thank you, colleagues of Juričev Martinchev. I agree with you that the HGK works extremely hard, has a lot of activities aimed at members or interested users. I think that right now they are following or may have passed, say, the arbitration days that are extremely, extremely important to the businessmen and where it is very important that this whole process actually ends quickly and that at one stage, there is a judicial verdict without the possibility of appeal to the same. So I know that the Chamber of Commerce has been constantly carrying out all sorts of activities since these arbitration days and promoting the permanent arbitration tribunal and its importance and perhaps even its determination to all of these activities that you have listed in the tourism sector.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82579	Thank you. Mrs. Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82580	Thank you very much. But here's an esteemed colleague of mine you'll be able to continue because my replica was heading in the direction of the Court of Justice. In addition, you spoke about all the services provided by the HGK, you touched on the short and public powers, and these are acts which the Chamber issues and in its exercise have the status of public documents. The HGK and the HUP signed a document a week ago that established special breeds on construction, which is also important because the existing uzances have not been changed since 1977 and then we come to an arbitration trial or a permanent arbitration court at the HGK has a long tradition. You said it in 1854. And I think we agree that this arbitration trial at HGK is as the oldest and largest arbitration institution in the Republic of Croatia, which is actually in accordance with the Arbitrage Act, so here you can continue for what it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82581	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82582	Thank you very much, dear colleague Blažević. So it is true that only a year from the draft Croatian Chamber of Commerce actually started to work the activity of the Permanent Court of Arbitration. So since 1854 a great tradition, a great experience in solving what foreign, which processes within the Republic of Croatia. I find it extremely important because it relieves Croatian courts and because it actually gives the economy the possibility of a very, very fast, quick end of disputes because the verdict is powerful and there is no possibility of appeal and everything happens in one degree. In addition, everything for the public and the arbitration tribunal itself or the arbitration panel itself has been closed by an individual or an arbitration panel of its authority for the trial under the rights of which the parties may Feel free to dispose [[Intruder: Thank you.]] draws from the consensual will of the parties in the dispute. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82583	And no more, no more replicas, thank you. Now it's Mr. Marko Pavić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82584	Dear Vice-President, it is my pleasure to have this second reading of the HGK Act and exactly what we see is that this law is a real reform. And what we're seeing is the same way the opposition works on all of this to go into the disassembly of institutions. Now the HGK is the next is the Chamber of crafts, tourist communities and all, and this is about the demonstration of 140 years of tradition. Yes, this tradition is of great benefit we saw in the last few days, recently organized visit to Ukraine when 100 businessmen went there, when the investments were agreed and long ago I said you'd be crying when you destroy these institutions, and because our first major problem will be the lack of labour and we see that this season has already been one of the key problems. I worked with the Chamber of Commerce on very many occasions and it was always a pleasure to connect the HGK with the Austrian Chamber of Commerce with their WIFI institute and to look up to them in transformation and reform. And I believe that both this law and everything that the chamber does goes in that direction and where the tradition of the heritage of that Austrian model, and also France and Italy have it, we also inherit it in this law. Another thing I'd like to say is that the HGK is an independent institution of economics. I know that colleagues from the opposition, I am sorry that there is no colleague Ahmetovic would like to rule this institution, but they are an independent institution, they choose their own leaders, if it is so awful Mrs. Puljak what they then re-elected Mr. Burilovic and the leadership if they are so dissatisfied, but they are not chosen by the parliament, neither by the government nor by ourselves. Another thing I would like to say is that with this legal solution, 96% of the members will not pay or be released from membership fees. It is further on the HGK to see for themselves which transformation, and already they are doing it themselves they once had 670 employees, Mr Burilovic also remained up to 370, and the plan has reached 250. Therefore, almost 60% reduction of employees. I am sorry to say that, once again, there is no colleague Ahmetovic who presents incorrect and false information. Therefore, the total contribution of the budget is negligible in the HGK. Mrs Ahmetovic quoted instead of praising the chamber, she quoted how many EU projects they have. So, in 2018 to 206 million revenues were over 222 million in donation revenue, but 21 million were European projects. And instead of congratulating the chamber that they have so far had 120 million projects, it is false that our money in the budget depends. Absolutely incorrect. What does the chamber do for members? So the permanent arbitration court, fairs, over 1271 Croatian company was already mentioned as a participant of business delegations abroad this year. Also the number of education 22.149 students of education in this crisis crown year which is more than 1,000 compared to the pre-crisis 2019. Digitalization, digital chamber 55,000 members. And the offices outside the Republic of Croatia like that in Shanghai have led to 75% of the exchange with China since the opening of that office. So out of $113.6 million, the EUR investment from China since '93. To this day, 75%. Therefore, the closing chamber is needed, should be given wind in her back. By this law 96% of the members will not pay membership fees, she is an independent institution choosing her membership and at the benefit of our businessmen and should be preserved and given wind in her back that like these visits to Ukraine equally Keep working. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82585	Mrs. Oreshkovic, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82586	Representative Pavić, one explanation, therefore, of this centuries-old tradition of the Chamber of Commerce does not destroy and destroy those opposition MPs who advocate not only membership, but also membership in the chamber is voluntary, but the institution has had it for a while, some, perhaps seven or more years, destroying corruption affairs, starting with the Nadjan Vidosevic affair, which is still nowhere near the epilogue before the judicial authorities, and also circumstances related to the current leadership, or to Luka Barilovic himself. You're saying how that they re-elected him as if it were really the mere will of the economy. Officially, it may be so, but not in reality and within the HDZ Chamber of Commerce system, it has its own corrupt tentacles, and also the same Luka Burilovic could not sit where everything sits from the Supervisory Board of the INA, Podravka, the Environmental Protection Fund. So these are all the synergy that gave him HDZ's corrupt structure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82587	Thank you. Please respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82588	Thank you, dear colleague Oreshkovic. Well, I think the transformation is absolutely on its way. The judicial institutions will act as far as Mr Vidosevic is concerned. It went into realisation once again from over 670 to 370 employees, and 250 is the goal. And as I remember well from the Janaf affair, it was also paid to you, you were some kind of entrepreneur. So activate yourself in entrepreneurship associations. I am sure that all the businessmen, entrepreneurs, will recognize your struggle and that you will very quickly surface to all the high functions of professional organisations that will support you dearly to be the one who runs the expert associations of businessmen.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82589	Mrs. Mariana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82590	Dear Mr Pavić, just explain to me, I will not be going into any discussions with you right now, but Article 4(1) for you and your colleague, your earlier membership in the Chamber, is mandatory for all legal persons who carry out their economic activity in the Republic of Croatia. So much so that this law does not say anything about mandatory membership in the Chamber of Commerce that Article 4(1) does not speak. So why are you afraid of abolishing mandatory membership when this Chamber is such a good society, a good organization. Here you are, volunteer members when it's all so good, expanding friendship with Ukraine, with all other countries, expanding to Croatian etc. So, the extraordinary actions we absolutely support. So, once again, we are not in favour of abolishing the institution, but we are in favour of voluntary membership.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82591	Thank you. Time. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82592	Thank you very much. Well, respected colleagues, Puljak, are on board to do so, so they are an independent association of businessmen. Can you do better, me like this on the outside can always do better. I think they can be better and more proactive, especially in terms of foreign economic policies and vocational education,... And I believe there's still a lot to go on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But the opposition going into the disassembly of the institutions it's true it just doesn't have here this main engine, gathering somewhere anti-vaxerics promote other values, but they've rolled it in this direction. Now they're not even here today when we're discussing, and that's exactly what we're going to do. If there was a problem with membership fees, which was a problem, now 96% of the members will not be paying membership fees and the model we have is an Austrian model, French, Italian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82593	Thank you. Mrs. Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82594	Thank you, Vice President. So, dear colleague Pavic, we heard again today a lot of moaning opposition about everything that is not the subject of this law, and it's kind of an unfounded moaning about membership and funding, so I'd like to touch it in particular. I think that you should repeat the financing of the Chamber of Commerce in fact, because as far as I know the funding from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, which is directed towards the HGK, are very, very small and what exists in the structure, millions are related to how much the Chamber has drawn from European projects, 21 million in this year, 120 million in total, and I think they need to be congratulated on that. In addition, the financing of the chamber is not only from membership fees but also from other services and products they offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82595	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82596	Thank you very much. So here is after my colleague Ahmetovic's presentation, I have just printed their report on the incomes and expenditures of the 2018 balance sheet. Incomes were then EUR 208 million, 11% of donation income, that's what counterpart Ahmetovic said but almost all of them, of those 22 million kunas 21.1 million are European funds. And instead of commending the Chamber for the work of European funds, let's say in vocational education, it does so falsely states that 11% of them come from the budget. No, 10 and a half percent of them come from EU funds and half a percentage point, so 496 thousand kuna from the state budget and 411 000 from the JLRS budget. So less than half a percentage point was public money.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82597	Time. Mrs. Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82598	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague. The final draft of the law will transform the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and make it an even more efficient service to the economies for which we are surely all in favour. Of course, we all welcome every discharge from our entrepreneurs and businessmen, but this government has also done so through several rounds of tax reform that it has implemented. But what I would like to touch is another very important, almost the most significant activity of the chamber being carried out on one side through the Economic Council where the most competent businessmen are discussing certain problems in the economy, and where further through the expert groups the problems of a particular group of activities are being discussed. Of course you're looking for suggestions, to listen to all the suggestions, to look for solutions through the same ones, and we're all sure we need to strengthen the Chamber, to protect but of course also rationalize.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82599	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82600	Thank you very much. So if a government has shown that it is giving its hands to entrepreneurs, it is this, 12 and a half billion kuna to save 700 thousand jobs. Also tax reforms disbursement citizens, but also a huge discharge for entrepreneurs. Of course we want the inclusion of HGK, HUP and trade unions in all processes of sectoral decision-making for individual occupations, for individual skills. This is crucial for the future labour market, and key to all this is vocational education, and there is a big step, 80 million euros of European funds are provided for the reform of vocational education where the great role plays exactly and the HGK because what we will need in the future, these very professional interests are already very much lacking, we import more than 100 thousand workers annually.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82601	Thank you very much. On the video, Mrs. Devereaux. Marina Opačak Bilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82602	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Pavic, here, I would like to hear your opinion on the fact that the issue of an orderly tax certificate is conditional upon the reconciliation of membership in the HGK, which directly places it in parafiscal impose. Since the IRS certificate or so-called. a certificate of good reputation necessary for the documentation for participation in public tenders, a large number of entrepreneurs faced the problem of not issuing and an orderly confirmation due to one day of late payment, which certainly made their business difficult. So here, I ask you, do you hold this correct, especially since we know that three-quarters of the membership is dissatisfied with the work of the Chamber and the relationship of the Chamber to them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82603	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82604	Thank you very much. Well, that's exactly what this bill is all about where 97% of the members won't pay membership fees, so if they won't pay membership fees, there's no debt. So, absolutely this reform that the Ministry is proposing is going in this direction, it's benefiting our entrepreneurs, with what we've achieved through Covid's donations, along with 300 million kunas that will go for the Reskilling, Upskilling and employee education, to raise competitiveness, with all the action that HGK, here, I mentioned Ukraine, I believe that there are absolutely similar markets. We'll open, and this morning the Director of the Employment Office told me that there were 2500 workers from Ukraine last season, we hope that they will be available to me as long as it takes the economy without, of course, jeopardising jobs in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82605	Thank you very much. No more replicas Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And now he's coming, and now it's Mr. Domagoj Hajdukovic's turn. Look at that for, microphone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82606	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, just a few more observations on this Law, generally a chamber system perhaps a few things to think about and our ministry colleagues. So first of all, I would like to demystify these amazing markets where the HGK so successfully penetrates Croatian entrepreneurs. I'll bring you back, I'll come back together with you a dozen years ago when I talked to, after talking to some Russian diplomats, their representatives in Croatia, and then I've had the opportunity to talk to the members of the management of Podravka at the time and I've talked to them about the big Russian market, how the Podravka has to dominate, how we have a reputation here, so there's some memory that we've already exported to that market, that it's a very grateful market, etc., etc., which these people just listened to me with a smile and then said, Domagoj, we can't predate or be a serious player, we can actually be a serious player in the Moscow market. We can still forget because Russia is so big, and we're so small. My colleagues and colleagues, here we are, taught this experience, and then the later ones that came, I'm just going to ask you rhetorically, and what are we going to do about it in China, Russia, Indonesia, Malaysia, Australia, the United States, etc.? Are we going to make wine that we don't make enough for our own purposes? Or olive oil that we don't produce enough for our own purposes? Or is it honey that we don't make enough for our own purposes that we export as raw materials? Or is it a tree we can't even process that we're exporting as logs? So don't, please, don't make me laugh with fairy tales like this because these are really fairy tales. That's one thing. Another thing, Ukraine can still be seen as some logical market that is close, which is not that big and that is calling for some of the products that we offer. Other than that, if we're talking about China or some huge market, we can unfortunately forget about it with this kind of production right now because we don't have enough quantities, and to be a serious player somewhere, you have to have quantities. They won't take you away from one dealer and then have two months on the shelves of your product and then six months not. That's not gonna happen. And we with our quantities in terms of the market we're talking about, there's just no quantity. Therefore, on the other hand, the activities of the Chamber of Commerce have been completely missed. What is good and here I can say, from my own experience are again home fairs and targeted fairs in Europe, so we can talk in a nearby or medium distance neighborhood, so first of all we talk about economic activities. Many small economic operators cannot afford or find it difficult to afford with other costs of performances at fairs because the fairing, the physical fairing is still important for some jobs and this Chamber is really doing its part. But I need to draw attention to you that there, for example, much greater pain to this specifically gives the HOK which is much smaller, is different, for starters, is much more consensual with its membership than the HGK and can purposely organise performances. So on the other hand, HGK is really doing a good job, and I can't say there and there are some subjects that help. What's missed is when it helps large entities who could pay for it anyway and bear the costs, it's, of course, going to the expense of the smaller ones. But here, just in the perspective of the fairing, we see how many reckless moves there are, that is, the fairings, the performances, the representations, whatever you want, abroad. How much we are scattered, unfocused, how much money and energy we spend on very questionable to no results and how much more should we turn to some other activities. Although, I don't think this is a good bill of law, because it won't in principle improve the work of the chamber, at least not as we would like. Maybe this is an opportunity to force the chamber simply, to organise itself differently, means by initiative itself, to start thinking differently and strategically and to focus on what is available and realistic. Not unreal and no, inaccessible. So this may be a good opportunity to open these questions, but there remains a whole series of other issues, because as I said, if we reroute the membership fee from the budget, then we haven't achieved anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82607	Thank you. Mrs. Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82608	Thank you, Chairman. So, dear colleague Hajdukovic. It's hard to even think about restructure the chamber, as long as it's been run by the same people for many years, and it's the same people who are connected to some kind of party structure. As for the activities of the Chamber of Commerce, it is also insane to discuss this as long as these activities are defined by the state by its law and not by the members themselves. On the other hand, we impose mandatory membership on this law, say what the Chamber of Commerce will deal with, and do not introduce anything as a state control mechanism in relation to leadership and leaders within that chamber itself. In other words, here the state has mixed pots between what should be done by state institutional control and regulatory authorities, and what should be sufficient, voluntary will of the members themselves, in this case by the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82609	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82610	Thank you very much, so look at your colleagues... There's probably a lot to go on about the conflict of interest, but as soon as we dropped some of these definitions, let's say the connection according to the OECD... Who knows what might turn out to be? It will probably turn out that those in the Chamber of Commerce have never seen our colleagues and colleagues on the right or know who they were or have ever been in HDZ rooms. And we all know the situation is completely different. But as for the activities of the chamber, I have already spoken in my performance on behalf of the Club, that I think it is insane to leave diplomatic, pardon, economic diplomacy, to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. So it's just something that serious countries don't do, at least mine. So that's something the state prescribed, and who's funding it? At the end of the day, entrepreneurs. Also, members should decide what they need, which education, which fairs, however, is a rather rigid system that often does not allow it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82611	Thank you, Mrs. Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82612	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleague Hajdukovic. You did not demean Croatian businessmen, but also investors, for example from China. Obviously, you do not know how many businesses there are working in China, which there produce for some technological reasons and imports of products into Croatia, and also how many investors of the Chinese into the Croatian economy and who in this pandemic have also, thanks to these links, done a lot for Croatia when they have made it possible to supply medical equipment and supplies in the pandemic. Therefore, you obviously do not know how small the economy, the Croatian economy, is tough and strong.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82613	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82614	Thank you very much. Well, I know how tough and strong it is because it wouldn't have been here long ago if it weren't. However, there is a difference between Croatian businessmen and investors. Investors are not Croatian economic operators, at least until the moment they start producing or working here in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Yes, I would like to know what it is and how many Croatian companies are producing in China and then importing to Croatia again, I would indeed. The more China is not in the EU, the more you import it, the more it's not a real piece of cake. And finally, medical equipment is, as I recall was a gift from the Government of the NR China to the Republic of Croatia, not an entrepreneur or investor. At least that's right, they passed on the media, so the government boasted with great friendship with the Government of China, so I don't see where the investors or entrepreneurs are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82615	Mrs. Big Billic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82616	Thank you very much. A colleague of Hajdukovic's. Well, here you have mentioned the quality of the service of the Chamber of Commerce. And now we have a chance to discuss it and we've been listening to half a day on this side about a major reform. However, this amendment does not confer an obligation on the chamber to increase the efficiency of its operation. Which would actually be reform. So that would be a real reform. And here's what we don't see is what changes to the law of good will bring to the economy. So I ask you, do you see reform here or do you see that we're just talking about this, doing, let's just say the perception of the public that the role of the chamber is improving and that these changes change something?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82617	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82618	Thank you very much, colleague. If you're asking me what my opinion is, I'd say we're discussing here first of all for, I'm not going to say maybe blackmail, but the terms of a coalition partner, and a smaller, in the HDZ government, because now someone might have hit it in public, so he talked more than he should have. Here's my opinion. As far as the chamber reform itself is concerned, I said, any abolition, any imposition, in this case it is a mandatory chamber contribution to small economic operators, is commendable. Ali. If we're going to impose obligations on the chamber, and we're going to deny income, and if we're going to make up for the difference, so this, this revenue that's going to lose, we don't even have a clear projection yet, but if we're going to make up for it from the budget, then we haven't done anything again. Because Croatian entrepreneurs do not pay, Croatian taxpayers pay, and Croatian entrepreneurs are Croatian taxpayers. So, actually, we just went from hollow to empty.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82619	You don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mrs. Branka Juričev Martinchev's turn. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82620	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President, respected secretary of state with associate, colleague and colleague, so this Final Proposal of the HGK Act will most apply and bring the most changes to these economies of our so-called economy. the first group, members of the chamber having a total activity of less than 7 and a half million, the total income of less than 15 million kuna and less than 50 employees or at least 2 of those 3 criteria. There are as many as 96.7% of them in the chamber and their membership fee is 92 kuna per month. These middle ones who pay a little more than 1,000 kuna membership fee is about 3,700 while those so-called. large in third category who pay membership fees slightly less than 4,000 kuna 1,609. What I'd like to say more about is tourism. We know the share of tourism with related activities, which are trade, transport, agriculture, food industry, construction and thus reach 24% of GDP. Tourism is a major promotion of Croatian products and by smart investment in tourism we invest in the entire economy and enable Croatian citizens to have a better quality of life. Good results see and tourist seasons increase the purchasing power of our citizens and encourage consumption. When we look at the few figures the tourism department had taken care of, I would say about the members of its association, their associations in 2020 were 16.481 and almost 99% related to these very small ones who had a membership fee of 42 kuna per month, and only 192 in the second or third category. When we look at who they are and exactly what they are doing within tourism, or what association they belong to, we can see that the largest number of them is medium and large in the hotel association, they are 166 while the small hotelers are 3.315. The catering association is the largest number in this small group, in this first group there are over 5,000 while everything is in the second and third 61st. However, the tourist boaters' association does not have any boaters in the second and third categories all belong to this lowest. In addition to these associations we also have an association of marinas, an association of service providers accommodation on charter vessels, a travel agency association and a hostel association. So we can see that in the tourism department they deal with 7 associations and in 2019 they have taken care of 5 communities, and in 2020 they have 2 new communities, a community of business tourism and a community of river tourism. I have to point out that it's all done together by six employees because it's a big cry for how many people there are employees, they're very uglyly called earrings and things like that. As I have already said in the replica, they have given great importance in the adoption and adoption of certain laws and regulations. Thanks to them and their work and of course membership in different European associations and our and our economies could be part of these and large associations, such as the EU Travel Agency Association and Tour Operators, the European Heat Association, the European Association of Family Tourism, the International Council of the Maritime and Nautical Industry and so on. When it goes to the fairs, it certainly means a lot to the team that exactly HGK co-finances the exhibition space, and so in 2020, and we know what year it was they co-financed going to the Dusseldorf Fair which was in January 2020, then the Alpe Adria Fair in Ljubljana also in January last year, we had different projects of HGK or her with partners like the Days of Nauticals in Biograd. It is certainly important for our small businessmen that part of business education and education are concerned. Like what? only for the cycle of education for carriers and organizers tourism facilities were 204. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82621	Mrs. Sandra Bencic's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82622	Thank you. Here's a colleague I'd like to ask you, since you're still coming from a party that de facto proposes this law, are you on the trail of what we had before in the debate made or launched an evaluation of the impact of the HGK on the general business community in Croatia, especially on the potential for export and export of our companies. Whether there was any evaluation based on which we would go into the reconstruction of HGK or doing it the way we think we should, because we don't really have any evidence here what worked, what didn't work, and how we're going to improve it because we don't have an evaluation, we didn't get it on the table, right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82623	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82624	Thank you very much, so fellow Bencic here's what I told you I put the accent in my debate on the tourism department. And I asked them for a report, I got the report, and now that I saw that all this was taking care of more than 16,000, and in 2019 there were as many as 20,617 members who were cared about by the tourism department and there were only 6 employees, I wouldn't talk about their unhappiness, ineffectiveness, too many employees and so on. Maybe all you had to do was look for a report that you would naturally get to see full insight into each of the segments and departments of HGK.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82625	Mrs. Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82626	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, we all strive to improve the functioning of the Chamber by this law. It's an institution with a long tradition and of course we need to strengthen it. You mentioned yourself in your debate, but I will also give an example from my county that even so far worked in the county chamber, so I will set an example of the Brod-Posavina County where 5 employees of the County Chamber with the average salary of an expert co-worker of 6 and a half thousand kunas were doing: so we were coordinating the schedules on the county lines before the introduction of public service cca around a thousand timetables, 2 and a half thousand compulsory complaints, before entering the European Union we issued over 6 thousand permits at the county level of the chamber. Now that's about 2,000 and over 100... Certificates of origin of goods, entry of enforcement in real estate registers, movables, processing of statistical data, economic movements towards activity, according to number. [[You don't understand.]] Furthermore, various promotions were organized.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82627	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82628	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Members of Maximchuk, here I was also talking about that only six people are employed and run the tourism department, and how much does it care how many members and how many activities are there? When talking about figures at the same time, I couldn't finish, just for business education at a few seminars I don't know only one conference had as many as 450 participants talking about the interest and quality of the conference of travel agency and coronaryvirus yesterday, today and tomorrow where the measures for the liquidity of the travel agency, measures to preserve jobs, vouchers for package arrangements and individual services, cro-cards etc. I think that although they now have little freedom that they can but do not have to pay membership fees that many of them will still decide to pay membership fees and of course it will have to do a little more work in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82629	Thank you very much. I hope there was a video conference if there were 450 of them. Okay. Mrs. Nadica Dreven Buddinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82630	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here it is, we heard today a very good debate both for and against. I would only refer to this law and support this Law very well, if anything else to abolish membership for these small entrepreneurs who can determine whether to pay membership fees or not. And it is good that after 30 years something changes in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. So this is what the Chamber must adapt, the Chamber must monitor trends especially when we enter the European Union, especially when and now this digital part must be placed in the Chamber of Commerce. And I can say that these small entrepreneurs were not questioned by the 42 kunas of no great membership, but simply they felt that they were negligible and could not reach the Chamber. That's why I'd look back now. We've got county chambers. Since I come from northern Croatia means the Varazdin County which I can say about the economy is quite well-placed, has high exports, quite good employment and of course I can say there is also a very involved County Chamber of Commerce which can really tell the services and units of local self-government which are partly and the largest holders of these business and business zones and of course the owners who want to invest and come to the Varazdin County. So I'd just look back when you're going, I'd say. as an entrepreneur if I wanted to come to one county, I would certainly be interested in some reference to this county as regards economic investment. So when you click out the Varazdin County Chamber of Commerce then you see that everything here is beautifully shown where all business zones are, what is the density of the population, the total revenues of the county, the external trade. So when you see that external trade is from 123 countries, so it's all about what economic indicators are, the structure of the total income of the economy, the most significant industrial branch in the trade, the weight of the Varazdin County economy in the manufacturing industry, and the further development of the industry is based on all those activities assessed by the Varazdin County Chamber that it is important and 8 good reasons why it would be in the Varazdin County. So one part of all that when you study it is also some indication of whether you're going to come to that county, whether you're going to invest there or whether this is going to happen. Now that we know that with this Croatian Chamber of Commerce is losing 60 million is somewhere about how many of these 96% of small entrepreneurs who may be determined to pay, but we count that 96% will not pay. But we have both high and high. So we have 3 thousand 707 medium and a thousand 609 large entrepreneurs who are indeed those who are one of the major contributions of some contribution and the contribution of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. Here's how much I'd like it now. I think the law is good, the law is there at least something is going on as far as the Croatian Chamber of Commerce is concerned and that it probably still has to be developed, that it will probably still have to be adapted to the market and trends. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82631	Thank you, too. The first replica of Mrs. Dragon.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82632	Thank you, Vice President. counterpart Dreven Budinski, the fact that the Croatian Chamber of Commerce is necessary for the Croatian economy. You have been engaged in economic activity longer than this applicable, existing Law on the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. That means more than 30 years and you probably paid the membership fee. And here's back not to say it, and for a year the opposition has been polyming how to lift the imposition of membership fees that financially endangers our businessmen, so please tell me if your membership fee was a financial burden and would you, even now, have been paying the membership fee under this new law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82633	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82634	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Here's 33 years with a total of these private entrepreneurship waters and really here we've been paying membership fees, and believe me, since I'm more this little entrepreneur and it's not some big membership fee, but trust me, now that this bill is coming and we're going to study the benefits of what we get and what we lose, we're probably going to decide to stay and pay that membership fee, which is certainly what I can use for that membership fee or what I'm going to lose if I'm not going to pay that membership fee.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82635	Mrs. Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82636	Comrade Dreven Buddinski, here first to draw attention to an unusual situation, and that is that as little as our wife is in the Assembly, there is only a woman at the HGK debate. We might as well make a deal, and then we'll do something about it. Chairman, you have another function, you're here because you have to be. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you for the compliment, Mrs. Bencic.]] But good. [[Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come ……]] I wanted another thing I asked your colleague before. So, in the very proposal for a law on first reading, it was pointed out that it is going into the transformation of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce in a way that it becomes a better service to the economy even in the sense of a fairer distribution of these services to different business entities. My question is, in fact, how can we go into any transformation, some kind of major institutional procedure, and we don't have an external evaluation of the work we've done so far based on which we would know what it is that we need to transform. That's my question. Why do we always go into some kind of process without having an evaluation of what we've had so far?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82637	Thank you very much. Please respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82638	Thank you, dear colleague Bencic. Here's what to answer. We have to be patient, we'll see this, and I really can't answer you because I don't have that information to tell you about that evaluation or transition. But I think it always shows whether that law is good or not, that that law should be complemented. I am always convinced that every law regardless of which government is and which option is on the government momentarily and that it is not all so black as to, here listening to this afternoon's individual debate of our colleagues is not all so ugly, nor is such crime, nor is such corruption in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. I think there's more good stuff and we shouldn't just pull out what's really ugly. Here I am now to be replaced here in the Parliament, only a few months. I've been a private entrepreneur my whole life, and I think you should be a little patient.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82639	Mrs. Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82640	Thank you very much, Vice President. I'm glad to know now that you were 30 and something you said years of entrepreneurs and you had to pay for membership in HGK. Now, from your point of view, we have mandatory membership, but voluntary membership, so let me put it this way. And you said they'd probably pay. I think that most small ones would still decide to pay membership fees, but that part now needs to leave the HGK to transform it, to attract as many small entrepreneurs as possible, to have that desire and will to pay the membership fee, to simply get a better, more effective service. Because so far from all these discussions we may not have said, but I think the HGK has turned a lot towards those medium and large entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82641	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82642	Thank you very much, dear colleague. The truth is, I think I could say that HGK snuck in, snuck in because 30 years didn't touch him, did what he wanted, and yet now in some way she came in and I'm sure a lot of them would decide to pay the membership fee. Why? Because we now have this digital chamber where you have to reach everyone, so the digital chamber will provide you with EU learning, e-legislation, e-mails, promotions, e-financing, e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-s. I think really, as far as that part is concerned, it's going to be hard for one small entrepreneur who's here to track it all and have time to follow it. Because you know what, entrepreneurs don't have time, they do. They work and then even if we had to follow all those laws I think it would be hard to, then they're wasting their time and they're just not taught. And now, there's a chamber that has to give them these services.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82643	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. Thank you very much. Now it's Mrs. Mariana Puljak's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82644	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues, I don't need to greet my colleagues because they're not here. He doesn't have a colleague. I'm exempting him from it by the chairman, so dear colleagues. Here I will repeat Article 4 of this law again, first paragraph of this Act: “Membership in the chamber is mandatory for all legal persons performing economic activity based in the Republic of Croatia. [[Intruder Radin: The Chairman is incomplete.]] Here it has been repeated several times and even in a public debate is being held here somewhere as an answer states, the subject of this Law is not necessarily membership in the Chamber. Here, this is Art. That's exactly what 4th century 1 says. Membership in the Chamber is mandatory for all legal persons. In that sense, we have also proposed an amendment that changes this item and we say, so membership in the Chamber is voluntary. Here, I hope you support that amendment. The second thing, to go to a colleague, Hajdukovic, who said, says that he is aware of this debate here on this law only on mandatory membership is deplaced because we are talking about an institution 180 years old and much deeper and wider problems, but why we are talking about mandatory membership and why such a storm has risen on mandatory membership. Well, actually, because it's the only way to shake up that institution because when you say, here's that the members who are here, by research, 70, almost 75% of them are not satisfied with the services that this organization provides, and when you say, here, you don't have to be members of that organization, and then the leaders of that organization and those who manage it immediately are afraid that all members will escape and will not be satisfied with anyone in that organization, and that this organization will eventually be able to reform itself, and that the organisation will start to organise and offer its services so that members are truly and satisfied with them because that members are satisfied, that this organization has done well, that the Chamber has been doing its job, that at the time of the pandemic has reacted as entrepreneurs expected it to react, would the small and medium entrepreneurs join themselves overnight in another organisation that it now has, I don't know, almost 20 thousand members? So that they were satisfied with the services of the Chamber, that they were satisfied with how they represent them in that organization, how they fight for their rights, how they fight, whether they represent their problems, how they stand up for them, would there be any other associations of entrepreneurs overnight? Do you think those who are now running these associations are concerned about whether they have no other business in life, but simply weren't satisfied with how the Chamber works and organized another organization. Another argument here for mandatory membership has been presented, says, the justification is therefore to collect data on economic operators, obtain representativeness, etc. Isn't that data already on 100 other sides? The state statistical office doesn't have that, the IRS doesn't have that, the IRS doesn't have any data on legal entities, economic operators. So we don't have them on 100 other sides. Doesn't the state already have that data on other databases? 21st century, I think it's time that it's finally with all this information, artificial intelligence, machine learning, quantum machine learning, Blockchain and what we don't already have in the 21st century, we don't go, we stop at the accumulation of databases on all different sides that are unrelated to each other and finally realize that dream, that the boy's dream that the state isn't looking for other things, not just to the Chamber of Commerce, that the state isn't looking for the data that it already has. Here they are again, I say in justifying this mandatory membership, list a lot of good things that the Chamber does, organises fairs, takes people to conferences, companies, exhibition spaces of salaries, help small and medium-sized people who can't afford it, absolutely agree, it's all excellent and it's something that needs to be, whether, support should be an economy, but it's no obstacle to abolishing mandatory membership.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82645	Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. [[Intruder: Here, thank you.]] Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Dalia Oreshkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82646	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, colleague of the council, only at this very moment in Parliament. So this is another one in a series of laws that can really be asked a question that is its true intensity and purpose. This is still just one in a series of announced reforms that are essentially not. What the Centre Party advocates is a rational, well-organised, functional, efficient, and economical public administration and the termination of practices that create some kind of para-state institutional bodies. When we talk about chambers, very often some practice is taken as an example from other countries, however, we never go to the end in that partnership, and we have never made it clear and determined what it means to be a voluntary member of certain professional organisations or something that drives you to the state. Through the HGK, the state is still trying to have an economy in its fist and impose rules on them as it suits the state. It also shows here that the state, as I have already said, is mixing pots between tasks that should be nominally carried out by the HGK with those tasks that are already being done by other authorities and institutions. One of them is, as was the case in previous debate, the collection and analysis of data on economic operators. So it doesn't have to do HGK, we already have the Statistics Office. Then there is the alleged education of economic workers. I ask the question, and then what about the tasks and powers of the Employment Service and all the projects that are being carried out in this regard? Anything else that the HGK does in terms of its prescribed institutional powers, we have already set up somewhere else in the system and is really asking the question, and then why double, this kind of duplication function. There is no real purpose of mandatory membership except in what I believe may not be seen at first sight, and that is that only paying the membership fee is, in fact, indirectly reserved as mandatory. Namely, what it's about. Although we have now introduced for this first group of entities the possibility of not paying membership fees, it is clear from other provisions of the law that individual rights in the chamber itself can only be realised if membership is paid. So we're asking again why you're not a provision. 4. redefined in accordance with the requirements of not only opposition MPs, but also the economics themselves. So, as I said, this is just one in a series of declared, declared reforms. Especially those advocated by Mr. Transparent. And that basically there is no reform, and there is no fundamental change. It is mandatory to join, but if you cannot exercise your rights, you cannot achieve the benefits of that association, which, or organisation, should serve you, if you have not paid the membership fee. At the same time, other professional associations and organisations appear on the market which provide all these same services for much less. Equally quality, in many segments and much more quality. This is why the law, with its amendments and additions, is so designed, exactly what laws should not do. So meddling in some kind of private relationship, those groups that know a lot better what they need and what they need.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82647	Thank you, too. We're moving on to final examinations. The first is Mrs. Dreven Buddinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82648	Dear Vice-Presidents, eh Vice-President, State Secretary, colleagues and – no colleagues, well. Final proposal of the Law on the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. The Chamber is an independent professional business organisation of economic operators established for the promotion, coordination and representation of common interests and the resolution of their rights in the country and abroad. The bodies of the chamber are the Assembly, the Management Board, the Supervisory Board and the President. The Croatian Chamber of Commerce is one of the oldest and most influential independent, professional organisations, which advocates the mandatory membership model prescribed by the Law on the Croatian Chamber of Commerce for all legal and physical persons performing economic activity based in the Republic of Croatia, as it thus ensures their political neutrality and independence. It is clear that the past period of 30 years since the date of the adoption of the Law on the Croatian Chamber of Commerce requires certain changes in the system and adaptation to new trends and needs in the economy. The proposed model has also been recognised as one of the models in part of the EU Member States, and analyses have shown that membership in the chamber ensures entrepreneurs to use a range of services and achieve goals that could not be achieved on their own. Thus, most members, i.e. 96.7% of them, pay a membership fee of 42 kuna per month, for which they have the right to use most of the services unlimited, such as: databases, legal information, logistics, lobbying and marketing services, organization of business meetings, consulting services for projects, funding from EU funds and so on. The Chamber shall exercise a number of public powers conferred on specific regulations. Bringing a new legal framework is a function of increasing the engagement, proactiveness and quality of the chamber and its transformation, and an efficient and efficient service to the economies. Entrepreneurs need to be given a better and fairer position in order to carry out a referendum, a reform of an existing system that is not satisfied by a certain part of the members because the mandatory membership conditioned by the payment of membership is experienced as an additional parafiscal imposition. In a non-regular part of the law, which states that membership in the chamber allows entrepreneurs to use a range of services and achieve objectives, which could not be achieved independently, in order to free the payment of membership to the most numerous part of members, micro and small economic operators, further stimulate the modernisation of the chamber system. The subject matter of this law is not the introduction of voluntary membership, but the model of setting memberships before which members are classified as three groups. The improvement of the services the chamber will provide is projected to achieve better results and benefits for economic operators and chamber members, which will ultimately reflect the revenue aspect of the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82649	Thank you, too. Ms. Marijana Puljak in front of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82650	Thank you. Here we go again, for the end, so. On the first current morning in this term of Parliament, so my first current morning, the first current hour I attended, I asked the Prime Minister when the government would abolish mandatory membership, i.e. the members of the HGK and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the tourist communities. Then instead of a decent answer, I will, I won't, I won't, we won't, we won't cancel, I've got a salve of attacks from the Prime Minister because obviously these issues have caused a lot of anxiety. So he's upset by the suggestions when some of these intrinsic institutions in this country, whose members are wondering what they're serving, change to voluntary membership, so not that the institution or these institutions should be abolished but that they should move into voluntary membership regimes. As I mentioned earlier, according to a study published on Telegram.hr on a 500-entrepreneur sample, a representative sample of them, as many as 92.5% said they would not pay HGK membership fees. As far as the quality of work is concerned, 77.4% of respondents are not at all satisfied or not satisfied with the work of the HGK, which suggests that the HGK would now not survive in this form if there was no mandatory membership, mandatory membership. Now I'm going to say some of the research findings here, so that was the basic problem. The main problem is the misunderstanding of the role and services provided by HGK. The engagement doesn't recognize 2/3 of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Small and medium-sized entrepreneurs have no contact with the Chamber of Commerce at all. 91% of them don't know the name of the referent who's in charge of them, 91%. 87% no one from HGK has ever contacted. Only 7% of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs have ever spoken to the HGK, the reason is to address urgent problems that are not part of the business daily, the possibility of exporting, contacts, court processes and so on. Almost no one's talking to the Chamber of Commerce because of an improved me-business. The amount of membership fee is not perceived as a problem but is a key problem value of services. So if there is no relationship, if there is no service provided to me every price is too high either that 1 kuna or 42 kuna per month. In order to increase values and justify the purpose of the Chamber of Commerce, it is necessary to increase the familiarity of services through interaction with entrepreneurs, for example. through the proactiveness of the referent, the referents, primarily improve the understanding of business consulting services and representations that help everyday work to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, adapt services to the needs of activity. So, when, therefore, all those services are mentioned here, good services are absolutely in agreement that the good that the Chamber of Commerce provides is obvious that by these findings most of the members of the Chamber of Commerce do not know about them, nor knows how to reach them, nor does the man whom they would address in that Chamber of Commerce to direct them into the services that the Chamber of Commerce provides. So that's what's devastating and why the chamber itself needs to be transformed. So the Prime Minister accused us, so we've heard from the opposition here, and from Mr. Hrebac, therefore, members of the coalition majority that we're breaking down an institution like HGK with destructive proposals, even though it's already quite clear now here and according to this survey that this institution has already collapsed on its own. It thus collapsed the party that has been leading it with its parapolitical influence for decades. This is best seen even from the document on the strategic development of the HGK from 2017 to 2022, so this document is still valid, today it is valid, so it is evident from this document that no strategic objectives set before the HGK have been met, and it is evident that the government has minimized the role of the chamber itself because it has established other bodies that should actually exercise the role of the HGK as an example. Hamag Bicro. Here I wanted to refer by finding one piece of information that everyone points out as excellent is that the HGK has recently reformed, which is that from 670 employees has been reduced to 370, and they have been detained or even improved. or even improved services. [[Intruder: Time, thank you.]] Well, it was a disaster. 300 people were too big. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82651	Thank you very much. Mr. Erik Fabianić, the representative in this case, the Social Democrats' Club, was finally not present, so he doesn't know what we're talking about. Here you go. They were just MPs so far, no.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82652	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, we are talking about the Law on the Chamber of Commerce. So what's repeatedly mentioned in this debate is that this is about reform. I would just like to know what reform this is because when we talk about reform, reform is when we reform something significantly, and even if this was about an institution like the Chamber of Commerce, the historical institution of the Chamber of Commerce, where, in fact, at the request of certain parts of the opposition, it was intended to do something that the obviously parliamentary majority did not want but to satisfy one coalition partner was voted upon by one conclusion that the law came to the agenda. Okay, but I'll also remind you of my first-reading debate, I'm still looking for reform. There's no reform here. If reform is a matter of releasing someone from paying membership fees to apologize it is not a reform in which part and to what extent, if it is the only reform then it is not a reform. Where's the institutional change in that? I didn't share the opinion of certain colleagues in the opposition but I said another thing. If you have a system, you have a tradition of not getting into the human part and oh, about other things and I could talk about it, but the fact is, if we're already going abroad, please don't. Please don't. The reason is very simple, my question is why does HGK not manage the register of commercial courts as public authority? Why is it not the economic chamber that issues credits or that every company has that any citizen can look at what its balance sheet or financial document is then provides a public service which is the same, I mentioned the currency register at that time, etc. for those countries that have it and that's it. So we don't have reform here. We only met one conclusion that was imposed by one coalition partner in order to satisfy the form. The form is satisfied. The essence is not satisfied. This kills the Chamber of Commerce because there is no solution for the Chamber of Commerce here. Here only the source of funding is reduced to something that is independent. But when you look at how, which is the structure of the Chambers of Commerce, then you will see that they are ruled by public companies whether they are local or regional, whether they are state-level and they... The Chamber of Commerce or its leadership, then this leadership, of course, through certain perhaps clienteleistic initiatives, may serve those who have set up independent. [[You don't understand.]] Of course they do it independently. However, we will not save the Chamber of Commerce. Instead of strengthening her by giving her institutional functions. But what? But then that means one other thing, that we're unloading FINA, we're dispensing a trade court that could do other things. But from once-in-a-lifetime institutions, we preserve everything. The Chamber of Commerce has the longest tradition. What's FINA doing today? FINA used to do a payment service. The banks are doing this service today. But we had to keep FINA, the former SDK had to keep him, and then we gave them what others do to the chambers of the economy. We have a trade court. The trade court should deal with all other matters rather than with the company register. But there we are. We have to have a Trade Court, we have to have a FINA and we have to have a Chamber of Commerce. And where's our institutional reform? There's not even a letter of R in Hrebak, but it's "Hebak", because we've passed a new law where we change membership. That's our reform, that's how we preserve the Chamber of Commerce? I'm afraid I don't think the story is going to end here, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82653	Thank you. And now Mrs. Sandra Bencic is also finalizing on behalf of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82654	I thank the chairman. I'm not going to misjudge your gender or gender this time. So I wanted to finally say a few things that we pointed out in the first debate, and what the role of HGK is. We in the green-left bloc do not think that bodies like the Croatian Chamber of Commerce should be left to the market and then see what happens to them because we think they meet one of the country's positive obligations in relation to constitutional obligations, fostering economic and social growth in the Republic of Croatia and development. So when a state has a certain positive obligation, it implements it through some of its bodies and some of its institutions, such as the ministries. However, this has also been transferred to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, and it has always not only played a freely elected association of economic operators in Croatia, but it also has a certain way of saying that the agency functions or performs certain agency tasks for the state, or what agencies do otherwise, whether they are ministries or really agencies, etc. ... I mean those institutions of the state. [[You don't understand.]] And the hybrid role remains here. However, this is not so much a problem for us how much of a problem we are really having in this approach, but also in the approach of some other reforms, which is that we're starting to transform something without getting evidence, therefore, of those verifiable indicators, verifiable evidence of what was not good in the previous period of action of that institution, which was good and to get that feedback from different stakeholders. So from those who work in that institution, those who previously led that institution, and most of the different groups of users, and that is not such a great effort. It requires a certain amount of time, asking for some money, but come on in this case around HGK, so it's not like that... I think we could have given ourselves 6 to 9 months to carry out an honest evaluation of that institution once in 50 years, so that we would know really because what we want to transform it into and what the role of the HGK is in achieving this constitutional obligation of the state to create a positive environment for economic growth and development, and then maybe we would know a little better, and then the solutions would be different. [[You don't understand.]] Because look, we here, I think I'm going to ask an absurd question right now. How do we know you're doing just fine for all these little membership fees? How do we know that? Because that's how it was spoken in the media, because it was pressure politically let's be realistic. We don't know that we've offered a different range of services which is what a small and micro would like to pay, which medium would like to pay, which big ones would want to pay we don't know. We're gonna do it like this, so we're gonna cut 90% off. They'll pay big, but we don't really know why. I'm not saying that maybe it's not necessarily good. Maybe we've been stabbed like a blind chicken, and maybe we haven't. The problem is we're acting like a deadlocked chicken and we expect to stick that's my policy approach problem. I think that the Croatian Chamber of Commerce still has in this new period which is ahead of it is actually one important task that we are not talking about the same, which is its role in encouraging new and helping new forms of economy, new forms of economy that are being created that are important for the overall economic development and achievement of this purpose. How it supports the development of the social economy, how it supports the integration of economic operators dealing with the social and social economies with those involved, so-called. this standard and how does it connect them to external markets? How does it create that space? We don't know that. We didn't see that coming in this transformation. So some of the new things we were supposed to bring in, we didn't. And what is another important issue, which is which institution in Croatia is actually responsible for providing both economic operators and citizens with information about foreign owners of the company? Real owners. The ultimate owners, because it's not the Court Register, that we understand each other. That's not the Court's court register. Which is the institution we're actually asking, and when is foreign ownership of the ultimate property, how do we know then which is... [[Intruder: Time.]] Where do we get this information? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Thank you very much.]] We haven't worked that out yet. [[Thank you, ma'am. Bencice.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-13-0.u82655	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when we get the options. Tomorrow, colleagues and colleagues, and colleagues, colleagues and colleagues, er, tomorrow at 9:30 Final proposal of the Law on the Implementation of EU Regulation 220/1503 on European providers of joint financing services in the emergency procedure and then further, but we start with that. Thank you very much and good night. Session interrupted at 1910 hours.
