ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u27289	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. These days we can also hear from the officials of the Government of the Republic of Croatia their statements in the media when they talk about how there has never been better in Slavonia, how the project Slavonia gives unprecedented results, how young people in Slavonia not only stay but also return, how flowers bloom, as they say in the words of that famous film and our company, that is, in our region. But what is really happening and hiding behind this cover of the Slavonia and the Government's impotence project, not so much not even the impotence but the lack of vision, which, with such a devastated region, is done. I'll tell you, no social home, no school hall, nothing a whole series of infrastructures that no one will ever use again if we don't quickly break out of this lethargy, and if we don't see that Slavonia isn't five to twelve, it's already half one. The latest example in all of this is a familiar announcement of the restoration of the main station in Osijek. All those who have seen the Station in Osijek will agree that such restoration is necessary. It's a building that's been falling apart for years, which we've repeatedly warned is really more than necessary. But at the same time, colleagues and colleagues, it best outlines the project Slavonia. As we rebuild the station building, we lift the railway lines. Day 23. 12. In 2020, Croatian passenger transport quickly abolishes several routes on the HH network between other trains 702 and 703 on the route Osijek-Rijeka-Osjek, or the only couple of trains that directly connects Slavonia with the Adriatic coast, which are drawn as regular trains of the timetable in 2020 and 2021 which came into force 13. 12. 2020. With this act, Croatian passenger transport actually left the entire Slavonia without the only direct rail line to the sea, and until a few years ago we had three. One regular and two seasons. And now you see, on the one hand we're rebuilding the station, on the other hand we're removing the lines. And it is Mayor Anusic, the minister, and government ministers as well as the Prime Minister who sees nothing controversial about it. What do we need a station building if we don't have trains? My colleagues and colleagues, the share of the passengers being transported by rail from year to year, despite the large funds that the government is devoting to subsidise the tickets, and it's falling drastically. Only from 2010 to 2019 did that share drop from 25 to 10%. Fifteen percent less. And that's the result of actually systematic not thinking about the railroad. As the government speaks on the one hand about how this mandate will mark major investment in the railways, I can show you the speed of HZ infrastructure from 18 February this year with a list of lines that are temporarily or until further notice. The excuse is colleagues and colleagues, pandemics. But I really don't see why lines that serve local needs, i.e. micro-regional, regional, and then global, if we talk about Croatia, are lifted because of the pandemic. Is the excuse that the passenger doesn't have or that we don't know what to do with those lines, we don't know what to do with the railroad. Okay, maybe the agendas need to be updated a little bit, maybe they need to be refreshed, maybe they need to be reconsidered, but colleagues and colleagues, taking the lead in the experience, once you cut something out, you'll have a very hard time coming back, and now it would take me another 10 minutes to read you all the lines that are temporarily or until further notice, which is local, which is international, which is globally Croatian character. And here we bring, we actually come to the policies of our government, not only towards the east of Croatia, but towards all of Croatia. We build and rebuild the grand buildings of the station, and we take out trains, if we build buildings to stare at empty buildings without people, and not perform the tasks we should do. It is a question which I now ask to you, the Croatian public, but also to the HDZ government and their concern for this state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u27290	Thank you. Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic will represent the position of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u27347	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. There is a lot of Dubrava in Croatia, there is probably a famous Zagreb Dubrava, and there is one Dubrava, less famous for the wider Croatian public, this is Dubrava near Sibenik. The suburban village of Sibenik. Otherwise, Dubrave was named after another old Slavic word deep and the oak tree is also used today for oak in some parts of Croatia, so Dubrava would actually mean oak forest or forest. There are still some forests in Sibenik's Dubrava, but this time in Sibenik's Dubrava there is nothing and a forest of power lines. This time it is about a masteral power line that should go from Trogir to Bilic, again not far from Sibenik. And it's all right that this power line doesn't go very close to the settlement, very close to the houses, and that the power lines of your electromagnetic radiation don't cause cancerous diseases. The World Health Organization has established, proved that these electromagnetic radiations of these, I think, are 220 kilowatts of power lines and are very dangerous to human health. And now in Croatia there are some kind of process as far-running is being built, so someone needs to issue a location permit. This time, the ministry of Minister Horvat, i.e. the Ministry of Construction, was issued with the blessing of course and the Ministry of Environmental Protection, i.e. Minister Ćorić. And the right of service has already begun, and they have begun to buy land there, or to pay people for passing the power line there. However, Sibenik-Knin County did not show itself about the process of issuing a local permit, as the town of Sibenik was not manifested, in particular the mayor Goran Spider and Mayor Zeljko Vujic are wisely silent. They don't care that as many as 360 inhabitants of Dubrava have signed a petition against the construction of this power line. They don't care. But even now they are coordinating the space and plan of Sibenik-Knin County, and later the spatial planning of the city of Sibenik with its already found state, i.e. with what is happening on the ground, which is the construction of a power line. Not only that, but the town of Sibenik and the County of Sibenik-Kninska will need the opinion of the legal authorities in the process of adopting a spatial plan, and one of the legal bodies that will need an opinion is the HOPS, and the HOPS is the Croatian operator of the meaning of the transmission system, that is, the one that does so. I hope those who are watching this figure out what's going on. So we have an absurd situation of cadiya suing you, cadiya judging you. The CAPS itself through the ministry issues a permit, and later the county asks whether it should be included in the spatial plan, and is already working as if it were included in the spatial plan. So it's a situation that's extremely delicate. I'm not going to talk here about that it's also a landscape damage and that these far-running landscapes are very well-armed, and the Sibenik dubrava is a beautiful pie valley that is now mutilated by power lines. But I will offer a solution. In a conversation with experts on this work, I learned that this power line can go underground and that radiation is then minimalized and that there is no such danger to human health. So, from this point on, I call on all institutions above all the Sibenik-Knin County and the city of Sibenik to protect their citizens, to protect their health and to listen to any of their people, their citizens what they want. And, of course, here I call on the Ministry of RES and Minister, of course you always have one person in charge, and let Andrej Plenkovic see what he's doing. Well, you can't exactly do everything in this country like any minister ever does.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u27465	13 hours. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.59 HOURS]] First on behalf of the Homeland Movement, Mr. Daniel Spajic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u27466	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. Today, we're going to talk a little bit about the criminal activities that have been done in the city of Gradin, which is on the premises of my county of Virovitica-Podravska. Gradina municipality has 3850 inhabitants in 11 settlements and municipalities according to the last census in 2011. They settled with the number in 1857 when we had 3538 residents, with the highest in 1953, 9521. That's the State Statistics Service's data. With the census to be held or should be held this year and estimates, in the municipality of Gradina there is doubt that there will be more than 3500 inhabitants if we also consider the population that has the place of residence, Gradina Municipality went abroad to work for economic existence. It is estimated that there are 2800 inhabitants in the municipality, which is devastating for all residents living in it. For this demographic downturn and eviction, we directly hold responsible those who have managed this municipality for the last 30 years, and this is the HDZ party. Namely, the way the Municipality of Gradina has been working, only in the last 15 years, can be said to be an example of organised non-transparent management of the municipality with one goal, which is to extract municipal money from residents and municipalities and through various projects and construction works that are suitable and directly negotiated with contractors and paid multiple of the real market price. We will list only some of them and call on all the institutions of this country to examine these allegations. Rehabilitation of the dump where 2.1 million kn was agreed, the works carried out were at the end of 6.2 million kn, where it was promised that the Ministry of Environmental Protection would cover the difference but the ministry covered only 240,000 kn and still no one knows where the difference was from 3 million and 860,000 kuna. Rehabilitation of roads that were done non-transparently and multiplely paid with the same those contractors who worked at the garbage disposal. Building a parking lot outside a cemetery that's been paid three to five times what it was supposed to be. Rehabilitation of the roof over ruined sports facilities where the same way was done non-transparently and multiplely prepaid. A detailed renovation of the regional school in Rusani with a change in the entire new roof that spent a million dollars and that same school collapsed after 2 years. Three students go to that school today. Construction of morgues in our municipality, which cost some between 800 million and 200 000 kuna. Non-transparent distribution of agricultural land according to HDZ party card model, especially to municipal councils and to the chairmans of local committees by villages where there is an obvious conflict of interest. The signing of the municipality as a judge in giving loans for the purchase of equipment and machines to various contractors in our municipality and expensive cars from which Gradina Municipality was also financially blocked, etc. They could be listed for a long time, so this way I invite journalists and all the competent authorities to examine the work of the Gradin municipality, which is one of the most underdeveloped municipalities of Virovitica-Podravska County. Virovitica-Podravska County is the most underdeveloped in the Republic of Croatia and Croatia is the second most underdeveloped country in the EU. For all the above-mentioned and unlisted activities in the Municipality of Gradina, young people no longer see their perspective and in the last 2, 3 years there has been a plague of emigration and going abroad and other cities of the Republic of Croatia because we know that they are no longer leaving for just one family member but are leaving the entire family and are no longer returning. We all have to wonder what this is all about and how long it's gonna be like this? This kind of management of a municipality can be characterized as washing machines for money laundering and the convenience of various local sheriffs who pay and live their assets with this money, give that money through which black funds to continue to remain in power. I once again ask that all state institutions examine these activities because there is evidence for these actions. It is known that the state's attorney in Virovitica-Podrava County sleeps a winter dream So I'm calling him this way to activate a little bit, thank you very much. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u27467	Thank you very much. Ms. Anka Mrak-Taritash will be the position of the Centre and Glass Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u27541	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the respected few of us most resilient. Everyone who deals with politics, whether daily as a profession, whether journalists, or as interested citizens, knows that politics is often seen as pure fog. It is sometimes really fog, but we must be very careful, because behind that fog is still hiding some content, ideas, laws, and people who determine what life will be like. Therefore, we must be able to look below and beyond this fog and discern what is important and what will affect our daily lives. But regardless of all our efforts to find some content, which way is fog after all. That's the case, for example in Zagreb. For 20 years Zagreb has been living in the fog of bad politics and non-existent decisions, but the peak of these really funny, but in fact the regrettable symbols of this fog is a machine for production, no less than fog. The machine paid for 766 thousand kuna, or more than 100,000 euros. So, I'm not kidding, the fog machine costs 766 thousand kuna, because I guess you needed more fog around the city administration. Namely, the fog machine is part of a monument to the homeland located between the Vatroslav Lisinski hall and the City Administration building. With a total of 100 jets, this machine produces nothing more than fog. Otherwise, 100 mills means each cost a thousand euros. Of course, the fog machine can't just produce fog for free. Well then there is a contract for its maintenance, which amounts to a thousand and a half kuna a day, all in the city, which will mark the first anniversary of the earthquake in 4 days, and thanks to the same city administration with fog jets of EUR 1,000 per piece, no more bricks have been moved to rebuild the City of Zagreb. Now, some of you, even though we're getting smaller and smaller, I guess in the end there's just gonna be a speaker for this pay phone, think what that has to do with the assembly. This is a speech about local elections, but even if it were, this has a lot to do with the assembly. Thanks to these and such fog machines that have led Zagreb to bankruptcy in this year, many of the HDZ deputies were MPs, and Prime Minister Plenkovic was prime minister because he should not forget that the last meeting of parliaments had probably experienced the worst episode of political corruption ever, famous tokens. Well, it's not bad to remind ourselves of the case before the local elections, considering that now many claims were something else and on some other side than the one they were on. As in the casino, so in politics, chips are not free or cheap but very quickly they become very expensive only the question of who is at the end of the pay fee, and in this case they are paid by Zagreb and Zagreb. To hold the HDZ in power, the late Zagreb mayor received votes in the assembly and free hands to do what he wanted. It was such a wonderful symbiosis of the prime minister and mayor dressed in fog. And what has been done and what has been the consequences of this policy, in which both the word and the work and the presence of HDZ, the public will learn more about it only after the May local elections. Of course, there is now a questionnaire on whether it will be held in May. But no matter what we learn, the symbols are already very well seen. One year after the earthquake, there's no recovery, but that's why we pay 1,500 kuna a day to maintain the fog machine. HDZ maintenance in the state of Zagreb and Zagreb have paid very dearly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u27542	Thank you, too. Mr. Nevenko Barbaric will be the position of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u27642	... My colleagues. [[Specially enabled.]] The position of the Croatian people in BiH, the constitutionality, legitimacy of representation, equality, amendments to the electoral law, unfortunately, are still dominant topics on the political scene of BiH but also in general in public space. What has changed since the Dayton Peace Agreement that the issue of amending the BiH Election Law for the Croats is a question of survival, what BiH was created by the Dayton Peace Agreement and what is it like today? So, in short, BiH is the state of two entities, Republika Srpska and the Federation. BiH is a state of three constituent nations, Croats, Serbs and Bosniaks, short, clear and somehow different. It was created by the Dayton Peace Agreement and is an integral part of that peace agreement, i.e. 4th is the Constitution of BiH. The fundamental principle of the Constitution is the constitutionality of Croats, Serbs and Bosniaks, the mentioned constitutionality of Croats, Serbs and Bosniaks is the spirit or the essence of the Dayton Peace Agreement. The constitutional category of the concept of constitutionality consists of two components. The legitimacy of representation and equality of the people. The legitimacy of the democratic government is being won in the elections. If a nation is unable to elect its representatives in power and this happens to Croats, there is no legitimate representation, there is no constitutionality, the BiH Constitution is being violated, the Dayton Peace Agreement is being violated. Equality is seen through legal institutes, parity, rotation, consensus and the concept of veto. All of these were Croats until 2000, all of these are guaranteed by the Constitution of BiH today and still do not exist in reality. Under the pretext of BiH's creation as a functioning state, the real managers of BiH, so-called. High Representatives, imposing amendments to the Federation Constitution, impose amendments to the Election Law, all of this is contrary to the spirit of the Dayton Peace Agreement but also in disagreement with the constitution of BiH which leads to an absurd situation, that one people, Bosniaks, already three times select two members of the Presidency, which is certainly not imagined by the peace agreement. An even more absurd situation is in the election of envoys to the Federation House, so the changes imposed by Bosniaks allow 15 of the 17 envoys, 12 of the 17 in the Serbian club, 5 of the 7 in the club others, 5 out of 17 in the Croatian club. That's not all. So for the formation of government in the Federation, these changes no longer require a semi-half majority of each club but 1/3 to form power. In 2021 they decided that 5 out of 17, 1/3 and 4 years had power. This allowed Bosniaks to form power without one legitimate representative of the Croatian people. Now, has BiH become more functional? Never greater political opposition, disrespect for decisions of the BiH Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights, who is still talking about the return of refugees and displaced people, especially in economic recovery, demographics, eviction? What's left of the Dayton Peace Agreement? The key question is for sure how to proceed? Serbs agree that Croats have been disfigured, generously offer a third entity but do not want to change the BiH Constitution and the principles of the Dayton Peace Agreement, have Republika Srpska, nor will they discuss any changes, threatened with secession. The Bosniaks agree that the Croats, as they rightly say, are nervous, agree that the Dayton Peace Agreement and the BiH Constitution and the European Court of Human Rights verdicts, see the exit in the civil model, do not offer a solution, in nature want the internal BiH and BiH as they see it is contrary to the debt of the Dayton Peace Agreement, as well as the BiH Constitution. The international factor in BiH also agrees that Croats have been disbursed, offer no solutions or encourage an agreement. Finally, Croatians gathered around the HNS, have been offering concrete solutions for years, solutions to both the institutions and the academic community, solutions there are, are neither complicated, respecting the BiH Constitutional Court's ruling in the Ljubic case, the European Court of Human Rights in the Sejdic-Finci case. As a sign of goodwill, Croats agree to special election rules for Mostar by risking the loss of this for them to a prestigious city. They agree that the Croatian member of the Presidency, an envoy at the Croatian House club, and does not necessarily have to be Croatian but must have the legitimacy of the Croatian electoral body and ultimately, the minimum under which the Croats will not and cannot be constitutional, is legitimate representation and full equality. Exiting from this anti-dayton, anti-constitutional situation No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] Encourages the firm position of the Republic of Croatia which does everything for the survival of the Croatian people, gives strong support [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much, time.]] The Euro-Atlantic route of BiH. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u27643	Thank you, thank you very much. And now, in the end, Mr. Miro Bulj will be the position of the Most Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u27710	Thank you very much. I would talk here about the problems of investment in Dalmatia, i.e. not to worry about Dalmatia, mainly about Split-Dalmatia County and Sibenik-Kninska, of course, and Lici and Dubrovnik-Neretva County, because I cannot believe that the Croatian Government and the excessive influence of the people who are currently in high positions are mainly here, for example Vice-President of Parliament Ante Sanader who has both scissors and money. It has all meaning set, all that can not solve the basic infrastructure problems needed in the Split-Dalmatia County area. I would point out here that four years ago, the government was in Split. The session brought together significant projects to be financed over a period of four years. These are projects that mean life, so the roads of life. I'll mention them. For what? Because it is very important to connect the hinterland with Split examples of Sinj and the highway, Sinja Imotskia, Vrgorački tunnel, i.e. The Drvenik tunnel, towards Drvenik down from Ravca. So we have problems that are very important. Basically in these compounds, verticals on the highway, let's say the Chetin area and the very centre of the Cetin area, Sinj and the whole of the Dalmatian mountain, this area is most perspective for life because the Split swimming pool has become essentially overcrowded, overcrowded, built from Trogir to Omis is over-muffled. Therefore, it would be minimal to appeal here, for now to appeal once again that of the promised 2 billion kuna projects in the Split government four years ago, the government was held in Split, nothing. And at the same time, the Pharaoh of that county or what we're going to call him Franjo Tahi and County, Ante Sanader in Vučevica, where there is no one until the supposed future tunnel Kozjak invests 40 million kunas in the road from the exit of Vučevica if you were. Unfortunately, this policy of Ante Sanader and the like moved those people out of that place. They are now 40 million kunas, four track roads to their gardens, gardens. I don't know a little rabble, they've been buying a lot of it, but something hereditary, this, this, that's how they invest there. And in a Chetino area where 50,000 inhabitants are more than in Lika-Senj County, more than surface is larger than Međimurje County or Kuna. Except that he got fed up with Ante Sanader in an agreement with the Minister of Environment, Coric, to transfer the garbage from Vrgorec to the Cetina River. It's the only major infrastructure project that Ante Sanader really behaves like a feud in that county. It's not Boban's fault, he's the one, he's the man who binds the horse di his boss tells him, so it's such a man, and Ante Sanader manages and I'm sorry he's not here to hear this because it's embarrassing that Dalmatia, mainly the central part of which is the second city in Split and the most prospective area and on the development of tourism and with several projects as significant as the union of Sinja on the highway would approach Split, it would become the suburbs of the city of Split and thus be the most prospective environment for life from Savudrija to Prevlaka. The only thing neatly they know how to do is come at the time of "Alka", it's done by Ante Sanader, he comes up in the first round, you'll see him in the solemn lodge, he and the ones from... And the ones he's running for mayors and deputies right now, that's also his tied horse who your boss is telling you, who's gonna be serving and doing that job. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So numerous projects, let's say Sinj is D1, the state road Zagreb-Split passes through the centre of Sinja, we have a circular flow limited where all schools are center of Sinja, a circular stream limited by walking crossings where children go to school, so that they are kilometre columns. I proposed on that amendment, fought, spoke, but there can't be an underpass or any overpass or underpass, that's not what they want. But that's why they want to invest to their gardeners, 40 million kunas for a four-way road to their garden in Vukevica. That's what Ante Sanader and the government of Andrej Plenkovic give Dalmatia. They must be ashamed of them, and they won't be ashamed of them for a little while longer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u27711	Thank you. It is now up to Mr Marin Lerotić to present the position of the IDS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u27814	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, today we have the final proposal of the Law on the establishment of the University of Defence and Security. And here we have a situation that the Ministry of Defence, not the Ministry of Science and Education, proposes to mention the law even though it is about establishing a new university that is an educational institution. And not only is passing this law bypassing the Ministry of Education, but also bypassing the provisions of the Law on Quality Insurance in Science and Higher Education which creates numerous recommendations in the academic community. I'm just saying this to explain how the state can set up a whole new university when there's political will for it, even if it's not entirely in line with the procedures stemming from other laws. It is important that all Croatian citizens, especially Pula and Istria, who have been told from the state level for a long time that it is not possible to set up a Faculty of Medicine in Pula, although all the legal conditions for its establishment and the accreditation procedure by the Agency for Science and Higher Education have been met as a body responsible for assessing the quality of the study programmes. There are even additional conditions for cooperation with universities or the Medical Faculty in Split and Rijeka, as well as with the Clinical Hospital Centre in Split and Rijeka. Despite all this, the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development has denied prior approval for conducting an integrated study of pre-graduate and graduate medicine at Jurja Dobrila University in Pula, which brings us to a completely absurd situation, unfortunately characteristic of our country, and that is where everything is regulated legally and according to the rules of the profession as it should be to establish this university despite all the recommendations. And on the other hand, where we have a legal and professional completely clean situation like the Faculty of Medicine in Pula, that procedure is being halted. It is obvious, therefore, that today the educational and health system in Croatia is being used for daily political purposes, which is totally unacceptable and for the longer term means stagnation of the entire society especially when blocking the establishment of the Faculty of Medicine in Pula is placed in the context of our health care that is chronically lacking by employees. The city of Pula and Istria County have made major investments in the construction of the General Hospital in Pula and the Medical School in Pula have shown that they know how to recognize priorities at this time, and this is investing in the health system and education of the necessary medical staff and should circle the whole process. On the other hand, the state has no objective reason to block the establishment of an institution where future doctors should be educated, and we all know how many doctors we lack that we must even withdraw doctors from retirement to return to care for the health of our citizens. That's why I don't know which way from this pay phone colleagues and colleagues from IDS are calling on the government to finally introduce order into the system in order to stop the practice of double criteria where, in the event of the establishment of the University of Defence and Security, one rule applies, and when the Medical Faculty is set up in Pula, then some other rules apply. And in fact, they're literally making up reasons why that college doesn't start working.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u27815	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u39978	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. We're going back to work. Yesterday we didn't finish everything we planned because the debate on the second item of the agenda lasted until late, and today we will continue with the amendment law and the amendments to the Law on the provision of services in tourism, after which we will go on schedule as announced, and I will immediately announce that the fourth point of today, that is the Final Proposal of the Law establishing the University of Defence and Security, will work next week, and we will start next week on Tuesday, so it will be on the agenda, tomorrow we will do as we planned, the Annual Report on the work of the Agency for the Protection of Competition and then the vote, and before that we will declare the amendments. So at 9.30 tomorrow we start with a statement on the amendments, there are six so far, and I don't know if it's going to be what we're going to do today and then we're going to go with the announced agenda point, the vote, and then we're going to take the club position and the independent representatives. We will now, as I have announced, start with: - Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the provision of services in tourism, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 117; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85. The Constitution and the Art. 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Tourism, so I will now ask that, on behalf of the proposer, an additional explanation of the bill's proposal to the Honorable State Secretary at the Ministry of Tourism and Sports, Tonchi Glava. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u39979	The Honorable President of HS, distinguished MPs and MPs. It is my pleasure to present to you a draft bill on amendments to the Law on the provision of services in tourism. The current Tourism Service Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2018 and which was amended and updated twice in 2019 and once in 2020, provides for the way and conditions under which legal and natural persons can provide services in tourism. The amendments and additions to the laws currently in place before you are adopted primarily because of the 2 infringements of EU law against the Republic of Croatia, which has been initiated by the EU Commission and related to Directive 2015/2302 on travel in packages of arrangements and related travel arrangements in relation to vouchers and Directive 2006/123 on services on the internal market and Directive 2005/36 on the recognition of professional qualifications in relation to the regulated profession of the tourist guide. Both infringements of EU law are in the second stage of the infringement procedure, i.e. a reasoned opinion, i.e. at the last stage before the proceedings are brought before the EU court. In order to ensure the liquidity of tourist agencies, but also to protect the rights of passengers, including the right to return paid money for unexploited travel due to the pandemic of Covida-19 disease, the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Tourism Service Act was adopted in April 2020, which gave tourist agencies the possibility to issue vouchers for unexploited travel, instead of the obligation to pay money back to passengers within 14 days as prescribed by the Travel Directive in the package arrangements. Those amendments to the April 2020 Act stipulated that, due to the specific circumstances for the non-executive travel arrangements to be implemented after 1 March 2020, the passenger is entitled to terminate the travel contract in the package after 180 days after the date of termination of the special circumstances and the travel organisers shall issue vouchers to the passengers. If the passenger decides to recover the funds, the organiser shall make the funds paid within 14 days of the expiry of 180 days of the end of the special circumstances. Due to the uncertainty of the deadlines related to the discontinuation of the Covida-19 disease epidemic, by erasing the provision of a voucher, so to speak. 38a of the applicable law, passengers will be able to choose, by way of effect of the amendments in question, whether to arrange a replacement journey on the basis of the issued voucher or to terminate the contract and to exercise the right to repay the funds paid within 14 days of the termination of the contract. We point out that these amendments ensure the application of the level of consumer protection and full compliance with the Package Arrangements Directive. Allow me to refer to the comments made by the Committee on Tourism, so that the changes in question may be a burden on the travel organiser who, after the entry into force of these amendments, could be found in major financial difficulties. At its meeting on 4 February 2021, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a Decision on the adoption of the programme to grant state support to tourism and sports sectors in the current pandemic Covida-19, approved by the EU Commission and its Decision of 11 January 2021. The objective of the programme is to provide financial support to entrepreneurs performing activities in the tourism and sports sector in order to mitigate the effects of the crisis caused by the coronary virus on their business. The programme will be implemented by the Ministry of Tourism and Sports in collaboration with HBOR, HAMAG Bicro and business banks. The issue of state guarantees for credit ratings will allow easier access to liquidity by financial institutions in order to preserve the continuity of economic activity in the tourism and sports sector. On 9 March 2021, the Ministry of Tourism and Sports issued an invitation to entrepreneurs to use State aid programmes as part of the government's economic recovery measures. The total amount of the projected funds under that programme is one billion and 500 million kuna. The HAMAG Bicro and HBOR intermediate body will implement support in the form of guarantees for new loans provided for in Section 3.1, hence limited amounts of support, in the maximum planned amount of one billion kuna and in Section 3.2. in the form of guarantees for loans, at the maximum planned amount of 500 million kuna. Requests for loans to be secured by this guarantee may be submitted by entrepreneurs to all banks in the Republic of Croatia and the HBOR. It is further favourable that the interest rate on loans secured by this guarantee will be reduced by at least 0.5%, compared to the interest rate at which the loan would be granted without the use of the guarantee. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, according to the data received from the Croatian Travel Agency Association, during August 2020, 50% of the funds paid for unexploited travel, among the members surveyed, have already been returned to passengers independently of the legal provision and the possibility of issuing a voucher. Furthermore, regarding tourist guides, the National Reform Programme 2020 through the reform priority 4.1.1. improvement of the business environment with a view to sustainable economic growth and development, the liberalisation of services markets through facilitating access to regulated professions by removing barriers to freedom of business creation and providing services on the internal market. In this respect, and in order to comply with the Services Directive and the Professional Qualifications Directive, it is necessary to amend the law in parts relating to the regulated profession of the tourist guide. The infringement of EU law relating to the regulated profession of the tourist guide refers to the obligation to pass a specific part of the expert examination for EU and European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation which wish to provide services on a temporary or occasional basis. The relevant law, which has been in force since 1 January 2018, stipulates that a tourist guide from another EU Member State, the EEA and the Swiss Confederation, who wish to provide temporary and occasional services to a tourist guide in the Republic of Croatia, may provide them on protected sites and localities only if they pass a specific section of a professional examination which is now organised by county, so 21 exams. It is also prescribed that the specific part of the examination applies to protected units, localities prescribed by county and which, according to the applicable Regulation, has approximately 550. By a preliminary proposal to amend and supplement the law in Art. 7 words "in the county" are deleted from the applicable law, creating a prerequisite for a different way of organising and passing the very special part of the expert examination for tourist guides. In this part, I would like to refer to the comments made on the Committee on Tourism, which should already be regulated in the law by the way that the way in which the specific part of the examination should be organised now, in a way that is organised in place of, in the counties, so 21 special exams, by regions, are proposed 5 historically and geographically linked regions. According to the current law, a tourist guide who wishes to provide services throughout the Republic of Croatia had to pass a total of 21 specific parts of the expert examination and could be considered as restrictive for reasons of duration and financial burden when access to the alleged regulated profession is concerned. The expert exam for the tourist guide is currently subject to the examination committee in the relevant higher universities which carry out the least professional or university studies at the pre-graduate level in the field of tourism or have direction or teaching courses in the field of tourism, and in accordance with the Regulation on the expert examination for tourist guides. The new Regulation on the expert examination for tourist guides, whose adoption is scheduled by the end of June 2021, will accurately define the organisation of examinations for the tourist guide, and for the preparation of that Regulation, has been appointed by Decision of 8 March 2021 and a special working group containing representatives of higher universities conducting that expert examination, as well as associations of tourist guides and other professional public, so a total of 39 members. The first working group meeting was already held, so on 11 March 2021 instead of county, the Regulation will define the laying of a specific section of the expert examination according to one of the following three options. Special part of the expert examination for protected units and sites for the whole of Croatia, special part of the expert examination organised according to NUTS regions or special part of the expert examination organised according to proposals and outcome of the discussion in the working group. Since a special part of the expert examination will be dealt with by the section, we believe that the regulation would now, by means of the law of the organisation of the exams, one or more regions, prejudge the work and outcome of the expert working group, and that the subject of the requirement, of course, professional analysis of all actors. In addition, we note that, in accordance with the Law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications, the Ministry of Tourism and Sports in the process of adopting that Regulation is obliged to carry out both the assessment of proportionality and the consultation with the interested public on the same. Also, with the current proposal to amend and supplement the Law, in Art. 7 shall be complemented by an article. 70 century 3 of the current Law relating to persons who are citizens of the EU, the EEA and the Swiss Confederation who temporarily and occasionally wish to provide tourist guide services in the Republic of Croatia in such a way that they must pass a special part of the expert examination for tourist guides so as to protect the locality without the obligation to pass a general part of the expert examination for tourist guides. In accordance with the Law on regulated professions and the recognition of qualifications to which national legislation has been passed, the Regulation on regulated professions provides that the competent authority must for no reason restrict, for any reason relating to professional qualifications, persons wishing to provide services in the Republic of Croatia on a temporary and occasional basis, except in exceptional situations, and even then those restrictions must be proportionate and without discrimination. Therefore, the applicable law, which has been in force since 2018 by persons from the EU and the EEA and the Swiss Confederation in the Republic of Croatia, may provide tourist guide services on a temporary and occasional basis only if they pass a special part of the expert examination for tourist guides, is now 21 special exams for cca. 550 localities. Such persons in the Republic of Croatia on an annual basis have approximately less than 100 and provide services on an annual basis for an average of 2 to 3 weeks. Furthermore, the proposal to amend and supplement laws, protected units and sites will be defined as protected units, historical, cultural, artistic heritage, which is recognised in accordance with the case law of the EU Court of Justice as the dominant reason for the general interest in introducing additional conditions for the provision of services. Further, this will enable the adoption of an Implementing Regulation, a regulation that will be prescribed according to the proposals and outcome of the discussion within the working group, therefore for the making of the Regulation. I would also like to refer to another observation made by the Committee on Tourism on Definition, in the applicable law, language knowledge to a sufficient extent for foreign tourist guides and the need to regulate language knowledge according to standard levels, language knowledge, for example, level B2 of the common European language reference framework. Therefore, in the applicable law which has been in force since 1.1.2018, Art. 73. which is not, is not subject to the amendment and addition of this bill, but now results in the fact that the tourist guide needs to know the language in which to provide the B2 tourist guide services according to the degrees of the Common European Reference Framework on Understanding and Speech, the Croatian language to the extent sufficient to provide tourist guide services. As a visible measure is sufficient to provide tourist guide services, B2. These amendments and amendments make it easier to access the profession equally to future domestic tourist guides, as well as to EU and EEA citizens who wish to provide services in the Republic of Croatia. The transitional and final provisions also regulate the recognition of the already acquired professional qualifications of tourist guides in such a way as to enable them to provide services in accordance with established solutions for counties. Other amendments and additions to the law relate to the harmonisation of statements relating to the delivery of certain data from a solution to central register competent authorities, the registration obligation and the provider of rental-a-car services in order to combat the abuse of rental vehicles by users of the service for the purpose of human trafficking, and the regulation of certain infringement provisions for more effective conduct of inspection supervision, i.e. the State Inspectorate. The comments of the Legislative Committee are fully accepted and will be part of the final draft law. The Ministry of Tourism and Sports held a consultation with the public interested in the period from 8 January to 8 January 2021 to 7 February '21. for a period of 30 days. A total of 445 comments were received from the Ministry of Tourism and Sports and responded to the draft bill, so in a report published on February 12th. Of the total number of comments accepted, 95 comments were partially accepted, 232 were not accepted, and 121 comments were accepted. Namely, a large number of e-consumption participants made comments identical to the content of the Community's proposal to Croatia's tourism guides, which was delivered to the Ministry of Tourism and Sports during the draft draft amendments and amendments to the law. It should be pointed out that the Ministry of Tourism and Sports held 4 meetings with representatives of the Croatian Tourist Guides Community before the publication of the law on e-consultation, and at the last meeting on 20 November 2020. The bill itself has been presented. Most of the comments received on the draft proposal were related in the way of passing and content of the expert exam for tourist guides, which is not the subject of the amendment and addition of this bill, this is very important. The rules on expert examination for tourist guides and the list of tourist sites and localities will also be arranged. The smaller part of the comments related to the amendments to the law, which additionally ensures that consumers' full right to return paid funds for unexploited travel to packages for which travel agencies issued vouchers to passengers, and whose tourist agencies expressed concern during the possibility of paying money to consumers, as well as the continued liquidity of tourist agencies. I propose that HS adopt the Amendments and Supplements Act on the provision of services in tourism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u39980	I thank the Secretary of State. We have a request for a break from my colleague Zekanovic, so please, you can sit in your seat, later on with the replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u39981	Dear Secretary of State, I don't know if you've met, but Croatian sovereigns have prepared two bill proposals and put them in the process. Proposal for a law supplementing the General Tax Code and the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Tourist Tax Act, which concerns you. Namely, when the special conditions started, you last year allowed all tourist owners to pay only half the taxes for last year and you freed them from the first quarter of the tax and half of the tourist tax. This year, too, special conditions are in force, and we are still waiting for the ministry's mercy to be freed from the tourist owners of these gifts. We have suggested that these things are defined by automation, or when income drops are greater than 50%, or traffic declines, so that they are easily reduced by 50%, or tax. You can't pay taxes and pause for a favor that hasn't been delivered. So we invite you to take a quick look at these two of our bill proposals, and to bring them in because tourists in Croatia are mass cancelling their apartments. Secondly, the second thing about this law that I must warn you about, thousands and thousands of Croatian parents' families have paid for eight-year-olds' travel trips, but this return of money they received from the agencies since the excursions have not been achieved has been reduced, has been reduced somewhere by 20-25-30%. I'm interested in what the ministry thinks about it and why the agencies took 30% of someone's money, which is why, and that money is reliable, they didn't pay the hotel people, they didn't actually pay where the school kids were supposed to go on a field trip. This is something to be quiet about, and it is a huge financial blow to numerous Croatian families.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u39982	The apartment is approved. Comrade Bull, I see you're picking up, too, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u39983	Thank you very much. On behalf of the MOST Club, I am looking for a break of 10 minutes because this is about tourist services, this is about tourism and the importance of tourism, and especially about people who are having a hard time in tourism, and it will be harder and harder for them now, but you are so liberalizing this law that foreigners will also be able to do this job very easily, and our people will have to go to Ireland. So will in my Sinj during the Blue Alka in Dubrovnik, Split, in the attractive areas of Dalmatia, Istria, the entire coast, the continent, our sides, this stranger will be the guides? Is there going to be a foreign guide in Vukovar? Is it possible that foreigners will be the guides of those who attacked Vukovar, Dubrovnik, my Sinj and other cities? Why are you destroying our people in tourism, not just renters, in this case and tourist guides by affecting foreign foreigners? What are you so attached to? Why are you destroying our potential? A fellow Boric laughs instead of being the loudest, instead of being the loudest to protect our tourist employees, our guides. By this act you are essentially creating what this government intends to send to other countries, instead of our tourist potential being a development potential, not only in terms of tourism but also in terms of development branches that can be export branches in tourism, you are destroying and disabling the business of our tourist guides. What's he doing that for, who's going to explain it? What's the reason you're making this happen? Which is why you are destroying tourist workers, in this case by liberalising tourist guides because foreign citizens will be able to guide. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u39984	Thank you very much. The apartment will be approved, but I ask you not to address the representatives as “you” but as “you”, that is one custom we have, and I ask you to stick to it. Here's a colleague of Frankovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u39985	Your Honor, my colleague Bulj has been injured by an officer. 238 insulting Assembly representative Boris, noting that the parliamentary representative wants to discriminate against Croatian guides in some way. So we're in first reading today, we're discussing a law that needs to be discussed, and in advance someone's accusing himself of being against something.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u39986	My colleague Frankovic, it was not an insult, it was an attitude, it only bothered me the way my colleague Bulj did, using the term "you" instead of "you," and whether or not he was saying it, it would be estimated, of course, by the citizens. And my colleague, Boric, came forward for a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u39987	Thank you very much, Your Honor. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure of HS, which speaks of the fact that my colleague Bulj is not able to behave in the assembly again, has been speaking to me in person for no reason whatsoever, I don't know why, I'm probably his nightmare, constantly mentioning me for no reason, and I wanted to discuss with my colleague Frankovic only at one point the new concept that was introduced into Croatian, and these are foreign foreigners. So that's why I laughed, and he immediately concluded that we are against Croatian tourists guidebook. [[Intruder: All right, fellow Boric.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u39988	I said so, I warned my colleague Bulja, so the way he spoke was not appropriate, so there was no need for this breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Comrade Bull, and you're looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u39989	Thank you very much, Your Honor. You've hurt an officer. 238 because you remind me and always violate the Rules of Procedure di you always have comments, I have never told anyone like you that the trash, with that, you told the parliamentary representative that it's trash and so you, my colleague Boris and Frankovic teach me culture, please don't. I was sent here by the people, I apologize if I said something in enthusiasm, but I never told the council representative it was garbage, like you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u39990	Comrade Bulj, I warned you, I did not even give you a warning because you speak to another representative “you” and it will certainly not become a practice and I will warn you. And what happened before, I didn't say what you said for no reason because I was very rudely and uglyly attacked by the counsel you're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u39991	So you said from that phone booth to the Assembly representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u39992	Comrade Bull, you're getting a warning now because you're speaking without my word. Let's move on. Now he's a colleague of Cappelli's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u39993	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. I would pray for a break, therefore, that once again, obviously, it is a pre-election period, so obviously some of us need to understand and that this stage should not have to argue about tourist guides or anything else, so this stage may have to clarify what may have been unclear to some, and that it is precisely today that from the secretary of state and to all of us in one debate we understand that we want to improve the status and guides and what the agencies had vouchers and all together, so that we are not going to go through the hourly evaluations, specifically, for example, the protected localities, this is very clear, this is what we are in the EU Commission exactly State Secretary and I have been several times and we have made it very clear that we can not go beyond everything, possibly what EU directives are, but that through protected localities there is no theoretical chance that we are going to pass, and this is very clear to them very clearly, and we are very clear that we are aware that under any price and locality, which we do not pass. Therefore, we made this very clear and they accepted it after 2 meetings in the EU Commission and said they would no longer raise questions or answers about it. They said, "Here you go, give us a list of protected sites, and we'll think it has to be specially covered, and the guides for such sites will have to have special exams, whether it's domestic or foreign, they'll have to have a special approach for such localities, and it's very clear there, and I think we'll do it again today in the debate, but obviously we'll be able to explain once again that we've been thinking about protecting ourselves, especially these protected sites. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u39994	And that break will be approved. And my colleague Dretar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u39995	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office. On behalf of the Department of State Movement Representatives and I will ask for a break in order to point out once again, for a start, an extremely high-quality debate on the Committee on Tourism, here, and the esteemed MP Cappelli is there and we have discussed it very well, but what is a fact and what we want to draw attention to once again is the truth that on the Committee on Tourism this proposal of the Law did not get the necessary majority, so already on the Assembly board we have noticed certain things that, in the draft law, that is, in the future law, need to be amended. I will talk primarily here about tourist guides and once again, I fully agree that we need a healthy and constructive debate and it is an absolute fact, but again, again, I want to say, we are the highest House in Croatia and we must not allow such proposals to pass the law,... forgive me, and then that certain things are regulated later by the rules without any control of the Croatian Parliament, or the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. In person, the club, the whole, the Homeland Movement, believes that one precise, clean and unique law should be passed which will precisely define all future relations, both within the profession of tourist guides, so of course and within all EEAs who may come here to carry out the same activity. So completely, once again, the Croatian Parliament is here to pass laws, not to give these powers to expert groups that will regulate legal relations in any activity, as well as in the activities of tourist guides. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u39996	The apartment is approved. Is anyone else picking up? If not, we'll continue at 10 o'clock and 10 minutes. [[It's 10:00 a.m.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.10 HOURS]] My colleagues and colleagues, please return to your seats.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u39998	Thank you very much. State secretary, tourist activities and services are very important, especially for people in the area and I will ask you what I researched at the stop. Which is why you liberalise on the market the possibility that tourist guides can very easily be foreign physical i.e. This foreign citizen? What is the reason why your Klis, my Sinj, Split, Dubrovnik, the entire coast, our backs, can work touristly, for tourist guides foreigners, and we will send our people where? You have liberalized so much that simply the code of Croatia does not have its tourist guides.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u39999	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40000	Dear Representative Bulj, I think I explained this very well in my opening statement, so we are changing the law because of violations of EU law, among other things because of some of the fundamental rights of the EU, which is freedom of movement, freedom of service, freedom of work, etc. and, of course, among other things, the regulated profession at the EU level is that the tourist guide as a regulated profession, so the guide from Croatia, from Croatia, can lead in any other country within the EU, as well as that other guides can also enter the Republic of Croatia on a temporary and occasional basis, and thus we are exactly in line with the directive that is needed, and I say from the experience we have so far in the previous 3rd year. We have about 70-year-old guides that register to the Republic of Croatia on a temporary and occasional basis and stand everything in Croatia from 2 to 3 weeks, so that's not the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40001	Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40002	Thank you, Honorable President HS. Dear Secretary of State, you and I come from Split-Dalmatia County, where the largest association is just a tourist guide if we look at their numbers. We know that they've had problems at this time when they were unemployed about the benefits themselves from the office, so I'm curious about what the ministry has done specifically on this matter, but I'm also interested in your opinion. The specific position of the ministry which, as you plan to ensure exactly that tourist guides arriving in the Split-Dalmatia County know the matter of our localities and of Diocletian's Palace, Peristil, St. Duje, but also the locality in our Dalmatian hinterland, especially here you come from the municipality di we have a great tourist attraction, and this is Kliška Fortress? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40003	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40004	As for tourist guides and, and talks with them, so in the previous 3rd year. We communicate with guides very clearly and constantly. I personally participated in over 10 meetings at least, and our wider team in the form of assistant directors of administration, lawyers, etc. and over 15 and 20 times, 8 times only in the term of this current government and therefore all of their problems that arise we hope quickly and efficiently, and among other things we addressed the problem which was related to and their measures that were on the trail to help unload or help single tourist guides that was realized last year. As for the second part of the question, it is therefore very important to point out that tourist guides leading to special sites, protected localities, must have education and do so in Croatian so that they can guide them, without doing so.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40005	Comrade Baricevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40006	Thank you very much, Your Honor. State Secretary, for each commendation is the Project of the National Label "Safe stays in Croatia". She's excellently echoed in foreign media. You and I come from Split-Dalmatia County where people largely live on tourism and its contribution. Here I would appeal on behalf of all tourist workers from the Split-Dalmatia County and the Ministry of Tourism and Government and the headquarters and citizens to do everything in our power to keep the Dalmatian coast in the green zone, we must have a positive picture, an epidemiological picture and a smaller number of infected to achieve better numbers than in recent years because we want to have tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40007	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40008	I thank you for this appeal and, of course, join in the application to our entire not only tourism sector, but to all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, because it is very important how, in which state we will be as far as the epidemiological image is concerned, and of course the tourist season will depend. I'll remind you that last year we did an extraordinary tourist season compared to all our competitors where we did over 50%, some of our main competitors were spinning between 15% and 18%, so we made real moves at the right time, and I'll remind you that we're out there somewhere if I'm not wrong 2 or 3.6. And what kind of situation we are about to face 1.6. Let's say this year depends solely on us, so that one of the preconditions of a quality tourist year and the season that we have to do and the challenges ahead of us is to bring this epidemiological picture into the best possible frameworks and thus re-present ourselves to the market as a safe and accessible destination as we were last year.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40009	Now we'll have a request for a break, dear colleague of Glamuzina, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40010	Thank you. I'm looking for a break because I think it's important to give a vote in this debate. hear the opinion of the guide, and on the page “The Croatian Tourist Guides Association” the following writes, it is important that we all hear. Minister of Tourism and Sports Mrs. Brnjak does not refer to the comments of tourist guides and states that guides show disdain for parts of the law that are not subject to changes but are in effect 2.g. and it is embarrassing that they are not part of the change because the proposed changes proposed by the ministry are doing tectonic changes to the entire profession, and because of the nature of the proposal you had to change very important standards proposed by the tourist guides. Given the numerous objections that the representatives of the Ministry of Tourism and Sports do not come from the tourism sector, it is even more necessary to listen to the profession for which we have unfortunately remained deprived. We consider it important to note that, during this period, the Foreign Law and the abolished quotas for non-European citizens precisely because of the same, given that almost all third-country countries as a condition for obtaining the name of a tourist guide, have a condition for the country's citizenship. It is necessary to implement systems to protect other European countries that limit their country's origins to introduce the principle of reciprocity. In all arguments, therefore, we have provided examples of European countries that safeguard the interests of their citizens and protect their cultural heritage and history. Following all of this, state that the guide's proposals are not subject to change, that they are therefore rejected by disappointing and we sincerely hope that this way of disrespecting the profession's arguments in the future will be annulled. The guides also claim the note to everyone, that they did not see at this last meeting the bill, that it was only discussed in principle, that no concrete written proposal had been seen and that all their proposals had been refuted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40011	Okay, a break formally I approve, however, in accordance with the article. In 293 B, we're not going to take a break because we had it a while ago, so we're moving on with our work. Now it's time for a respected colleague of Boska Ban Vlahek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40012	Dear Secretary of State, the ministry has been fenced by a statement that after the law was passed, it will be the rules that define details and set limits. It is this way that the Ministry of Tourism joins a number of institutions that do not overly care about the opinion of the profession, it is important to satisfy some form and whether it is practical or not, whether there is any logic, there is nothing important. What you need to stand for is to listen to the waist. To listen to people who do this and who are despite last year's complex job shortages, they still want to continue to work on that path, to introduce restrictions immediately into the laws, if Greece and Cyprus could do so, why not Croatia as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40013	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40014	Thank you. So here's another time to underline, so, as far as communication is concerned, that these concerns are not about not communicating and not sharing information, so he says, I'm going to repeat one more time that I personally held talks with the leadership of the guides' association, at least a dozen concrete, at least a dozen times. We are also at the level that working groups, which advice on tourism etc., therefore, in the mandate I say these Government 7 meetings, specifically which were either physical or online or communication by email, exchange of information, so we have listened very well to their proposals. And what I can still say on this subject is that the Regulation on conducting an expert examination for tourist guides and the Regulation on protected sites will define most of the topics that are important to them and I say, a meeting on this topic and working groups of 40 members has already been held last week, so we are already very clear and concretely communicating about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40015	Comrade Frankovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40016	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State, I point out what I also pointed out on the Committee on Tourism, so I welcome the amendments to the law, it is necessary and necessary, we are part of the EU and we need to adapt to European regulations. At the same time, we must protect tourist guides, we will not ban anyone from passing the exam, but the EU clearly allows each Member State to set educational conditions, and there we must find a way to protect the guides that are also the brand of Croatian tourism. In an individual debate, I will propose two amendments which will respect EU rules as part of European regulations and at the same time protect guides. We must not forget the fact that for years right on the days of Croatian tourism, we reward tourist guides as a Croatian brand, which is why we must protect them and try the way through the law to introduce that protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40017	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40018	Thank you very much. Yeah, I agree with you anyway, and that's exactly what we do at every possible level. As regards the specific proposals and the talks made by you on the Committee on Tourism and in particular the works relating to the language, therefore there is a clear provision in the existing law, so level B2 and also one very important thing and a very simple thing, that we understand perfectly, so if we are talking about a tourist guide from some of the EU member states that is coming to the Republic and who wants to pass a test for protected sites because I will remind myself once again, without being tested in Croatia, he cannot provide this service, he is passing the test in Croatian. So he listens to lectures in Croatian and sits in Croatian, and in the examination committee he meets, among other things, tourist guides. So, I think that part about language is perfectly clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40019	Comrade Lerotić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40020	Dear Secretary of State, here's the game of the case, I was in Labin on Saturday where Labin spent me through history and culture... Giusepina Martinuzzi and Matija Vlacic Ilirik. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is a form of excellence provided by Croatian tourism. Unfortunately, today we are talking about a law that is bad, it is a profession, it is unclear why we have not respected the views of the profession or the community of the tourist guides society at all and why we break over our knees by passing this law. Instead of seeking excellence, we simply fall into averages with this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40021	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40022	Dear Representative, in this law, we are changing everything that has now been said by you and your colleagues, and we are only changing the part relating to the passing of a special piece of examination in 21 counties, so 21 exams which the European Commission has so clearly indicated as limiting. It's the only part that we change in this law, so we can't talk in the context of the law that anything bad is done because we can only talk about what is made and not what is not. So the part that you refer to will be regulated, I say, once again with these two regulations, which the working groups have already started working with, and in this way we will make rules that will meet the challenges, so that we are in line with European regulation, so with the directives, and also to protect our guides and our profession and, of course, the service offered in the Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40023	Comrade Cappelly, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40024	Your Honor, Secretary of State. I would, today there will be the same discussion about tourist agencies, so at one point we see that the same debate is the protection of consumers, tourist agencies, which all together, so at one point we reacted last year just to protect not only tourist agencies but also consumers, because then we didn't put the possibility of vouchers, that all the stampede were headed towards tourist agencies they wouldn't have any money to pay back. Thus, this way and this loan, which will enable a billion-and-a-half kuna state guarantee, will only allow them to stabilize and in some ways return money where they could not return to the one that they had responded a year ago. Therefore, it is clear and clear that we have thus protected both consumers and the tourist agency would otherwise lead to the problem of 2000 tourist agencies and 4500 employees.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40025	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40026	Dear Representative and former Minister Cappelli, that just in the last year of your term of office, therefore in response to this covid crisis that has come before us, decisions have been made and urgent changes have been made to this law, in which we have allowed the agencies to issue vouchers, and with the intensity of the preservation of Croatian companies, Croatian travel agencies because they were forced to return funds in the way that is so prescribed in the law before the amendments and in the directive we would have more than half of the tourist agencies that would be completely insolvent and insolvent and would go bankrupt. So we protected ourselves in this way, we were one in a number of countries that protected it in this way, and unfortunately we were left as still one country that was injured because we were still because of the definition, and these are during the course of special circumstances that had not yet ended and we don't know when it would end, we just have to adapt in this way. But it is important to stress that we have given our agencies more time than anyone else in the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40027	Comrade Balic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40028	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State, thank you for your very comprehensive presentation. What I am interested in, namely speaking about the regulated profession of tourist guides, I am interested in how the Ministry of Tourism and Sports plans to prevent potential misrepresentation of Croatian history, especially when we talk about a newer Croatian history, more precisely than the Homeland War. I am holding that special attention should be focused on the localities of a special pitet, for example, like the city of Vukovar from which I finally come, and I am speaking all of this with a purpose namely because I think that tourists should be domestic or foreign visitors who come to visit such sites should, above all, have true and accurate information and complete about the events that happened in the Homeland War and his victim, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40029	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40030	Thank you, Your Honor. So, as far as your comments and suggestions are concerned, and specifically something that has been said before and on the Assembly Committee on Tourism, it is very important to highlight one thing that we are talking about here today, so we are talking about rules within the EU and the EEA and Switzerland. Therefore, as regards third countries, third countries therefore no guide from any third country can come to any locality in the Republic of Croatia and lead. There are therefore no conditions under which this can happen, so without, of course, registering, so settle, live in the Republic of Croatia, and then lay down the whole procedure as required by the law. And that's something that's quite clear, and among other things in communication with the European Commission that we've been leading around the changes that are necessary and necessary, so one of the criteria that we've made very clear is therefore localities protected by the consequences of the Homeland War, and that's as a criterion something that's been accepted and that's exactly what the next rule will be done, so the localities will be absolutely protected.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40031	Thank you. Comrade Petyr, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40032	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS. I think it is important that what you have now explained to the secretary of state that, in the context of negotiations with the European Commission and those localities relating to the Homeland War, you have managed to get on the list of protected sites, that they will be treated in particular, and that those guides who will clarify these sites will have to have special exams to avoid misunderstandings. You also mentioned in your opening statement that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is helping the tourism sector, but also the sports sector, has adopted a special programme, a financial package to mitigate the consequences of this covid crisis. I know you're working on some other activities to get ready for the season, so on that trail, I saw the meetings of Minister Brnjak and Ambassador of the Republic of Israel in Croatia, Mr. Ilan Morra, also held. I wonder if you discussed the introduction of direct aircraft connections between our two countries because I think it would be mutually useful, and also from the point of view that Israel has split most of its population now?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40033	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40034	So, the Ministry of Tourism and Sports very actively communicates and cooperates and exchanges ideas and plans, so in bilateral cooperation with certain countries on the establishment of air bridges, on facilitating border crossings, arrivals, etc., you are familiar with the document that came out yesterday, so with a proposal relating to green digital certificates, so that the goal is to make it easier to cross borders for all those who are either vaccinated or who have antibodies or have been tested etc. What I can tell you right now is that we are doing everything we need to do and that we are on track to ensure timely information with our markets in time, and that thanks to these arrangements we are going to go to a more significant arrival of tourists not only from yesterday, but from that 15.6. Is it, of course, a long time ago, and to realize that you need to know to do a lot for yourself, so first bilateral talks and arrangements to then go public with this information.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40035	Comrade Brumnic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40036	Dear Secretary of State, you keep repeating things from this pay phone that show that you do not understand at all the processes you want to manage or the law that you want to present that it will bring something good in fact only complicates the situation. When we look at all the remarks that have come to you, you have shown that the profession and those who do certain work are not respected at all. But I'm going to ask you a question about a question actually asked by Mr. Cappelli, who you favored with the fact that you made it impossible for all the people who paid for prom trips that didn't make any sense to go away in three, five or seven years, to get their money and leave that money in the agencies? What's the probability that these agencies are going to spend that money and that these citizens aren't going to get their money? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40037	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40038	Thank you for your comment. So, to communicate this information, which is very important, so in the conversation with the group organisation of tourist agencies, the information that we have received from them is official that out of all the amounts that we are talking about, 50% of the agency has already been returned to clients, more than 50% slightly more, and out of these 50% of the remaining guests have already realised the replacement package of arrangements or travel according to the vouchers or have accepted a voucher and some other journey that will be realized in the period ahead of us. And, of course, with this change, it is a legal obligation to get those funds back as soon as possible within 14 days, and it is very important to point out that we did not leave it in our own way, but we tied it to the single programme of state aid that we made for the first time, which comes out in 100% of the guarantee of the state, namely that they can be financed and these returns amounted to a billion and 500 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40039	Thank you very much. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, my colleague Brumnic here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40040	Dear President of the Parliament. The speaker hurt his ankle. 238. Insulting the intelligence of the MPs. I recently asked a question about this written path, and I am absolutely convinced that he saw that answer. These stories that 50% of the people got their money or that 30% of the people took advantage of it, of the 10 people I know is only one person managed to make it, and that's only 70% of the money.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40041	Thank you very much, colleague Brumnic. You are being warned. Why you? [[/Intruder Brumnić: Why me?]] Because you abused the Bureau's breach institute, this was a replica. Please sit down, receive a warning, if you are not satisfied, please contact the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. [[Intruder Brumnic: It wasn't a replica, you insult intelligence.]] Comrade Cappelly, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40042	In 238 he was injured, a colleague wanted to involve me in some way, if I had done something to someone, etc., etc., and then I happen to be 30 years in tourist agencies and I know that everyone was looking for money back then, they would probably have a problem with both consumers and agencies. That's how we protected each other. There's so much about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40043	My colleague Cappelly and you get a warning, this was a replica, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Let's move on with the replicas, Comrade Glamuzina, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40044	Thank you. Dearly spoken, we return to tourist guides again, about countries where the profession is regulated, but in the area you mention the EU, there are 13 countries where the profession is not regulated at all. The proposed amendments to the law state that in this case they cannot be recognised by their professional qualifications, they do not have any professional qualifications, but that if they spent ten years back working in that profession, then they can still come and work there, which means that one and this I am speaking out of the verified example, not hypothetically, the bus driver of the German travel agency can from that same agency confirm that he worked as a guide and neatly without problems, without any professional qualifications coming to Split and according to Diocletian's palace run a group of German tourists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40045	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40046	I appreciate the question, so here you are on a good track with what you're saying we have a number of countries where it's not a regulated profession at all. That's right, you see the difference in access to the Republic of Croatia, let's say, and the difference in access to some other eu countries that haven't even regulated that profession was completely liberalised, and the majority of those countries were made in a way that part of the work was done and controlled through their professional associations. So, one part of the countries is doing it that way, and we are just about to protect and provide these services and education and the whole process of the profession registered it, regulate it as a regulated profession precisely with the desire to do so in a maximum legal framework in order to protect and provide services and, of course, the quality of the content they provide.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40047	Comrade Puljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40048	Thank you. We certainly welcome market liberalisation, this is something we advocate, but it is really important to maintain quality and ensure that foreign tourist guides also give quality presentation to our history and cultural heritage to tourists. In that sense, I would like to ask you, do you know what number of protected sites were in 2018. compared to today? And is it true that there is a intention to remove from this list of protected sites the sites that are protected by UNESCO and leave only those who have any connection to World War II and the Homeland War? Here, can you comment on that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40049	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40050	Your Honor, I thank you for asking. So, according to the applicable law or regulation, we have about 550 sites currently protected, and as far as the second part of your question is concerned, what we need to agree on is a future list of protected sites and very clear criteria. So the criteria that say why a certain number of sites enter that category and a very clear justification. So, in the proposal that we went with and what we communicated both formally and informally with the commission, we made it very clear that UNESCO is therefore the sites that are protected under UNESCO, so world heritage to be one of the criteria by which we plan to use as a protected locality.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40051	Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40052	Your Honor, Secretary of State. I'm going to assume that I'm the only representative working on the education of tourist guides, I've been doing it for 12 years, I mean exactly 12 years, and I've been through this course by hundreds of tourist guides. Among other things, I always point out that what they say is extremely important, but that even more important is the way they say it, that they speak with love, with empathy, with attitude, of course I'm talking about my Sibenik-Knin County. And these are people who through a dozen items are educated exclusively for the space of Sibenik-Knin County and there are professional ones. You will undo it only so that someone from the EU can come to my Sibenik on my Krka and lead tourists in Sibenik and Krka, without having any feelings for that locality, according to that city, towards that National Park. I think you're making a huge, huge mistake.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40053	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40054	Dear Representative Zekanovic. I will repeat once again, therefore, what is the intensity and the legislator in this section regarding the law and as regards the later regulation. So we stay at the principle of protected localities, we don't run away from it, on the contrary, it's still there, and that's one of the ways we planned to respond to this whole process that's in front of us, so the localities are going. What we have now changed into the law, which is in the law in front of you today we are only discussing in 21 places or 21 counties and 20 counties and the City of Zagreb, but that this part can be held tomorrow on the basis of some of the proposals which will result in and debates of the Assembly Committee on Tourism and Discussions here today in the Assembly and the debates held and which will be held in the section of the expert working group, we will choose a model of how it will be done, whether it will be in the regions or so. either by some kind of group or by NUC regions etc., but we remain to protect localities and education to manage localities.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40055	Comrade Dretar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40056	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State. I'm going to point out again, we can't give anyone the authority to regulate matters this important. The fact that the public debate triggered as many as 445 comments makes it clear how important this is. You say, it's going to be regulated by the rulebook, here's the information that the rules for combined TZ and the rulebook for undeveloped TZ have not been passed yet, and the deadlines were January or February of last year. Why are we sitting here and what are we talking about? Because you're in a hurry. Tell the Croatian public again where we are currently in a situation with this adoption of legal changes and, in fact, tell them again, we are here before the European Commission or the EU's judicial institutions launch because we are franticly late for these amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40057	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40058	Dear Representative Dretar, I thank you for your very constructive contribution to the work of the Tourism Committee that I am familiar with. Well, here's a quick question for me to try to answer a few of these questions of yours. So, as far as the rules for united and undeveloped are concerned, you know that we've had a tectonic disturbance on the market for the last year, but our answer to that was next, we made a government regulation at the end of last year, and with that government regulation we transferred around 30 million kuna to our undeveloped TZ and the associated TZ to finance their regular activities and it was done at the end of last year as a direct response to this situation which is. And of course we need to see how this situation around the covida is going to be a rave in order to adequately define these regulations, and what you're saying is out of fear that we eventually don't bring these regulations here today, so let's say that if they did, they'd be in force right now, and they're totally on the lookout for all those stakeholders who are happy with them as they're written right now, so.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40059	Thank you. Comrade Pavić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40060	My dear secretary. I hope that we will agree that our national, culture and historical heritage is extremely rich, but also extremely complex and it is difficult for someone to master it at some course and when they pass nine items, especially if they want to be a guide on the territory of all Croatia. Our guides who have been educated almost all their life through our primary school education, secondary school, later and some in colleges and higher schools for tourist guides, some of them are excellent guides and excellently present our cultural heritage, they speak excellently about our culture and history, but there are also those who have not satisfied it. You are now allowing people from countries where this directive has not yet been implemented to Croatia and that they are doing what they are not actually qualified to do in their own country. Please answer me if this is okay on the one hand and on the other hand, at what stage is it in the countries where this directive is to be implemented and not yet implemented?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40061	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40062	Dear Representative Pavić. So your thesis just doesn't stand there because I'm going to repeat it, so we're standing by the concept of protected localities. So, if you're talking about a guide arriving with a group, let's say from Germany, which is registered for temporary and occasional arrival in the Republic of Croatia, he can in principle lead only this general part of the public area, in principle talk about my Split or Sibenik specifically, etc., however, if he goes to any of the protected sites that are still over 550, so he can't lead there, these groups can only be led by licensed guides who are educated for that particular part. And this course can only be passed in the Republic of Croatia, and this course can only be passed in Croatian in front of the examination committee, which includes our tourist guides.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40063	Comrade Peric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40064	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. You spoke first of the impact of the covid pandemic on tourism in general, especially in our country, which is even good compared to the Mediterranean countries because 50% was a decline in traffic. However, this uncertainty relates to how many participants were killed and how uncertain business was. It is very important that this support of a billion-and-a-half kunas be able to bridge these financial difficulties, any carriers, any travel agencies, any hotel houses, and that is exactly what they have previously done to keep the largest part of the industry alive.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40065	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40066	Dear Representative Peric, thank you for asking. Yes, you're right, so in tourism, I mean in the world economy in general, but mostly and extremely important in tourism, tectonic disorders have occurred, so the situation is unprecedented and now only at the level of Europe and the world even recognizes what we have been saying and we have been saying for years that tourism has been extremely important as horizontal economic activity that simply draws the whole economy and is, in itself, already at the top, so every 10 persons employed in Europe are employees who are related to tourism. Tourism had an average GDP growth of around 5% each year, so it is very important and what all world experts say, we join it, so tourism will need the longest to recover. And that's why it's very important that we contribute to this process, and one of the most important things at this point is this liquidity that we've done, according to the first pie, a 100%-guarantee state support programme, to ensure both micro, small and medium but also large economic operators. to make this tourist season the best possible. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40067	Thank you very much. Comrade Matul, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40068	Thank you, Mr. President. Secretary of State, here's such a large number of remarks that are actually rare to the proposed laws, what experience I have here is very short, but I know that such a large number of objections have been made to the Copyright Act. All that you're telling us right now was supposed to be done before, more thoroughly with the community of tourist guides, and then it wouldn't have happened that many very written people who speak the languages of the sides would say that. Article 73(1) doesn't say anything about protected localities, and I think we need to find a way to really talk to all these societies before the next law-reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40069	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40070	Dear Representative Matula, I thank you for asking. So, once again, I will repeat the part that I read in the opening statement, so about, yes, 445 comments, of which 95 accepted only here, which may be a little disturbing this picture that we are talking about which a large part of the comment was absolutely identical, so the same comment that was copied to dozens and dozens of different persons, so in this part and the comment is absolutely relevant to the same topic, and the comments again in the most important part refer to what is not the subject of the amendment of this law, which is therefore two of the above mentioned rules which define education and which are defined among others and protected localities, so that in this part of these comments we will not only take into account and we are also taking into account, but also using these comments now in this professional working group of 40 people. So our goal is to do everything we can to protect the profession and service and, of course, to bring ourselves into line with the EU acquis.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40071	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40072	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. State Secretary, Croatia is largely relying on tourism and is recognised as a country in which tourists are happy to come. They come for a number of reasons, but it is often said that one reason is not only the beauty of Croatia but also the good spirit of hosts and what awaits them in Croatia. Often they are tourist guides, 5500 in Croatia, which lead these tourists to various localities and with passion show them also with piety, of course, show everything that Croatia boasts. You said in the debate here today that there was only one change, you say there would be a fragmenting of the exams, so there will be no more 20 and 21, and only one. So how is it just a small change when with such a wealth of Croatia, how will people overcome it and how will we actually keep that quality that you said is extremely important and that we recognize?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40073	Thank you. Your Honor, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40074	Dear MPs, and no, you just said something that I didn't say. First, we now have the current fragmenting of exams, we have exams for 21 counties and 20 counties and one city and that is what we consider at EU level and what is the opposite of the directive and what is so-called. Restricting factor. What we didn't mention at any point is that it would be one exam, so I don't know where you could hear it, so I also said in the opening presentation and even think in one replica, so the way we're going to do it will depend on the debate that was held on the Committee on Tourism of the Croatian Parliament, this debate that we're having today and, of course, the proposal that will go ahead of this expert working commission, so that's a few possibilities or regional approaches or... the matter of the region or, etc., so that part is not defined, we just have to decide as part of the adoption of these two already mentioned regulations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40075	Thank you very much. Here's the secretary of state, you can go to your seat. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I open the debate, and the first will be the Club of Representatives of the Mosta and the time will be shared by respected MPs Miletic and Petrov. First of all, the respected representative Miletic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40076	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Reiner, respected Mr. Bukarica, respected secretary of state, respected colleagues, colleagues, respected tourist guides, tourism workers, Croatian peoples. This law before us is not just some legal or bureaucratic and irrelevant amendment. This law regulates who and how, with what knowledge, what education will present our Croatia, our culture, our Croatian history, Our tradition, our Croatian customs. Anyone who has ever traveled around Europe knows that there are very clear and strict rules who and under what conditions can perform the work of a tourist guide in a particular destination. And I've been a classmate for 14 years working in high school as a classroom, traveling with students by many European destinations. When we visited Rome, we had to hire a local guide, the same thing happened to us when we were, for example, a local guide. Traveled to Krakow or another European country. It's especially important when I was leaving with my high school students in Auschwitz, and I was there five, actually six times, in that place of horror, of desolation, of the horror of Nazism that happened to this world, there's no way you could go on a tour of Auschwitz without professional local leadership and this shortest tour takes three hours, medium five hours, then one more day. Some of our tourist guides cannot come there, let alone some history professor, and say something that he would possibly want to say in that place. It would be good to learn something from this. So please, please be sure to take our Vukovar as a place of special piety in general, and certainly not some pointy approaches, Secretary of State. It's the only way to avoid those situations of German and French guests who brought from the cruise to Vukovar, and then neatly told people everything, just not the truth about the city of heroes. And I will say immediately, so I am concerned about this proposal by the Government of the Republic of Croatia which largely paves the way for foreign tourist guides to come to Croatia, present Croatia without sufficient education, according to some of their own impressions and knowledge in Croatia and its historical and other tourist sites. Secretary of State, I listened carefully and followed you. In the beginning, you said that the measure was clearly B2, and then in the replicas, perhaps you just didn't get along well, that the last part of the exam would listen and lay in Croatian and that it was sufficient to guarantee that the participants must speak Croatian. But the law doesn't say that. Um, nice tampering, amazing, even when we declare protected sites, it won't be enough, these foreign guides will present to tourists in advance some locality at a sufficient distance from it, not to be in violation and let tourists wander alone without adequate expert guidance and explanations on the spot, and about the quality of such service should not be spent a word. Let's not be surprised when people get any impressions about Croatia based on semi-information and unprofessional leadership, such a presentation of Croatia will be superficial, stychial, and the tourist experience will not be complete and quality. We all know that tourism is a very specific economic branch based on a quality, authentic experience that tourists absorb, carry with them to share this experience with their friends, acquaintances, and this is the biggest commercial for every tourist country. If this experience is missing, if a wrong or cheap impression of a country or destination is created in the eyes of tourists, then the destination is slowly beginning to lose visitors. To be clear, we don't belong to those who are exclusive. I believe that foreign tourist guides can give a quality presentation to Croatia. I believe that between them and those who are real professionals, and some of them must have fallen in love with our country. But that's not where we're talking about them. We're talking about trained tourist guides who do nothing but work without passion. No emotion, no love. And then finally, without the right knowledge, and it will harm Croatia. I therefore appeal to the Government, the Ministry of Tourism, we have plenty of time, the law is in first reading and certainly in collaboration with the profession and representatives of our tourist guides can find a solution that is consistent with European law, but which protects the interests of Croatia and Croatian tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40077	He will continue with the honorable representative Petrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40078	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. I don't understand the moves made by this government except that it doesn't stimulate enough entrepreneurship, except that it has imposed on these same entrepreneurs a yoke that they can barely support, except that tourism just happens to them because it wasn't a strategic action, now, in yet, in that economic branch you put unfair competition on them. A market competition that's not fair, and you're tearing down their business. To begin with, will tourist guides have to pass all the courses, spend all that time to be able to represent Croatia in quality, those sides that make you change this law? Obviously not, as soon as you change the law, as soon as your entire waist is buzzed and resented by it and as soon as your parliamentary representatives announce amendments to your own law. I think that's enough to explain how wrong you're doing. After that, this is just a look from your economic point of view. I can't understand the logic of your moves, and I can only say that in all this, those moves have been made by those who have been on the state's mangers all their life, in the private market they haven't been. That someone from another country can have the same desire, emotions, interest to represent Croatia, talk about its history, its people, I won't talk about it, it's too high. We do not even know which version of the story will tell people, and it is pointless to speak as long as we have the presidents of neighbouring countries who in their office or hold pictures where they have acquired Croatia or those presidents who still fantasize about Croatia as their property. And it's pointless to talk about. On the side of emotion, aside from love, you are there in your homeland love you use from choice to choice, chew, put aside, fortunately, no one is seriously experiencing you, as you are seriously not experiencing it. That's why I'm only gonna talk about professional arguments. The tourism ministry under pressure from major foreign agencies through the EU commission wants to end the county licenses eventually, allow all EU guides to guide tourists across all localities of the Republic of Croatia. And you finally justify the freedom of movement of work in the EU. Firstly, a simple example can show that this is not legally justified and that this principle of freedom of work in the EU must be defended by allowing access to our leading education for EU citizens, not by direct approach to leadership without the necessary knowledge and qualifications. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man can't teach in Finnish national history because it requires special knowledge, because they're not universal activities like a medical profession. Now I hear Mr. Cappelli's talking about pointy protections, so I guess by him and the government we have a pointy sovereignty, and how you're going soon we'll be left without it. What do you mean, the county's only worth some localities, not all of them? Are you telling me that in Zadar County only Zadar, in Dubrovnik-Neretva County, is only Dubrovnik? Well, I believe that neither Zadar nor the Dubrovnikers will agree. And I want to know who's in that bureaucracy that determines which locality in which county is the only thing that matters, that's all I care about? Now this is called bureaucracy, the one who wants to come and work in Croatia can come and work in Croatia, pass the same courses, the same exams that cost at least 7,000 kuna, last at least half a year, and they can do so under the current law, you don't have to change the law, they can already do it, nobody can prevent them, they can come and do it, they can pass and pass the same things people who live in Croatia should do. After all, are you looking for the same thing, do you think that in other EU member states, without a high level of education and knowledge, you can be a guide? Do you think that in China and Japan and Israel without conditions of citizenship being a guide? He can't. Well, at least protect us just as the other countries protect their guides.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40079	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP, and Boška Ban Vlahek will speak with a respected representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40080	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Secretary of State. We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on the provision of services in tourism. The Committee on Tourism, as we have heard from today, was not accepted by Mr Dretar on the Tourism Committee because he did not get the necessary majority. Why is that? Because this very proposal of the Tourism Service Act represents the destruction of the profession of tourist guides. Tourist guides we've heard are the best interpreters of heritage. There are about 5500 of them in Croatia and their very meaning in tourism is immeasurable and it is precisely for them to be consulted in decision making, respecting their work and interest. In the past few months, several meetings of the Association of Croatian Tourist Guides Association have been held. One of the topics that has often been on the repertoire is precisely the change in the framework of the education of tourist guides. Members of the community who have credibility and work at higher universities have drawn up a proposal for a programme that is not accepted for the reason it is overcomplicated. I personally agree with a complex program because I've met a very big difference between people who have a license. The point of this is that by the existing framework, anyone can pass the exam for the tourist guide, interpret tourists, guests, those who bring money to our destinations. I therefore personally agree to raise complexity to a higher level. Seeing this proposal for the law, the Association of Croatian Tourist Guides provided a detailed indication of the society with which it fully agrees as a longtime tourist worker. The situation surrounding the European Labour Markets Directive is controversial, which is interpreted as allowing Europe's tourist guides to move freely on our market. I don't see it as a problem of competition, competition erases ability, but as a problem of interpretation towards insufficient sources and wrong sources. It's not just history and the Homeland War that's been going on so long, it's about emotion and passion for the local end. The tourist guide is the ambassador of his neighborhood, not just the person who often speaks to some people. The tourist guide should therefore be understood as an additional value of a particular service. As I said today, the ministry has been fenced with a statement that after the law was passed, the rules will define details and set limits. I think it is very controversial and the Ministry of Tourism, I repeat, joins many institutions that do not overly care about the opinion of the profession. You have to be determined to listen to the profession, to listen to people who do it and who want to do this job quality and fair. For example, I have already mentioned that Greece and Cyprus have the best examples, but French guides have also fought the EU directive and managed to defend the honour of their profession. So I don't see why not ours. One of the reasons for the ministry is that it is impossible to introduce restrictions for foreigners into the law. Well, I'd like to know why that's impossible. Why is it not put into the law that, in principle, it is allowed under certain conditions and it is precisely those conditions that impose restrictions? It is at least very simple, and one of the conditions would be to know the Croatian language at least at B2 level or to pass some form of tests in the Republic of Croatia. It also concerns the fact that such a law and the accompanying Regulation on the list of tourist sites and localities per county would completely disappear any protection of tourist sites or wholes that are part of the immaterial and material heritage of the Republic of Croatia. Some localities were also protected by UNESCO, and the vast majority were listed in the list of cultural goods of the Republic of Croatia. The Association of Croatian Tourist Guides has fought against protected localities for years with the Ministry of Tourism and the development of educational curricula of tourist guides and travel guides, insisting on improving education as a backbone of their protection. Although the rules in question were to be adopted by 12 March 2019, this was not done until today. Unfortunately, following all procedures, tourist guides do not trust in their expertise. It is therefore this profession that insists that the public get acquainted with the overall problem of these contents of the future regulations as proposals that are specifically included in the laws. Through further discussion, we will certainly look more closely at the requirements of the profession, and now I will point out briefly the most important. Mandatory minimum level of education for attending tourist guide education programmes, at least completed 4-year secondary school, regulation of language knowledge level, level B2 according to the European Reference Framework; laying down a specific section of the expert examination according to 5 proposed regions, proposal to regulate the status of guides from non-European countries, other than the conditions of residence in the Republic of Croatia, implementation of the principle of Croatian origin, a sub-prime principle of reciprocity in access to education and the abolition of the solution, it is necessary to resolve concerns about the same, we certainly do not want to allow the possibility of abolishing the acquired licence. The requirements of the profession, community and society of Croatian tourist guides are based on EU regulations, directives and recommendations, laws and rules governing the profession of tourist guides in the Republic of Croatia, the compatibility with other EU countries and the theoretical and practical knowledge of tourist guides and the applicability of the same in practice. Therefore, I appeal, we must not allow the fate of their profession to be decided by the rules. This bill of law is merely a prelude to the degradation of the profession of this interpretation of cultural and historical heritage, which will... which is a receptive tourist country, affects the country's reputation in the world. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All mentioned by the Society of Tourist Guides we find very justified and prevailing reasons of social interest. These very proposals are based on positive protection models in other European countries. Finally, I call on you to respect the reasoned attitudes of the profession and apply the protection models applied by other European countries. It is also not exclusively protected by its own citizens, jobs, but in a country that is extremely receptive and in which more than 20% of GDP comes from tourism, it is a national interest. The way we represent our country in the world is extremely important and it is precisely this profession that needs to be shown that we are unitedly representing the interests of the Croatian people. Following the above, the SDP Representatives Club will not support such a bill because if such a bill was passed, it would indeed represent, as the profession itself says, a nail in the coffin of Croatian tourist guides and an absolute deregulation of the profession of the tourist guide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40081	The next club of representatives is that of the Croatian sovereigns on behalf of whom the respected representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40082	Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected secretary of state and vice president of HS. Sibenik is proud of his cathedral of St. Jacob, and as an educator in the education system of tourist guides, I always told the students when they came before that cathedral, not to forget to mention the Homeland War. Let every tourist offer to put his finger in the holes made of gellers on the bronze door of the cathedral that still exists today. These are some things to talk about in Croatia, some things people visiting Croatia need to know. It's got to be found out. I have already boasted that I am probably the only representative in the current meeting of HS working on the education of tourist guides. And I have always told my students, the very important facts that you will adopt about our Sibenik-Knin County, our town of Sibenik, the Krka National Park and other localities, but it is even more important that everything you interpret, what you tell tourists you will lead, talk with attitude, talk with empathy, with love. If it wasn't just there, it would be 300 or 400 kuna for a tour of the city, but that tourist would remain under the impression. And that's very important, and that someone who comes to you from Austria, Germany or Slovenia doesn't know or feel or can act like the one who passed the class with great lecturers, specifically, in my Sibenik. This morning, a man came to me, otherwise a Croat from Australia, and he said, "He was recently on a tour of the Danube and that ship stopped in Vukovar." There was a tourist guide on that boat. I don't know if that guide was registered in Serbia or was registered perhaps in Austria or Germany, mostly he knew, they would say "nasci", he knew some variation of Croatian language, so the Croatian from Australia knew him and he knew that he didn't know that our Australian Croat was there, told his Vukovar story. He told them about how Serbs were in '91. Mr. Freed That City From Ustasha. And that's what you serve us with this law. No, I don't. I, you did not listen to me, Secretary of State, it's not about third countries, that man could have been registered in Austria, had Austrian citizenship, meaning Austrian Serb. I know "sucks," they'd say. So the Croats can understand it, and there are, you know, how many Serbs in Germany, Austria, hundreds of thousands, so they'll take advantage of it, they'll take advantage of it. So, we're going to have an inflation of these people tomorrow in my Sibenik in Kleman's Istria, here's another fellow from the coast, I don't really recognize, here's a colleague from Zadar, a colleague from Gary is here from the tourist region as well. So this is one problem that's going to happen. So don't vulgarize an education that makes sense. I don't know how you think a complex course where 10 lecturers are working and who hand over various objects of consciousness to a student, some reduced course for the whole of Croatia just to bring it into line, to bring it into line with the EU acquis. If it's true that we have to do it, and my people here I will say it for the fifth time from this pay phone, then I am against that union because there are dozens and dozens of people living as tourist guides in the city of Sibenik. Manny, we're interested in these people still working, earning their bread by leading tourists around town, not having someone who knows how to get in front of a commission tomorrow, then lay down whatever they want. You said you'd then determine protected sites. And now the protected site is, for example, I don't know the Sibenik cathedral, and then 20 meters away, it's not protected. I don't know how you're going to define it, who's going to keep that guide with the universal certificate from going in there. Will we have thousands of inspectors looking and watching each, hello? This doesn't make sense. One of the few resources the Croatian state has is tourism. Unfortunately, one of the few. So let's not have this tourism, this one of our last resources that we have to give to someone outside of Croatia to enjoy it, to do whatever they want, because the Honorable Secretary of State is here I'm asking you, so you can take the floor as a promoter, you know it by the Rules of Procedure whenever you want, you can go right after me. I ask you who it is in Germany, so the citizen is Germany and not Croatia, and he knows Croatian can be interested in this. People originating in Serbia can run away after the release of parts of Croatia again to Germany, of course other residents from the region. If that's our interest, then it's a great honor for the government of Andrej Plenkovic. After yesterday's law which is also fantastic, fantastic where there is Minister Medved, with the support of his colleagues Deur and Djakic, defended the equalization of the Croatian victims, or those who fought for our free and sovereign Croatia and those who destroyed it, today we have a law where they will again be given the opportunity to lead tourists in my Sibenik tomorrow. I will conclude, I want tourist guides who will guide my Sibenik and who will allow every tourist to put his finger in the hole of a geller on the bronze door of the Sibenik cathedral and tell them the story of the Homeland War, the heroic defence of Sibenik and the creation of a sovereign Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40083	The following is the IDS Representatives' Club on behalf of which the respected representative Katarina Nemet will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40084	Dear Mr Vice-President, state secretaries, colleagues and colleagues, the proposed amendments and additions of the Tourism Service Act bring alignment with EU legislation in the field of providing services in tourism, but do not address the key problem that we expected will be resolved by this law, which is that it is finally quality, professionally and justly regulated to provide tourist guide services. The draft proposal for this law has already reached numerous objections from the professional public and the association of tourist guides, which speaks enough about the fact that the resolution ministry did not take into account the opinions and arguments of the profession when writing the law itself, and that the profession must be the basis for the adoption of every law and so on. According to representatives of tourist guides who addressed us as parliamentary representatives, the little trust that existed between them and the restoring ministry was violated. Encouraged by such inadmissible ignoring of tourist guides by the State of Istria and 9 Istrian cities have provided full support to tourist guides and their remarks to the proposed law in early February. We, as a club of representatives, also warned at that time that when the law was drawn up, the Ministry of Tourism and Sports did not take sufficient care of the importance of the role that tourist guides play for Croatian tourism and for the correct interpretation of our history and cultural heritage. As a successful tourist region Istria is recognised for its natural beauty, but also for the excellence and competence of our tourist employees, including tourist guides. And that's why we want this issue to be resolved in cooperation with them, not ignored. What is particularly resented by the current law on the provision of services in tourism is the unscheduled and flat-rate qualifications used by the law as for example in Article 73 where the guide has to know the Croatian language to the extent sufficient to provide tourist guide services. This is a completely undefined and unserious qualification because any definition of the level of language knowledge must be clearly regulated by the level of language knowledge with the possession of the relevant beliefs of the competent national authority on the knowledge of Croatian language. Provisions on completed high school should also be specified so that it is prescribed to refer to a four-year high school, that there are certain standards in the education of tourist guides. It would also be good to re-involve colleges in the process of education of tourist guides in the section relating to passing exams in order to raise the level of quality for the stairs more. It is people who work in tourism who have invaluable importance to present a particular destination to tourists. Their knowledge, expertise and behavior towards guests often depends on the entire experience of a specific city, a region or a country as a whole that one takes with him when he finishes his vacation and returns to his country. That is why the ministry had to show more respect for the arguments made by tourist guides, not out of rejection without too much justification. We are aware that there are rules in one part of the EU directive and this is not disputed, but Croatia is not the only tourist country in Europe that is an EU member. Therefore, on the basis of positive examples from other European countries, the state needs to see what some countries have done in a similar situation and how the interests of our people can be maximum protected, and to comply with European rules. Although we would all like other economic branches to be more developed together, the fact is that tourism is important for the Croatian economy and we see a huge decline in GDP due to the absence of foreign guests during the pandemic. That is why, at least, that tourism sector should be regulated legally by respecting the proposals and arguments of the profession. I therefore call on the Ministry of Tourism and Sports to develop a more quality proposal of the Tourism Service Act, which will respect tourist guides as an important segment of our tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40085	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives will be that of the Homeland Movement, and will be spoken by respected representative Davor Dretar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40086	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and distinguished colleagues. Here we are again here in one strange situation, a situation that fully agrees with both the ruling and the opposition sides of our Parliament, so we all agree in one thing, this is a bad law. I'm gonna do it one more time, this is bad law. I will, of course, touch myself once again and remind myself of the fact that in a public debate almost 450 subjects once again say this is a bad law. Nevertheless, here we are today to discuss, and thank God only in the first reading of this law, the Law on the provision of tourism services or services in tourism. Let's just go through some sentences of the profession, to become a licensed tourist guide in Croatia let me read to you dear Croatian what you need to have. Minimumly completed four-year high school, then enroll a course for a tourist guide who is not cheap at all, attend all lectures, lectures last six weeks, five days a week from 16 to 21 hours in the evening. You have to write a seminar paper, pass a written exam from the hearing subjects, and there are 10. After that you pass the oral commission exam in Croatian and, of course, in all the foreign languages you want, the laying in a foreign language is paid separately. When you pass all of this, you have just taken the first step, you have become a licensed tourist guide for the Republic of Croatia, but you must not lead in any county to protected localities. So, you are a tourist guide, for example here in Zagreb, but you must not lead tourists through Kaptol, Trg bana Jelačić or Gradec, but rather New Zagreb, Sloboština or Prečko. So, do you want to continue working as a tourist guide you have to lay down the county. If you want to take the general part, then enter a seminar for the so-called seminar. The special part of the county you chose. Croatia has 20 counties plus City of Zagreb, so you should pass 21 special exams. All this together, of course not cheap, you go after the county three days special exams, special lectures, you go to field school and then you take the first written exam from all the cases, so you record an audio recording of virtual leadership of three protected localities, and only then can you say that you are a licensed local guide for a particular county, but you can't run in any other county. There you are, therefore, facing a problem and 21 exams to become a licensed tourist guide for the Republic of Croatia, or for every county and its protected localities. And here we're talking about making it easy for strangers to make this whole thing simple, you've heard it yourself, boring, long, demanding and very expensive procedure. So, esteemed colleagues, dear colleagues, we can't let that happen. I say once again, I am very glad that there are also respected colleagues from the ruling coalition, or opposition colleagues and colleagues on the Committee on Tourism in this case, which is why this proposal has not even passed the board. We cannot allow the regulation of such important things for Croatian tourist guides, i.e. workers and tourism workers through regulations that are to be passed on by what criteria outside the control of the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, we know ourselves that we are here in Zeitno, once again I will thank you here publicly for your excellent cooperation with your colleague, Mrs. Herman, who told me openly, if we don't bring this here, we will be sued by Europe, so why didn't we bring it in on time, the question is who will ask each reasonable person. I don't have the answer to that question. Let me just expand this debate a little bit more when we say we're going to reduce the number of protected units or we're going to say simply to tourist guides you don't have to lead there or there anymore. I do not agree with this at all, we need to increase the number of protected units because in Croatia we certainly have something to show, from history, from culture, from religion and of course from the Homeland War. We cannot and should not, of course, allow these protected locations to come as tourist guides of persons who do not have enough knowledge about it, persons who may not have the knowledge of Croatian language quality enough and, of course, what is extremely important, people who cannot talk about it with one emotion to be guided by a tourist guide. Only when I say that my Krapina-Zagorje County has 11 protected destinations, from the parks and woodlands in Bežanac, the park and the castle in Milena, the town of Klanjc, the town of Krapina, our beautiful Trško vrh, Kumrovec, the Museum of Peasant Bunes, the Museum of Old Village in Kumrovec, the Antun Augustinčić galleries in Klanjčić, the Castle of Velika Tabor and, of course, our most famous Museum of Evolution and the finds of the ancient man in Hušnakov near Krapina, is it clear that we do not need to reduce but to increase the list of such specific protected units in one, the only county, because we have what to show, of course, we have here, the church in Belac with one of the most beautiful baroque altars in Europe and of course in our whole white world. What are we doing here and what are we talking about here? Let me just quote the profession for a moment, or a few of the excerpts from the public debate. What's actually going on here? We talk and regulate the temporary and occasional provision of services on the internal market. Limit access if we prove that the measure is proportionate. Now that's important, because there's something called proportionality. This is a test that the EU court applies when assessing whether a certain national or transnational measure is restricting the use of market freedoms. So, as with many, many cases of joining the EU, we clearly gave up one piece of our own sovereignty and that is generally quite okay. We are going to one big community and, of course, within that community, we will agree that, which is what we will limit not being a competition match at the level of the entire European economic space, let's say that, equally. But when you hear that in the Greek part of Cyprus, so within the EU, when you hear about Italy, a tourist guide cannot come from Croatia and carry out its activity, then it is clear that with the proportionality test something is wrong. So once again, I don't think this is a good bill, and I don't think the law itself can pass a vote in the House and I see that we will vote on it tomorrow. So I publicly call on both respected colleagues and colleagues from the ruling coalition and, of course, all of us opposition MPs not to support this legislative amendment proposal, as the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club will not support it either. I have two minutes left to ask the respected Secretary of State once more, do you know that in Croatia there is one Mr. Davor Njirić who systematically and continuously sends us to the club and I trust all of you, extraordinary suggestions, extraordinary suggestions. Here's a simple question. Do we, as Croatia, want to stop the collapse of the castles until their final disappearance or do we want to rebuild them and get a new tourist product? This is a great initiative. Croatian castles, hotels of heritage. Here is the respected Mr. Njiric, whom I sincerely thank for this great initiative, brought a complete program. How to withdraw funds from the EU, from Croatian castles, not only in my Krapina-Zagorje County but throughout Croatia, really make excellent hotels of heritage. There are other great suggestions, we have an idea about what happened. story telling destinations, fantastic story. We also see here in Zagreb, of course we talk about everything before this unfortunate pandemic, we have seen extraordinary stories where people, tourists, came to Zagreb, introduced them through the city by Marija Jurić Zagorka, told them the story of the Greek witch, so we have potential, we have brains that can make Croatia an extremely recognizable tourist product on the world market. So, Mr. Secretary of State, Your Honor. Minister, let's let these high-quality people develop but through quality legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40087	Thank you. The next Club representative will be the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Mato Frankovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40088	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State. The amendments and additions to the Law on the provision of services in tourism, as you have initially stated, relate to two proceedings led by the European Commission against the Republic of Croatia. The first is Directive 2015/2302 on travel in package arrangements and related travel arrangements in relation to vouchers and the second is Directive 2006/123 on services on the internal market and Directive 2005/26 on the recognition of professional qualifications in relation to the regulated profession of tourist guides. What is important is to note that the European Commission is in the final phase prior to the launch of the proceedings in a court of law relating to vouchers. In addition to us, only another European country has not met the requirements, so unless we adopt this law, this means that we would already have a court case against us in April. We have no procedure for guides at this time, although it is to be expected that it could be launched within the next few months. It is extremely important that the question of vouchers be resolved as soon as possible. It is clear that the agencies took the money for certain arrangements and the same, they did not return it. They could not return it primarily because there was no longer financial liquidity to make it, and at the same time they themselves were very likely to have had the costs of payments to third companies and the realization of the reimbursement of those costs had not been realised. So that's where I primarily think about hotelers in relation to the need to pay for booking accommodations. What really sounds worrying is how the agencies will be able to implement obligations to their clients after the adoption of this law. In order to avoid the financial breakdown of tourist agencies, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has decided to adopt a programme to grant state support to tourism and sports sectors in the current Covid-19 pandemic. This programme provides financial support to businesses operating in the tourism and sports sectors to mitigate the consequences of the crisis caused by the pandemic of the virus's coronary on their business. The programme will be implemented by the ministry in co-operation with HBOR and HAMAG BICRO, with state guarantees of over a billion and 500 million kuna. What is extremely important is that support is indeed also given to travel agencies that will have to pay back. Otherwise, there will be a collapse of tourist agencies and the collapse of many tourist agencies in the area of the Republic of Croatia. There's no way we can feel it's okay to keep the citizens' money without the service being provided. At the same time, however, we have agencies that are not guilty of not being able to provide a service, which they also contracted with third parties or companies when negotiating the arrangement. It is therefore extremely important that agencies enjoy full support from the resolution ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, all to bridge the time period until the full start of the tourism market. As far as the guide on the other hand is concerned, we were mostly today discussing guides. I must point out in particular that the launch of the procedure against the Republic of Croatia was also initiated by Slovenian guides because they considered it unfair that they could not be tourist guides in the Republic of Croatia, as they can in other EU countries. We are part of the EU, and we need to comply with the regulations, regulations set out by Europe. However, although I believe that this part of the law should be amended and adapted to EU regulations, I am of the opinion that the proposed part of the law relating to guides is not finished well-worked. This is about first reading, and I think it's normal that we can discuss the same, discuss and offer solutions. In fact, there's a possibility that we can protect our guides. I think it is important to point out that tourist guides are Croatian brand. How they are using their knowledge to enrich every city's tourist offer. Therefore, it is not a matter of who will lead the groups in the protected areas or do you really think that it is possible to pass the exam for a tourist guide within a few months and lead, for example, a review of the city of Dubrovnik. Whether we want to provide high-quality service to guests visiting protected sites or in the future we will get below the average guide which will simply be cheaper, and then the history that will be told will be told below the level that guests who visit the protected sites expect. I've been working all my working life in tourism. I started with carrying suitcases, travel companionships, agency representatives, operatives at the tourist agency, business manager, directors, etc., so I can say that I understand this sector very well. Always, but there was always a key difference between a travel companion and a local guide. Since I work local guides exclusively water protected sites, for example in Dubrovnik only the historic core of the city of Dubrovnik. For all the above reasons, I believe that this bill must contain the following components in the second reading. In Article 70, except as already stated on or in protected areas, the tourist guide may provide services if he has previously passed a specific section of the expert examination for protected units and localities by region. The Minister shall make a list of protected units by region, with the prior opinion of the Ministers responsible for Culture, nature protection affairs, as well as the Minister of Defence for Localities associated with the Homeland War. In addition, Article 73 should stand except for the proposed and the following. Paragraph 3 knows the language in which to provide the B2 tourist guide services according to the degrees of the common European reference framework in understanding and speech and knows the Croatian B2 language according to the degrees of the common European reference framework in understanding and speech. What I particularly want to mention here is the fact that the European Commission has made it clear about the educational segment of the guide. Educational issues are within the competence of the Member States. Within the limits of non-discrimination, the proportionality of each Member State can legally condition access to a particular interest by possessing a certain professional qualification and determine the level of knowledge required. And examples of how other EU countries regulate this are the following. For example, in Greece, the same organisation is held every 3 years for guides 30 to 35 educational students, etc., and education takes 3 years. Malta education lasts 2 years, full time or 3 years a couple of time and 250 teaching hours, respectively. Hungary's education lasts a year. Lithuania 250 teaching hours for 2 years. Cyprus education lasts a year. So, if the Ministry of Tourism respects these proposals, we will respect all the required regulations of the European Commission, but at the same time we will recognise the authenticity of local guides as best known to the history of protected localities. I believe and hope that at the second reading this proposal will be included, therefore I expect all my fellow MPs to support the first reading of the amendments to the law, because we only come to the second level where we expect the ministry of resolution to accept all proposals and suggestions because it is not a shame to say that we want to, that we want to protect our Croatian guides, but, in accordance with EU laws, not at the expense of the damage to the Republic of Croatia, we are paying some fines, but within the framework of legal legislation, what we can do, of course, through the question of education, because the Republic is given to solve for ourselves and thus protect our guides. I repeat, I believe and hope that, on the second reading, this proposal will be included in the final draft of the law, and if it is not me today, I can announce that I will submit the amendment in accordance with the previously said and I believe that we will then come to what we want, therefore, the law that is just, on the one hand, European regulations, on the other hand of the law that protects Croatian guides as people who raise the quality of Croatian tourism and who tell that story with a lot of passion in a way that they have done all these years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40089	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives will be that of the Centre and GLAS, and will speak to the esteemed representative Marijana Puljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40090	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here we are, coming before us another in a series of laws that comes to the assembly should be brought into line with EU directives that have even been injured, and the EU has warned us about this. So here's the 8th. After entering the EU, we have so few amendments to the law because they are not properly in line with the directives, and here we seem to have received a proposal that is not even in line with the positions of the profession. The subject of these amendments to the law are therefore 3, 3 topics, is one journey to package arrangements and related travel arrangements related to the special circumstances of the current pandemic, so how to treat unexecuted travel contracts. Following the entry into force of the amendments in question and the addition of the applicable law, passengers will be able to choose whether to arrange a replacement journey on the basis of the issued voucher or to terminate the contract and to exercise the right to repay the funds paid within 14 days of the termination of the contract. There is legitimate concern, so we have seen that the Committee on Tourism has also expressed this concern, given that the above-mentioned amendment is also a great burden for the organisers of the package of arrangements that could be found in major and financial problems and therefore here we should really consider some kind of assistance and funding through various models. The second theme of these changes is the abuse of rental-a-car services, the abuse of rental vehicles by users of services for the purpose of human trafficking, and there are some amendments. And finally, what is most interesting, what we are talking about all the time, is the liberalisation of the market for services relating to the profession of the tourist guide in order to comply with EU directives because here, as I said at the introduction, there has therefore been a breach of EU law, i.e. a violation of the directive on which the Republic of Croatia has received from the European Commission and a reasoned opinion. So I'm going to concentrate on this third part. The Directive therefore provides that tourist guides from one Member State may provide services in another Member State on a temporary and occasional basis or on a business basis. The current law therefore requires that a tourist guide from another Member State who wishes to provide services temporarily and occasionally can do so, and services on protected sites and localities can only be provided if he passes a special section of the expert examination currently organised by county, so he has 21 exams if he wants to conduct tourists throughout Croatia according to protected localities. These amendments and additions therefore allow for the adoption of regulations that would organise this expert exam in a different way, reduce that fragmentation, that 21 exam and organise it in some other way. In public, we also heard here a lot of disagreements about these changes of the Community of Tourist Guides Community of Tourist Guides have become all the representatives of their observations, they have protested loudly, they have only talked about this and 444 comments that have come to the public consultation on these changes. What I can say is that we certainly welcome market liberalisation, we are part of the EU, part of a large market and we need to comply with the rules, allow free passage and flow of goods and services. Our guides should also be able to lead in other countries, foreigners to lead us, so this is what is indisputable from this law whether in some way we facilitate the conditions for obtaining licences to tourist guides and therefore any simplification of procedures is in principle welcomed. But this isn't just about administrative procedures, it's about knowledge. So, first of all, we should be careful about the quality of the presentation of our history and cultural heritage to tourists and so that every rule applies equally to everyone, so there is no discrimination, so I don't know that it might be something to domestic employees or entrepreneurs if we're going to label tourist guides as some kind of micro entrepreneurs, so they don't have any different rules, or they're being placed in a subordinate position compared to tourist guides from other countries. So to put ourselves in some frames before the covid, Croatia visited on the latest measurements in 2019. 18 million foreign tourists visit a few million tourists who may need tourist guide services. What is little known tourist guides actually do most not in the season but even in the pre-season and post-seasons, usually tourists who come do not know in the middle of the season, in the middle of the summer less or less visit localities, anymore I do not know the sun, sea, swimming etc. and usually they are guests with cruises, often individuals, most often tourist guide services are sought by Americans, Asians, British. And what tourist guides have been saying lately is a hit and what they're looking for is getting to know the local way of life, so not only walking, I don't know about Diocletian's palace, but they often ask the tourist guides to take them away here now I'm going to tell Split in Imotski to visit someone who grows sheep, how they do that cheese. So they're interested in the local way of life, to discover some small secrets of that destination, not to see Diocletian's palace perhaps they can see in a 3D visualization of a certain on-line, so they're interested in the local man, how the local man lives. Now what in this sense were the remarks and the companies of tourist guides, I must say here was the remark that made a lot of remarks on some changes that were not part of some articles in the law that were not part of these amendments. Well, it makes sense that they were given because these changes have a major impact on a large part of their profession, and then some other articles and important norms were to be changed in this regard. One of their requirements is certainly the quality education of tourist guides, so it is really important that here it is said that in the past 10 years there has been a vulgarization of the profession of tourist guides, and they are in some way ambassadors of the Republic, they believe that three-month education is not enough to obtain the most basic knowledge needed to carry out this profession. Here we heard from colleagues Frankovic before some other members in the EU of Greece, Malta, I wanted to repeat, so Malta, Hungary, Cyprus, Lithuania, so how much they take on this education quality of education that it is somehow not as serial as on tape. Someone I don't know enters a private school and I don't really know how to get out after ten hours and be, gets some kind of travel guide certificate. Other requirements of these objections which are not rejected, and should certainly be considered before the second reading, this is certainly the knowledge of Croatian language which is stated in art. 73. that sufficient knowledge of Croatian language is sufficient to provide services, it is indeed vague, inexplicable, indeterminate and should be more precisely defined that the level of language knowledge is guided by regulated levels of language knowledge. The regulation of the status of non-European citizens also states that a model of Greece and Cyprus should be implemented in access to the education of such citizens. We've already talked about this fragmentation of the county exams, suggest passing tests on historical and geographically close regions, so instead of 21 tests, it's done according to five regions. And I'm also reading from their summary of the remarks, which I asked the question of how many sites were before 550, concerns about the intention that seems to be going to end the sites that are protected by UNESCO's protection. In response, we heard that this is not true, but it really encourages, but I'm saying there was a concern that such sites would be removed from the list of protected sites and in this way some valuable cultural heritage would actually be ignored. Mostly here in the end, this bill in the first reading is a bad proposal, it needs to be completed on the basis of the observations of the profession, ensuring that our history and cultural heritage are presented in a quality way to millions of tourists by respecting all EU principles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40091	Thank you. The next club of representatives will be the green-left block, and will be spoken by respected representative William Matula. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40092	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here's a really large number of remarks is something that is actually in my experience and experience of my colleagues, I've already said something about it, very rarely. As much as the secretary of state is talking about how these remarks are largely part of it or a large number of these remarks are actually the same, which would mean talking about copy-pest, but it also speaks of a certain revolt which apparently the community of tourist guides had the need to send to colleagues, so now some of them obviously if they had neither time nor will, as other colleagues have quite precisely called out, just as people who speak foreign languages do, and who I know very often, I know some translators, are not just and exclusively tourist guides. And as our tourist guides guide our groups of those citizens, of course, who can still afford it, we need to be aware of it and we are aware that even with the tourist season last year we were exactly what we were from a happy hand. After all the estimates that summer would end, it ended significantly better than anyone could have expected. For this season, we don't know that even though we have vaccines or vaccines that exist, and we don't have them. And there are many paradoxes there, but I want to tell the experience of the tourist guides who lead our groups across Europe and our people who every so much if they can afford such tours especially by buses, so people go from here to buses and suffer it all to see and to hear our people experts top for those localities. It's true, and there are some localities where they can't speak, but they have to get a license there, too. It's all true. A colleague Frankovic mentioned that actually the Slovenian guides are certainly interested and that among other things they complain about why they cannot lead in Croatia. All of us who know and love nature and many beautiful places not only on the Adriatic, but also on Velebit and on our other natural beauty, we must all admit that we will find Slovenian tourists very often. And it is not only Slovenian tourists but their lovers who come to these places many times, and I have no doubt that their tourist guides are equally in love with nature, perhaps they do not have the same interest in some historical things that are very important and sensitive to us. But when we talk about the freshest history, but also about the history of the 20th century, then we have to consider what a big difference there is only in our history textbooks. There are very large expert discussions about this, and I am not sure that it is then the solution for it to be the defence minister who makes a definitive assessment of it. And yet people have doctored some history and there's still a lot of things to talk about, so I think that's the same sensitive question and that each one of these sites needs to be very precise and well arranged. It is possible that instead of 21 counties or county certificates, it is possible that it can be obtained at 5, something like that and exists in their proposals, to be 5 regions. And it might also be possible to choose that they don't have to now, if that's 5 regions, they don't need to know of course from these 550 sites that they don't need to know 110 maybe there's the same thing that can reduce that number to be possible. But I mentioned now Slovenian, of course, the whole xenophobia and the concern is always that several Serbs left in Croatia might have used themselves or maybe one of the Serbs from Serbia or Bosnia would come here and maybe make some money, I think that thing is farsic, and that's not to be talked about. It is true that like the Slovenians here, it is very well familiar with every detail of nature, but it is also the incredible love of the Asian part of tourists. Not to talk about what she did in South Korea and with what passion these people come here and we have to admit that we are sometimes surprised how well and understandablely speaking people in Asia speak Croatian. Just remember what our experience is when we try to speak English in Italy either in France or in Spain. It is much more amazing how many people in Asia know the Croatian language and how much they know this situation, how much they care about it, and would even say that if they had learned a lot about our history and about natural beauty, about the shallows that are bewitched, about the Kornati that we don't talk about. There, we will not support this law in the first reading because we will certainly give the opportunity to, together with the tourist guide organisations, with the community of tourist guides to do until the second reading, the kind of debate they expected and which many of them said were surprised that they were actually the first part, the first time you saw it, as much as you and part of the associations talked about, that they first saw all these questions only on e-consultation. Now, we ask you to try and make sure that this debate is really including tourist guides by the next reading, but I am convinced that this does not mean that it would be prohibited for others to come, no, I think that this will raise the quality of foreign tourist guides who will be licensed with us and that this is an opportunity for our tourist guides to discuss this as well as very critical promoters as they do the job themselves and that this performance is getting better and better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40093	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives will be that of HSS and HSU and the Honorable Representative Zeljko Lenart will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40094	Honorable Vice President, Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Tourism is one of the most important economic branches in the Republic of Croatia, a topic that we need to discuss far more than we are discussing, today's law in which two things are going through the debate, which is the topic of tourist guides and the return of funds for non-realizable arrangements. Before I go on the subject, I would be back in 2013, on July 1st, when we were euphorically entering the EU, when we became a full member of the EU, when we thought Europe would give us everything alive and none of us would ask in return. When we thought that we would be able to work in the most developed countries of the EU, when we thought that all prosperity would spill over to us, and that we would not have to give anything in return. Well, today in 2021, when we look at not only tourism but other segments in the economy, we realize that's not the case. The Republic of Croatia has become part of a single market, both the goods markets and the labour markets where free and goods are moving, and workers are also moving a little freely and also today the topic of protecting domestic tourist guides that we certainly need to protect, but not a way to ban others from coming to do this activity with us, but to try to find our own brains, ways to put them in a better position of domestic tourist guides. Whether we will use hidden support, whether we will free them from VAT, whether we will find some model of hidden support used by Europe both in agriculture and in other activities and thus put them in a better position in order to make it more worthwhile for them to carry out this activity than someone who comes from Germany, Sweden or from another European country. We will not protect them if we determine that exams must be taken exclusively in Croatian because those who are just as interested in being guides in Croatia will learn this Croatian language and we can make fun of it, maybe it is true that it is really hard to teach Croatians and let alone some from Europe, and again we will not prevent some of Europe's citizens who want to become tourist guides in the Republic of Croatia from becoming such. I do not agree here with my colleague Zekanovic, who said that there was a Serb from there who did not know where he told the wrong story about Vukovar and that such people, meaning outside of Croatia, must not be allowed to become tourist guides. So can't someone from Croatia tell the same story and become a legal tourist guide like all the other Croats? The point is that we will sanction the distortion of Croatian history by these people. We tourist guides have to protect from many computer applications, we all have a phone in our hand today, which also uses some applications, can become some kind of tourist guide, and since we are in a very difficult situation with regard to tourism this year, given the pandemic COVID-19, given the epidemiological situation in our environment, I'm afraid there won't be a lot of organised arrivals and as already some estimates, it will mostly be our tourists who come with their own vehicle. And they mostly don't use too many tourist guides, so this crisis will be the biggest damage that will happen to many people who have invested their own resources to become tourist guides, to guide guests and thus ensure their existence. As for tourist packages, arrangements, tourist trips, we can call them whatever we want, i.e. a tourist product that is created on the market, which we can identify with any other product such as a refrigerator, TV or something else, the one who bought the product, which has not been realised or cancelled because of the situation which currently exists in the Republic of Croatia, certainly has the right to return money. And we can't let those people who are customers of our tourist products be disappointed that we're going to bury them or some voucher or we're going to find ways not to pay them back by justifying that that's how our travel agencies are going to fail, i.e. Our tour operators. Here it must perform on the scene of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, a policy of the government of the Republic of Croatia which must deal with the preservation of our tourist agencies and tour operators through various measures that will allow them to survive this difficult time that has been overcome over Croatian tourism, over the Republic of Croatia, and of course to the whole world. So we won't be able to avoid what's in Europe worth it if you haven't realized the purchase of the product and you haven't used it to get the money back for it. So it is a single European market that we have accepted by our euphoric entry, unfortunately unprepared we have entered the EU and there is no other way to respect it now. But all EU laws and all EU directives leave us with the opportunity to find ways to protect and favour our and our tourist agencies in an invisible way, as well as our tourist guides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40095	Thank you, too. Now it's Mr. Miro Bulj's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40096	Thank you very much. Here, I was in a hurry because I was with people from the Vira who protest against the course of people who declare, as if the Vira is the best tourist destination, and in fact 80% of the sewerage does not have, those who are from Zadar know this well, which octopus is the networked judiciary of Shex to the lower at the expense of tourism. However, I would briefly say here that what I have asked is a question, how can it be possible to liberalise so much market so that foreign citizens can do the job of tourist guides not a tribune certificate, not a tribune education as a triba for Croatian citizens. Who's in the interest of who? To you, who? Will this man in Sinj come to whom you have agreed with him and explain the history of Sinj, explain the history of 715? Maybe someone from Turkey will come and explain. Will someone come to Vukovar who was on the other side and explain their story in Vukovar? Is he going to come to Dubrovnik by fellow mayor Frankovic? Is he coming to see you? So what are you doing to people in tourism? Certainly this sector has been neglected and in this Covid crisis and people are frustrated, mainly in Dalmatia, with contradictory measures. While the minister on board was taking pictures and sending selfie Facebook with singing stars at the same time they couldn't have their terraces open. My key question is, what's this about? What makes us colleagues and colleagues support it? Can one of you explain it to me? There's a mayor here, the mayor of other cities. Even though some of them are digging up unfavorables, the beach is well overrun by Mate Junovic, no more of that stone, the stone of white stone that was sung in the Makarska beaches. I'd like to get the mayor.../incomprehensible/... So at this point we're talking about a law that prohibits, a law that liberalises the tourist guide market. Where are our guides going then? In Ireland, where they will go on that market. Who will explain Sinjska Alka or your colleague on your island Rab, who will explain history, who will be the guide, who will be the tourist sights, who? I think it would be good for you to pull this off, and I'm glad that even from most of the parliamentary representatives on the board didn't support this. And that's what it says about your law. I'm glad they're not from the majority, and it's good for them. And once again our tourist potential, our brand, our renters are in trouble this year. And past and these. Strong measures are expected from the government, especially regarding the moratorium on performances, pardons on loans and interest, what Slovenia has done. Tourist activity is very important in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, what was most feasible would have been better if agriculture and other branches had a greater impact. At this point, however, everyone is in trouble, the tenants, the transporters in tourism, everyone is in trouble, the catering, the tourist workers, they are all in big trouble and you liberalize tourist guides here today, so that they can be foreigners as tourist guides. So what will this stranger show in Sinj? What will he show? But he'll pick up the money and that's it, and ours will go to Ireland to talk about what, I have no idea. So once again.../incomprehensible/... since you're from Klis, the Honorable Secretary of State would like you to withdraw that law or these points which, these points of this within this law, will be deleted in a nice way. And let's be, let's protect our tourist guides. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40097	You've got replicas. Mr. Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40098	Thank you, Chairman. Dear counterpart Bulj, under the condition that Serbia will become a member of the EU very soon, but also beyond that setting if we take Serbs as residents of a particular EU member, what do you think they will tell you about Vukovar, Dubrovnik, Knin, any inch of this country? How do you think they're going to present any drop of blood that's been shed to create this country, how are they going to present any military operation that this country has created? What do you think might happen if they present Croatia as a random state, Croatia as a country of their great-grandfathers, Croatia as a country created in the abduction? Will it help them in all of this and lecture on the content of members of the Makiavelist government, Milorad Pupovac, who will again put Serbs as victims within the Republic of Croatia. I think it's necessary that At least protect certain contents if we're talking about places [[Thank you. Time.]] It's a special pie. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40099	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40100	Thank you very much. So we have to know that the party of the president of Serbia, Chetnik Vukic, is in the same family, the EU's popular parties with HDZ, so it probably went far away because it agreed that the enemy would explain the battles of Vukovar in Vukovar, that Dubrovnik would be explained by those who attacked Dubrovnik, those who took Peru, the hydrocentrals they raised in the air and by those who attacked all of Croatia, others would talk. I therefore believe that this article should be deleted, absolutely deleted because it pleases in this way and enables someone to forge a copy, when you mention, the role and significant places and battles in the Homeland War is the counterfeiting of history, and this law allows those who were aggressors to be tourist guides in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40101	Thank you very much. Mr. Frankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40102	Thank you, dear Vice President. Mr. Bull, so this is the first reading of this law. So if you listened to my debate, you could hear a constructive proposal to protect tourist guides, in two steps, defining 5 regions, first step, second step, language level B2 and thus protect tourist guides. So I expect from you when we experience in the second reading of the amendments to the law, unless it is necessary to give an amendment, that you will support this because it is fully protected by tourist guides and the interest of Croatian tourist guides. Not us at all, but absolutely in everything we see, now the Serbs will come to us, now the Chinese, the Japanese, the Martians. No, I don't. We make the law to protect only Croatian guides.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40103	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40104	I'm glad you agree with me, of course I'll write the amendment and give it away. And to erase, no philosophy. Well, there's no big difference between those of you who say they won't come, who were aggressors, by this law, so basically you put it in a seal, but your party, yours, in the European Army party with Chetnik Vukic... who attacked Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, triba, your good intentions did not erase this, however, otherwise we try to protect our tourist guides. To have absolutely tourist guides as citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And what are we gonna send them to Ireland, huh? Co-operation must exist with other tourism, with destinations from other countries, however, to liberalise the otherwise difficult tourism sector, mainly now in this crisis, which will be, who knows, it is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40105	Mr. Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40106	I thank the chairman. Dear Representative Bulj, here I am beginning to say that I disagree with you in no way, and since you are an expert on, we see, so far, all areas, and here we are talking about amendments to the Law on the provision of services in tourism and one specific point, i.e. in passing a special exam. Please, can you tell me in your own words how this special exam should look, what degree of knowledge should it have, what degree of knowledge of language should it have, what should that language contain that one who lays it, the guide, should be worthy of your criteria to run a locality in the Republic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40107	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40108	Look, what are you supposed to have? All the things you don't have down in Makarska. You and Mate Jujnovic, who's a brother-in-law on the beach downstairs, means everything you don't have. It means everything. What are you trying to say, humiliate Mira Bulj, huh? Can you tell that to your prime minister when it was thundering where he was? Can you tell that to your people in the bench? But you're humiliating, you're destroying, you're destroying, you're asking your uncle, your Prime Minister Plenkovic what he told you and what he told you. Ask him, ask Raos what he tells you to work with the construction mob, to devast the beaches, to devastate everything, I was down. And what you did in Makarska, from our beach, not yours, but from ours is one of the biggest crimes and devastions of the Croatian coast and concessions, and Split-Dalmatia County is famous for it. And your demeaning encourages me 'Cause you'll never get votes there. [[Thank you very much.]] in your election [[Thank you very much, Mr. Bull.]] The unit as much as I do in mine. [[/Intruder: Time. Time. Thank you very much.]] Never, because you're... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40109	Now it's Mr. Gary Cappelli's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40110	Thank you very much, Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. It's good a little bit of humor, anyway, but it's also good to see basically how the debate goes on that we're getting closer and closer and closer and this and this side that we understand where the problem is and that we're going to correct it until the second reading and that when tourism is at issue, which is very important, where we've achieved a great result, we can criticise, say whatever we want, we were in the Mediterranean last year. 1 where we had over 50% almost overnight, i.e. The arrival of tourists, and unlike that, now that we're talking about Greece, Spain, etc., was about 12, 15, maybe 20% of tourists in those countries who are always, allegedly, when we're discussing tourism, always better than we are and better organised, have better marketing and then reach the season at 10-12%, and we who are so bad don't care about guides, agencies, or marketing, we don't care about anything, or roads, or tunnels, or ferrys, we're interestingly always getting the best results. Now the question is, where's the problem? I think there's a problem in us that we never respect what's right, but we always wake up against. And then we say it's no good that we gave the voucher under this law now what we're discussing, that we gave the agencies the opportunity for the voucher to delay the return of money to consumers, and no one can see that we've protected both consumers and the agency. So this is about 2,000 agencies, 4 and a half, 5 thousand employees. We've protected consumers that you've got all these five, six, ten, 15 days in the agency no more agencies, and the money the consumer wouldn't get back because they wouldn't have it from where to give it. We know well the moment when you pay and even when you don't pay the whole arrangement that the travel agency has to pay 30, 40, 50 somewhere and 100% of some kind of hotel, some sort of transfer bus, some kind of airline, guide, etc., so that money probably one part of those agencies will never get back because they've been given vouchers, you'll use them in the next 10 years. And there's nothing you can do. So that's what we thought about when we introduced it. So now we've given them the opportunity to call them from a billion and a half dollars in guaranteed loans by the state through HABOR and the banks of the agency's power to receive certain credits and, in some ways, be able to repay their duties towards consumers. As for the guide, I think Mr. Mato Frankovic said the position of the HDZ Club and we will stand by that position. In the second reading, of course, we will ask through one or another model of amendments or anything very clearly, so as far as third countries are concerned, I think it's all clear, which is B2 language, regions, by regions, so 5 regions, exams, reciprocity in any case, and probably normally can't have a basic school as a guide, and so the middle professional prepares, so he has to have 4 years of school. A little while when we talked, it was a little bit the same as if the foreigners were leading, we need to know that what's a guide and what's a date. The tracker is a foreigner who is sitting on a bus or the same driver who comes to the country who can't lead, of course, on the bus that he's going to say because it's his property, but the moment he gets off the bus he can no longer lead but is accepted by a local guide, and that some guides from third countries and European countries who had no right to apply, they didn't have permission, it was now a matter of inspection and of all those other state inspectors to try to stop it in time and, like the Italians say in Venice do, so you see the one who runs the stranger through Venice even taking him into handcuffs. Now it's another thing that we regulate one or two of those to give so that it doesn't come back to strangers. The educational definition of each country is very clear and there will be no problems. As far as protected sites are concerned, I have said before in the replica, I was the first to attend the negotiations in the European Commission, I got off the table and I said about protected localities that are tied to the Homeland War talks there is no price at all, and we will never agree to that. That is why we still agreed, agreed, did not agree, and as far as other cultural so-called protected sites are concerned, at one point they told us in the European Commission that we have even proposed far more than one Italy. And I said we might be worth more than Italy in that segment and we didn't give in. So this is one of the results because we didn't give in right away than we still insisted. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40111	But you have a lot of replicas, so you'll be able to continue the debate. Mr. Bacic, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40112	Thank you, Vice President. I'm glad you explained a little about the difference between the companion, the guide, and that you didn't just stick to it as the opposition exclusively looks through tourist guides, but that you mentioned the agencies that we see do not object. We have to go back a little bit, you've been in tourism for too long, and you've been a minister, you've been involved in making all the measures, we have to go back to how the government actually joined in solving the problem in this pandemic about tourism. We didn't mention all the measures, we didn't mention that to the tourist agencies that are now de facto in problems before about the voucher, and about now and the refund, I don't know which country has jumped with these guarantees for such favourable loans that we don't mention all the other measures that have allowed last season to operate on very good foundations. That's what we've been expecting since this season. I therefore agree with you that we should start looking a little more positively at this topic of tourism in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40113	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40114	So tourism should therefore be seen more positively because success in tourism is a smile and therefore the key to all the keys. So, so we could be in those segments, I hope that when this issue is all agreed together, but we also have to mention that at this point we invested over 9 billion in therefore saving jobs it's with commitments somewhere over 13 billion, and that somewhere around 60% went right into tourism. So, for temporary, occasional carriers and hosts, so agencies, tourist employees in hotels and everyone. So that's what Croatia did among the first, and that's not only what Croatia did among the first, but it's about passports now, so last year we made the passes first in Europe. A special strip at the borders for those who had previously responded and therefore had on their cell a sign that they could enter Croatia, etc. So we've proven that we're very much a few times and a step ahead of everyone else supposedly better than on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40115	Mr. Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40116	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Cappelly, here's a question and a comment. So here we have heard from fellow opposition that all the time we say we must protect our tourist guides, we must not allow market liberalisation, that no one comes to us in principle in Croatia to control everything and on our part and then you hear in the end we must definitely help, a practical call not to stick to the EU directive. On the other hand, you hear in the end we must help our tourist guides, our agencies, our tourist entities, from where, European money. Is it even possible to reconcile and should we keep that discourse? I don't think so. This law has its own inadequacies that will surely be resolved in the course of this between the two readings and in any case I think we need to decide. We must stick to European rules, but also when we ask the EU for money that we will only get them then.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40117	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40118	That's what you know when they say they'd be lucky enough to send us money and we'd send them a postcard. Now that's such a comparison, and yet it's not what we in tourism want but rather, by our own service, by our knowledge, we didn't accidentally get to 19 million tourists and over 100 million overnights. So it's not a coincidence like someone behind the pay phone before they said that tourism is happening to us. It may happen sometime, but last year, under the most difficult conditions, tourism reportedly happened again. No, because we've been recognized, because we've had safety conditions, because we've been organized and quality-accessed to the season. It doesn't matter to me that I was a minister... I was a guide from 1985 to '89, I led Plitvice over 70-80 times and Kornate over 100 times and some other destinations, and it was a measure of not being a minister to say but it was a measure of access to this problem and I think we'll all go left and right, and all together find a solution that is best for tourist employees and guides. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40119	Thank you. Mrs. Devereaux. It's a feather.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40120	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear fellow Cappelli, it seems to me that my colleagues are forgetting that we are part of a single 500 million market, slightly less now that Britain has left, so in this part, it is very important that we provide and provide services and actually be coordinated. We all know that when you mentioned this, you mentioned Venice, Florence, Office, etc. No one could enter with their guide without having had a certificate or had to take those headphones, so pay additionally this one for the service that the museum provides. Therefore, this is only the alignment of actually respecting all these common standards standards that we all strive for and one regulated system.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40121	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40122	Thank you very much. Of course it's one directive that we have to say in a certain way that we have to accept, logically, which says on the other hand we're looking for money and it doesn't go differently. In this case, we are given in a way one light possibility of bilateral talks with third parties, which is to say that with Russia or I don't know China or some third country, we can make a reciprocity in terms of this very thing that we've talked about education and all the conditions that they have to have there, and when we go to Russia or somewhere else for a guide, we can negotiate things bilaterally, and everything else about the directive must accept it, but with a very big note and a clear note that we are a specific country compared to all the others after II. The World War in Europe where the worst war was and where they must accept, which they eventually accepted, which is a protected locality and there is no negotiations.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40123	Mrs. Devereaux. Glausine.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40124	Thank you. I am so encouraged by your words and words of Mr. Frankovic about the necessity of conditionality and knowledge of Croatian language and the fragmentation of a special part of the exam at least by regions when not by county, because I suppose when you two say that it will then be such an amended proposal on the second reading. What I'm more interested in, now that we've solved it, is a list of sites, protected sites. So, you said it yourself and pointed out that we proposed more than one Italy, but you didn't tell us that we didn't get through it, they didn't accept it, they're asking us to, they force us to reduce it. The pointal approach was mentioned, please tell me, is it clear that if we accept such an approach and how much it really takes to force us to just accept such an approach, will there be a situation for one page guide to come to the Peristil which will not be part of the protected location because the entire palace will not be protected from the outside of the cathedral that is protected, about this cathedral story?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40125	Thanks, time. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40126	Thank you very much. My colleagues, so look at you and the hydroglycerus outside Venice, you can also talk about Venice, no one can tell you anything, so that this story holds water which way is not regrettable. But I was somewhere until 20.7. Minister I remember that here we may be state secretaries after a familiar word of follow-up, we were then very much said, when they told us that it was too much, let these protected historical speaking war sites, I'm talking about these cultural ones that you mentioned, then we started stripping one by one eventually, but every time we would eventually take one off, and not 50 immediately. So, and that's why all the deadlines that are already ongoing are because we do not agree to say so easily here is not worth it, so I don't know in Dubrovnik, or it's not worth something in Rijeka, so we are very constantly trying to prove to them that we are a small country, but that we have very important, and the number of guests coming to Croatia is evidence.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40127	I'm turning on the microphone. Mrs. Devereaux. Selak Rasudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40128	You mentioned the problem of tourist agencies. The truth is that tourist guides are absolutely unhappy with this bill. Tourist agencies are also dissatisfied. We also had concrete cases that were recently described in the media, some areas of Croatia that are with special attention at the moment in our interest, such as the "Glina" OS where parents couldn't get their money back from the agency, and the agency was justifying that they couldn't get their money back from the hotel. So it's about one very complicated causal chain where everyone pulls out on each other and eventually maybe the most hurt is that most unprotected, end-user. In this regard, parents complained that the ministry had replied that they could sue the agency or seek satisfaction in court. How can we even face the fact that agencies survive, they demand the extension of the voucher by the end of 2022, and yet end-users or consumers are satisfied?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40129	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40130	So here's the law that's just dealing with the question of vouchers, so after the adoption of this bill, you know exactly who will, which, although the secretary of state is at the beginning, I don't know if you might have listened, made it very clear how many such cases are left, practically one minimum minimum, so this problem is obvious and after this law will be resolved by the end. It is very important that the government recognized that this problem could become a problem so that the agency could fail on the other hand, so it goes to a billion-and-a-half kuna funds that some agencies have already requested in the HBOR and in the business banks that go with the guarantee of the state because otherwise it could not raise any, no credit or anything. So that part with these means they solve, I can get the money back, and that's going to be settled with each other. As for the guide, I think that's where we agreed today and that we said that we would approach this guide, here's the first call we have from the guide in the last half hour, we said that they absolutely agree with this proposal that also the HDZ Club said with certain changes. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40131	Thank you very much. Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40132	Thank you very much, Comrade Cappelli. Here,.../incomprehensible... listen to the debate all morning and I think we need wisdom here. Wisdom, not a gap that spills more or less on the side of the opposition, because we don't really need anyone in this country, except, we need a little something if we can help financially, but the other one we can do all by ourselves, right? And then we took the roles of a guide and we even said what someone should say, is, if I listened well, right? Well, at the cathedral in Sibenik, you can say so much, or somewhere else, at some place, what we tell you in the assembly, I think that's how the debate is going. Well, it's not the task of this debate. This task is to solve the problem we have, it's the vouchers, and it's the problems that torture the guides. And we heard an opening speech that was skipped by the secretary of state, which was done in the meantime from counseling to this day, but no one hears it. They don't care. So it's up to us to handle it. No matter what the opposition says, we have made remarks and will likely adopt it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40133	Thank you. Wait, wait, wait, wait. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] - Mrs. Crescent. It's Selak Rasdic. He's got a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40134	He would like to conduct here what the parliamentary representative may say, and yes, you pretend that the opposition does not say anything, as you are going to pretend and now, so again, your proposals that are actually proposals for opposition, and actually suggestions for tourist guides, so that it is clear who is deaf and who is blind in this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40135	You know it was a replica, so there goes the warning. Please respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40136	Thank you very much, Mr. Boric. So, I repeat again, we are in the debate today, I really thank all the colleagues who, in some way, have come to that crucial problem, and I think we're going to go to the end to solve it together in the interests of all the tourist workers and agencies and especially the guides, which is that, with certain changes to the second reading, we're going to have that kind of, I can say almost, I'm not going to say ideally, it's never ideally anything, but in any case, we're going to get to what will satisfy the EU Commission directive at this point, and on the other hand, it's going to satisfy the interest of guides and tourist agencies and, in some way, bring about this pandemic situation, because, at the end of that time, the solution was that we'll return the vouchers after the pandemic. The pandemic is still going on, and we're interrupting it, so it's very clear that we have to explain it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40137	Mr. Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40138	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Vice President and Honorable Representative Cappelly. Several respected representatives here through the debate may have sought to impose the thesis that tourist guides will become some strange people who, especially at protected sites, will distort, especially a newer Croatian history, but this law wants to prevent them from doing so, especially in art. 70 where the explicites say that these protected sites will remain under the authority of the guides who are our guides, who are trained and who, ultimately, passed the exam precisely on this recent Croatian history. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40139	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40140	That's right, thank you very much, Mr. Ivanovic. You just said the most important thing about the article of the law. So it's very clearly defined, and now if we're going to hunt that someone's going to miss something somewhere, so there's these gaps in all the other countries that someone's under quotes, smuggling, so there's some situations that we don't want to do or anyone else. However, I think that most people will have a lot of respect, coming to a country that, after all, has had too many dead and wounded to just so banalize what they will find when they come to Vukovar, what they will find when they come to another destination or Sibenik where there are still too many damage scraps on the cathedral or in Zadar, therefore I think the situation will be extraordinary, but we are all together to point to these problems and not to be them anymore, and this law will define them, especially if it doesn't happen to us, because then by that logic, the problem is also the waiters who come out, and the chefs, and they're very welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40141	Thank you very much. - Mrs. Crescent. It's a pulac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40142	Dear Mr. Cappelli. Let me just say first that somehow here it seems that the only history that's important is what we have to watch out for that professional surrender and quality is, I don't know, Homeland War and now we catch on to it, I think our whole history is important and it's important that we give quality presentations to tourists all of our history. This locality issue, so it seems, will decrease the number of protected sites, talk constantly about the criteria of some, have we received any, from the EU Commission exactly the criteria under which these protected sites will therefore be determined and is it true that open spaces will also be no longer able to be treated as a protected locality? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40143	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40144	Thank you very much, ma'am. It's a pulac. If I were to honestly tell you that I am based on their criteria, we should reduce 70% of protected cultural sites. I'm not talking about this historic, so I'm talking about the Homeland War, so somewhere around 60, 70% should cut me. I honestly tell you, when I was at the interview, and the secretary of state knows it very well, and on the other hand, we still insisted, and perhaps beyond that limit, which not only criteria, but also what would be realistic. So we did not make it up ourselves at the Ministry of Tourism, but we did, of course, put on the ground that through the counties and cities and tourist communities we get exactly what is most important, of course that there were participants and guides who knew the most about it and they were making proposals, opinions that localities should in any case protect, and in this way we approached and gave the first paper, regardless of the criteria in the EU Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40145	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. And now we're going to have a break, so we're being ordered, for the sake of ventilation, and, by 1 o'clock and at 1 o'clock, we're going to have, we're going to have, we're going to have, we're going to have, we're going to have, we're going to have, we're going to have, we're going to have, we're going to have, we're going to have, we're going to have, we're going to have, we're going to have, we're going to have, we're going to have, we're going to have, we're going to have, we're going to have, we're going to have, we're going Thank you very much. By 13, a few minutes before you get here. It's 12:45. We are going back to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tourism Service Act and, as I recall, Mr. Boric is up to it. Yes, Joseph Boric, he writes now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40147	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. The law on the provision of services in tourism has sparked a good debate today, it has also caused on the parliamentary committee, and I think we are more or less close to certain solutions that the parliamentary representatives are looking for, and I think the minister herself, along with her associates, will certainly after what I heard in the opening speech that many people are skipping here today, and the secretary of state was very clear that between the e-consultation and today when we discuss the law there were meetings with those who represent guides in tourism and that their problems will surely come to an end in the sense that this law is then through what we have been saying in the debate and through what they are looking for find the best model to work and to bring it into line with the directive and that it makes sense. Dalmatia is the Croatian part, so our homeland, by tourism I mean right behind Istria and of course people, leading people, politicians in that area have done a lot for that area, of course those who have done nothing like colleagues Bulj, Grmoja and Petrov except for themselves as MOST did not actually contribute to anything, so there are no such things as they always try to do wrong in tourism either. say wrong or try to offend someone who's not here, so he can't even answer them, but well, I'll go back to the law. I'm saying that there were really a lot of objections to e-consultation and they mainly referred to what was said today as a problem, first of all to the voucher agency where we said the state was behind the agencies and they're going to help them get back what they had to pay for, and they didn't, given that there was this pandemic and certain problems in which they all found themselves. I don't think there's much more to be repeated because if once the state was behind entrepreneurship and entrepreneurs it was in these past little over a year in the sense that it's really trying to do the greatest good that everything works and that we're trying to survive on the market as we do. As far as tourist guides are concerned, many tourists are coming to Croatia, we heard in the best years of the 20 million that make 100,000 overnight stays. I respect these people and know what they mean on my island of Rab, and I believe that's the case in every institution. any city or possible municipality that has its values and which means their contribution to tourism, but they are also a small pebble in this tourism. We have a lot of tourism components that we have today, from entering the Republic of Croatia, to the satisfaction of the guest himself in the destination and his safe departure from the Republic of Croatia. We have those who are licensed and know how to get licenses, and here we have said I already in my replicas already have to be wise, not clear. So we liberalize the market let's say in this segment we have to because today it worked until someone rebelled and we're on the rules, certain rules when we enter the EU agree and of course we need to find the best solutions and I believe that we have the wisdom to do it, not in a way that we become an enemy to everyone as they suggest from the opposition that no one can come here, and that wherever we want it to, it doesn't go in the orderly countries, in the orderly states. As for the guides themselves, I think that every small tenant is also a guide, not licensed, but is the first contact of tourists with destination and he must know certain knowledge, of course such thousands and thousands of small guides we have really valuable who work to survive on the market and in some way be at the guest's service at every moment. We must not follow these messages that we heard from the opposition that this is wrong and that it is a suggestion on every law that nothing is right, that this government does whatever it takes for Croatian citizens and when it sets its back to save what can be saved, it always does counter them. That's not true, gentlemen, it's not true because you can talk about it in numbers, we can talk about it in any way, we can talk about measures etc. but to always suggest that we are bad, that we always speak or do counter-Croatian citizens, as they said yesterday that we are doing counter-defense, so against civilian victims, etc. Day after day, it's incorrect, and it doesn't bring them anything. We can see that they're calling for a postponement of the election, obviously there's no way to go to election 16. 5. and that everything has obviously become too difficult for them in view of the policies they conduct, in this public space, and visible to every man.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40148	Time, thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40149	Thank you very much, Vice President. Despite the fact that the snowflake hurt Article 238 of our Rules of Procedure and that it shows a good way to be in the near future Minister of Plenkovic's government for the beauty of reality, I am giving up this breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40150	You're giving up? It's from the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You're giving up on what, excuse me?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40151	Injuries to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40152	All right, come on, you quit. You've given up your warning, practically. Mr. Named Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40153	My dear colleague, it is very interesting that you believe that the assistance the Government has made to the agencies is in the fact that the government has allowed the agencies not to pay back the citizens of the money they have paid for the undelivered service and thus credits practically the money of the citizens of the Agency. Instead of building a Fund that could guarantee funds to return agencies and aid directly to the agencies to be restructured at this time. I have to admit, I don't understand your logic that says that the people who paid the graduate, for that raised the loans, didn't have to pay back the money for a favor they didn't get. The government's task is to behave honestly, to help one another, to not harm one another, and to help others at this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40154	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40155	Thank you very much. My colleague Brumnic and I might like to know that the secretary of state tells us how much money this is about, if you have information, since it can be talked about billions, and maybe it's about millions or I don't know how many tens of millions or maybe smaller amounts. I don't know. But I see the solutions that are offered through the bill, the one that we found not good at, that the ones we care about don't benefit again. They're the ones who were damaged when they paid off their arrangements and the government is trying to find a way through this law to pay them back. And we say, we're against that law, but we're very interested in exactly what the government has damaged. Government? The government hasn't damaged, if the Agency has charged for something that it couldn't accomplish given the time we entered, I don't see that problem. Why do you think that the solution to what you're trying to do is to return to a team that is somehow taken away unfairly, unfairly, but happened in time as it is. It couldn't be achieved the product that was sold, and now it wants to come back, and now we're standing up for it so we're against the law that does it. All right, I accept, that's how you're gonna make the election.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40156	Thank you, Mr. Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40157	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, fellow Boric, you are the head of just one tourist municipality. I believe you know in your head every tourist employee and every business subject at the level of your municipality, but here when I listen to the opposition, I have to agree with you even though one topic of what is here and my colleague Cappelly was saying that we should talk to a smile, because tourism is a very important smile, if we listen to the opposition, the government and the local community have no hearing about these tourist employees, or that it's a foreign concept for us. You said well that most of the tourist areas and counties, cities and municipalities in power are the Croatian Democratic Community knows very well why it proposes these changes and additions. I quickly entered the Ministry of Tourism sites, but here is the site of our secretary of state, not to mention the very measures to preserve jobs in tourism, the delay in the release of tourist tax, concession fees, the changing permanent part, everything you mayors, the mayors have jumped in for tourist employees, that says it all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40158	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40159	Thank you very much, colleague Bacic. We've been through two major crises in the past 12, 13 years. One was a recession, which we caused, let's say in world markets, great economists, and we recovered from it to get into another problem, which we never thought about, that would endanger our tourism. I don't think any strategy predicted weakness or possible threat that it would be a virus that appeared in the public or among humans. From some other countries, he moved to the space of the whole world. No one's ever thought about it, and I don't know if it's written anywhere like a possible weakness or a threat in any strategy, but it happened. And we reacted as we knew, if 10 billion is helping the private sector, of which tourism is the largest part, the biggest part of tourism, because it was the most affected, then we hear that nothing is wrong. And now that we want to solve this problem, which appeared and was visible and we want to solve it, they say we're against it, but we advocate their rights to get it back. That's those suggestions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40160	Thank you very much. Mrs. Danica Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40161	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40162	Excuse me, excuse me, one moment. It was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Brumnic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40163	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Article 238. A colleague, Boric, has now been persistently telling a lie from this pay phone that someone is against solving something. I don't remember anyone saying that. Taking a lie out of a pay phone, putting words in the mouth of other MPs is not appropriate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40164	You know it was a replica, right? Yes, read well 238. In 238, the word lie, truth, and that sort of thing is mentioned? No, I don't. I have to give you a warning. What?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40165	And that's okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40166	And I'm giving you a warning then. Excuse me. You can't comment on that. Mrs. Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40167	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear colleague. Here you and I come from the island, we know that tourism is a very important business branch on our islands and that many islanders rely on tourism they see as a source of funding, progress, and also an opportunity to promote their island products. You've just been to the government and the Secretary of State at the Maritime Ministry and you've been working and you've helped to help that very idea of how to promote island products, use it during tourism. You also said in your debate you pointed out how much this government has been behind every worker in this crisis, how much support it has given for tourism and hospitality that had to put an end to its work, unfortunately during the current crisis. So, it's constantly being helpful, the new package of help to the economies was for so-called. Covid loans, today we've heard the same thing about company liquidity. Thank you. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40168	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40169	Thank you, colleague Baričević, here I am telling you today we must again listen to a colleague from the SDP come out on behalf of the club and say that they are against this law then you say you are lying to me when we find that they are against this law that needs to be resolved the issue of return to the agencies that they have charged, and.../incomprehensible/... and we are having such discussions daily. It means who can remember all the lies we hear here from their side. But I'll be back on the subject. So tourism is important to the Republic of Croatia, and I mean especially our coastal, coastal and islandal part is very much alive from this activity because we know what we've been through in the past year and what uncertainty we've been living in today, expecting this season that we thought would be much better than the past which was 50 percent achieved, let's say nights and traffic, but we see that even today, before the first holidays, before the pre-season, we have very much fear of whether it will happen in terms of everything that surrounds us and what happens to us both with the vaccine and with the pandemic itself and the virus, etc. And the easy solutions they offer, essentially against, we're against it, we're going to support this but with the changes we've made that we're asking to solve the guide issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40170	Mrs. Boska Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40171	The esteemed chairman of the Board of Directors has violated Article 238, which is not what I personally said in front of the SDP Club that we would be against this law. I said we'd be against this proposal in the first reading, and if some of the things I do add up, according to our proposals and discussions and further discussions, we will certainly support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40172	Here's your answer, oh, excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40173	You want me to respond to the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40174	What was that replica or violation of the Rules of Procedure? Mrs. Ban Vlahek, was it a violation of the Rules of Procedure? I didn't see that, then I have to give you a warning. I'm sorry, you almost gave it to yourself because I didn't see it. Mrs. Branko Juričev Martinchev has a replica. What, who? No, all right, make a deal, no. Mrs. Branka Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40175	Thank you very much, Vice President. You spoke about the guides and attitudes of the opposition that everything we do is wrong, everything is against the guide, everything is against our citizens, and you and I know very well, and I would remind our citizens, the Croatian public, as well as these colleagues who were not in the past meeting of the Croatian Parliament that essentially the Law on the provision of services in tourism that we adopted in 2017 was the first time that EU tourist guides could work in the area of the Republic of Croatia and then the law was passed without a vote. Which means they were for and our colleagues from SDP, IDS, MOST, and all of them in such order. 123 votes were for, only five abstentions, without a vote against.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40176	Here's your answer. Whom, please, Mrs. Glamuzina, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40177	This 238th law, as passed in 2018, says very clearly that they can work but must pass special regulations, a special exam as well as our guides per 21st County and it was not disputed you are, now it is disputed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40178	But why do I do that, I'm so embarrassed when I have to make warnings, I mean I know I can, but this is how many times I have to say that this is organic law and every time it's used it's actually a violation of organic law. [[- Well, you can.]] I mean, I'm embarrassed, too. Ms. Boška Ban Vlahek, replica You have the answer, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, you're right, I'm confused. [[I'd like to answer that.]] Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40179	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Yurichev, here's the second I get to this pay phone, everything's kind of a mess, but, well, yeah, we'll try to get back to the subject. So we know everything that's been done, obviously these choices and certain structures that we can recognize through any law and yesterday's defenders or civilian victims, etc., should always be the opposite of what the government is proposing and then they can determine that they will vote against but that they are in favour. And so we've been watching and listening for the past few years and then it ends the way it ended last year 5.7. So we don't have to argue about it. What we want to solve through this law is two questions that are open. And we make it clear through every discussion we have. And the fact that this government is working against someone, it's certainly not true, and we'll see in the second reading that everything we've been saying here is going to have its own realization through the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40180	Thank you. Mrs. Boška Ban Vlahek, now the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40181	Dear counterpart Boris, unfortunately for the last 10 years, we have witnessed the full vulgarization of the profession of tourist guides as ambassador of the Republic of Croatia and I do not think that a three-month education is enough for any future guide to acquire the most basic knowledge needed to carry out this profession. The implementation of education and final exams has been left to most private universities and unfortunately cannot be without the impression that the greater number of such educations is the goal of quantity, not quality. So I'm asking you nicely for your opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40182	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40183	When we talk about our guides I have several on the island, I will not say the exact number because I think there are, every year some new ones come and I know what it means to lead a guide through the old core of the city of Rab. So 2,000 years of city status as a city of Rab is something these people can tell in their own way, how much education at a school or a certificate they get contributed to that knowledge of it is being discussed. What they know, those who have lived and lived there for decades and know how many people are familiar with the city is the best moment in all this. But we also have to meet the conditions, and they were called form, and even this story, if someone noticed us, we have to sue in an appropriate way by wisdom, not by moaning as I said today because we have to find other areas. And that's what we suggested in education how to solve without harming them and their existence. And I think it'll be solved the way we suggested. It's the only debate we have today. So it's good to support the law, don't be against it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40184	You don't have any more replicas, thank you. Mr. Jure Bourkan now has his own argument.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40185	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, my sincerest opinion is that the Ministry of Amendments and Law Supplements is doing essentially one good thing and I am truly sorry that these amendments and amendments of the law have not come before us before and the sooner they come into effect. What I see is that these amendments and additions to the law are worth to everyone in particular the state who is seriously involved and intends to deal with tourism in the future. How much our country is seriously engaged in tourism, so here in 2019 are the figures most vividly showing this. So we're talking more than 19 million tourists who have achieved more, almost 100 million overnight stays and made revenue to our country more than 10 and a half billion euros. It means one serious state that deals seriously with tourism. Because what's so important about such serious tourism? It is important under number one that I have security whether it is our domestic tourist workers, foreign tourism partners or any investment in tourism. The most important thing is that this legal framework is safe and will provide them with their business. We must not forget the users themselves, nor tourists who also want to protect themselves and their interests through a single legal framework. We have a solid Law on the provision of services in tourism adopted in 2018 until today, it has changed several times. However, such a solid law could not predict all the things that are happening in the future. So there are several gaps, and now there are gaps, and in essence, inconsistencies with European directives have been warned by the European Commission, which has initiated two infringements of EU law. And we, the country we are seriously dealing with tourism, must then act on it and bring our legislation into line with European directives as soon as possible. And I think it's important because it's only two changes, especially this first change that is most important and it protects directly users, i.e.. Travellers, which is to make payments to travel in a package of arrangements due to an epidemic of 19 COvid our passengers, our fellow citizens remain in suspense whether or not they will be returned to them and when. Our country then regulated it at the first moment by issuing a voucher and this payment of 180 days since the end of the pandemic. However, all that remains uncertain. And now, with these certain amendments and additions to the Tourism Service Act, we come to the conclusion that our passengers who paid for the package will either turn that payment into another service, and if not, if they break the contract within 14 days get their money back. Very clear. I hold if we adopt the amendments and supplement this bill, that our citizens will welcome it. All those who have said they have not received the money back by now, that they are offered some other variant for which they are not within 14 days of the termination of the contract will receive a refund of their money. And that's why I think it's one very good thing that we're doing right now. We've heard that the agencies have mostly done this before, paid back the money, and certainly for all those who aren't there, our government has adopted a programme to grant state support to the tourism sector of one and a half billion kuna, so their liquidity shouldn't be questionable. What is being imposed as a major threat here, that our tourist workers will be out of work because it changes the way a special part of the expert examination for tourist guides will take place. I don't think that's the case. So 19 million tourists, and with five and a half thousand domestic tourist guides, and only 70 tourist guides have so far consumed this way, I believe that the threat does not exist with the fact that we have heard that the obligation to pass a special part of the expert exam remains in force, with the regulation that will be defined precisely by the second reading, comes out in the right direction for all to be satisfied, including the tourist guides themselves. What I think is much more important is that these are illegal guides and illegal leaderships that are emerging. So people who are never qualified, who don't have any exams today, but now, under the existing law, they're doing professional leadership, we have to hunt them down, we have to punish them. Unfortunately, that's a fact. On the other hand, it would be better to give this greater authority to inspection services, perhaps to extend them to other services, and to address the problem of illegal management as quickly as possible, rather than to lead people who are qualified and trained to do their job.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40186	We have two replicas. The first one is Boška Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40187	Dear fellow, unfortunately, this is not about a free market within the EU with an argument to justify this law to the public, but primarily about favouring foreign guides and tour operators with an emphasis on those countries where the profession of a tourist guide is not regulated as well as countries that are 80% of the broadcasting markets, such as Germany.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40188	Dear colleagues, I thank you for your comment and I appreciate your comment because I know you come from the profession. On the other hand, I look at myself, putting myself in a position to impose such rules on our tourist guides working in other countries that they must walk 21 counties and take 21 special exams. At least I haven't heard of such examples in the EU before. So that's harassment honest for our home guide, let alone foreign. And on the other hand, the rule that will follow the amendments and additions of this law, I believe that it will be well and securely arranged that an unqualified person cannot guide our tourist sites.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40189	The next replica is the esteemed representative Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40190	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Brkan, you were talking about the problem you're facing and these are illegal guides. Can you tell us what knowledge you have about this problem, and did the State Inspectorate react in the event of such a violation of the law? Namely, this is certainly a problem for a tourist resort like yours but also for all other tourist resorts because we are aware that you would become a guide, yet you need to do certain schools and pass certain exams and invest continuous effort and continuous education. Therefore, any unfair competition that comes as a single species could say that the black market is not welcome. So, do you have any more detailed information and how the authorities handle it?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40191	Your Honor, I thank you for asking. What I can tell you specifically from the first hand means that all the big tour operators and serious players are foreign, whether the locals who have their capacities in a tourist destination, whether in hotels or in private accommodation, have mostly their travel companions who stay in the destination but have never caught them in such offences. What happens as an incident case, comes a group passing by or some bus group as we just heard examples, and then they land at the first free parking lot, they're working through a tourist destination, there's no then tourist inspection that can stop directly, and then we react with our communal directors, just to ask them what they're doing, and then they say on some bad Croatian, no Croatian, so they're not professional, they don't have licenses, they have nothing to direct, they help, they assist their guests where they find shop, beach, toilet and so on. It's funny, but unfortunately, that's where we need inspection surveillance much stronger and faster.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40192	Time. The next individual debate, the distinguished representative Katica Glamuzina.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40193	I've had a slightly different story to begin with, but next to this debate, I'm glad to see that some sort of agreement can be reached through a series of discussions and come to some common knowledge, so I'll say first, a colleague mentioned earlier that the law was passed unanimously, that you seemed to have told me,... without a vote against, 2018 [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Yes, it was adopted without a vote then because the directive existed then, however, there were then built into the law some kind of protection against domestic guides as an obligation to pass this particular piece of expert examination by county. Now a complete defragmentation of this work of exams is proposed, and as far as we heard through the debate, it has agreed to some kind of compromise to go to at least regions. So now a foreign guide instead of what is proposed and what we hope will be corrected until the second reading will still be passed those exams, only for five regions for 21st County depending on what he needs. And that is what is done and that is the case for those EU countries and European economic space where this activity is regulated. 13 countries have not regulated that profession, these are listen to which countries. Belgium, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Germany, Iceland, Ireland, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Sweden, Switzerland. All mostly large broadcasting countries as far as this market is concerned. At EU level, this debate has been under way for a long time, and there is a kind of footing among countries between those that are mostly broadcast and those that are mostly receptive, which is logical. What we are calling for is for this debate to continue in terms of the protection of the maximum possible of our domestic guides because the directive is some common objective of the EU and the way it will adapt to national laws is left to the national authorities, is that everyone can choose how it will implement it. Now, we have heard that this conditionality of B2 knowledge of Croatian language will still be accepted, that it will be accepted, I'm probably all saying, is, we're waiting for a second reading, fragmented examination of 5 regions, and what's basically the biggest battlefield is that list of protected sites that persist, forced us to reduce it to the maximum, and we all know that, in fact, the greatest value of all of our tourist locations, I mean no one will come to Dubrovnik and say that he saw Dubrovnik not climb the walls, just as no one will come to Paris and say that he was in Paris without climbing the Eiffel Tower, nor will anyone come to visit Split and skip Diocletian's palace. If Diocletian's palace is not fully protected as a locality, nor at least the Peristil Square, but only the cathedral will be protected, a guide will come, a fine statue on that Peristil as an unprotected square of historical importance and talk about the same cathedral. There is no tour of the city of Split without stopping at the Peristil and looking at the cathedral i.e. entered it. If they do not enter these sites and look at them, no tickets will be paid, and many calculations will feel that they are suffering. I think there might be a better way to respect the directive and a better way to protect our guides. It would be interesting to see how much, I haven't been able to find anywhere, how much they've made us reduce that list of sites so far, because that list is currently in existence, it's published on the Ministry's pages, but what they've already made us take it out of it, it's not visible anywhere, it's nowhere visible, it's the ultimate goal, to what number we have to bring it down. I think fellow Brkan that you mentioned, it's not possible to come to Greece, you mentioned Greece, some Italian lead, and do a tour of Parthenon. I didn't follow the truth now, really which national regulations they protected themselves with, but they did protect themselves, it might be good to follow exactly what some other countries have done, so that it's not us who will bow down most, but that we too may insist on some kind of parity with others.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40194	Two replicas. First, he's a respected representative of Niksha Vukas.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40195	Here, dear colleague Glamuzina, do you know why the defragmentation of a special part of the exam for tourist guides didn't work out before here right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40196	So the bad answer to that question would be because it is now necessary to facilitate other people's doing this job, while when only our guides were engaged in it for the sake of quality of service and honour of profession, a maximum ladder and lay down in the county, all localities were protected, they had to pay particular attention to it. Now that it is necessary to open the door to others, the directive is now specifically in its text asking for maximum simplification of criteria.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40197	Next replica. Dear Representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40198	Dear MPs, when I asked the secretary's question, the secretary with the essence of my question actually turned on the topic of protected localities. The fact is that these localities within the meaning of this Law will actually be the only areas over which we will have some sovereignty. So the question arises, if this is such an important area, why should these sites be defined only in the Regulation and why are they not defined in the Law?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40199	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40200	So, I guess because it would be too much debate open on the issue that is, and then it would be difficult to adopt that Regulation and I guess, I think I accept that the debate about it would be broad and complex and difficult, but I'll draw attention to the next document. The unique methodological and technical rules for the production of acts adopted by the Croatian Parliament, as referred to in Article 17(4), are not permitted to establish an authorisation under which the lower sublegal act would prescribe the conditions under which the rights or obligations or conditions for carrying out certain activities are exercised, as this may be the content of the Law. And it would be good if that regulation were part of the law, if we all saw it, and we know exactly what we're agreeing to with these escapades.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40201	Next individual debate. Honorable representative called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40202	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, There are no colleagues here now that I wanted to replicate, but I'll say, when I go out for this pay phone, then I come out with some reason to try to convince those who are legislators of the law something that I think is right. When one of us says he doesn't agree with something, it doesn't mean he wants something bad, it has another vision, and so does this law. The Secretary of State probably knows that I referred an earlier question regarding the return of money to the users of the Agency's graduation services, because it was completely illogical to decide from the title of those who were users, which the Government then made that these money could only be obtained 180 days after the Corona crisis passed. I, too, pointed out that problem in my question. Now I see there's been some sort of solution. This solution is appropriate. I think the government should have brought it, to the truth of will, not 15 days after we declared Corona, because then it was impossible to see the whole framework that was going on, but that after three months or six months, when it was seen that graduates couldn't keep up, that kids going today, or then going to fourth grade wouldn't take advantage of that opportunity, it failed. It's just that these money won't be used for prom anymore, and those parents were supposed to find a way to get their money back. Whether it was through a way that the state should have made some kind of guarantee fund, whether through the state taking over some kind of guarantees to the agencies, helped them financially to pay off their parents, that should have been the moment to think about it. But what I wanted to say here is whether we are fully aware of how important tourism really is for the Republic of Croatia. 20% of GDP makes that tourism. On the one hand, we say that this is not good, and on the other hand, we must be aware that this is the case today. To miss the opportunity to help tourism today would actually mean that tomorrow we will find ourselves only in an even bigger problem. And what's wrong with me is when the government comes here to the Parliament to change some law, which doesn't bring about the effects of that law in the present time. I would be interested in what were the effects of this Law, which proved to be good, why it turned out to be good, and then it remains in the Law, which did not prove to be good and what should be changed. We here change the law only because, and we do it not only in this Law, but also in many others, because Europe is imposing something on us. We're part of this Europe, we have some benefits, so then we have to follow some rules. But, as I once said, I call on the government every time it comes here with a bill of law or a bill of amendments to some law to deliver the effects of this law in order to know exactly what we are talking about and how we hope it will affect our economy in this case in the future. And I just wanted to say one more word here practically talking about only two segments of tourism, one agency that will pay off the money to users and tourist guides in this way, not taking into account at all that providing services in tourism is much wider, that the impact on the economy itself is much wider and I say now I would really like to see the impact of all the measures the government has taken on our hotelers, small tenants and those carriers on buses. These carriers are very often on television, very often they show the problem they have, and we need to be aware that they carry one huge part of the tourism revenue because we have long begun to say that we do not want to be just zimmer frei but that we want to provide one additional service to tourists who come to the Republic of Croatia, to collect that service, and precisely these car carriers provide this service and provide that service. Here, my time is up, I've got something else, but thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40203	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Marijana Puljak. She's gone, she's losing her right. Next is an individual debate by the distinguished representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40204	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here, after all my colleagues, I think we've said a lot so far, but once again we need to point out that as a member of the EU, we are part of a large market which, as a way of creating certain proposals, we also have to participate in some proposals and look for the best solutions that we will, how we will protect our own economy. Here is a very important segment of tourism services and tourism in itself we know that in 2019 the product of this successful season was over EUR 10 billion and almost 20 million overnights. We must consider that over 90% of overnight stays were foreign tourists in 2019. And that's also what we shouldn't forget when we talk about this important branch of tourism. A lot has been done so far and there have been some expert analyses where there are also monitored how much traffic and overnight traffic was about 55%, and the country is very close or has very significant guests who come by car, so this is the advantage that was ours in this crisis covid 2020, while fewer tourists came by plane and thus here is what they mentioned before, so we as such have achieved much better results than some other tourism countries like Spain, Greece, Italy and so on. So, what is important in this part when we talk about the return of funds to tourist agencies and transporters, so the Republic of Croatia and the government has very much taken up that it is one way to amortise the impact that occurred at the time when certain services were not achieved objectively and given, but also now reacts in a way that, by its guaranteeing state of a billion and per kuna, these same participants can reach liquid assets and quality and timely within 14 days of the termination of the contract, the funds of whoever paid them. Therefore, it is more than correct and it is something we need and we must respect because we ourselves or participants are those who provide services or who are looking for the return of our funds. As far as tourist guides are concerned, I also come from a city that, which has both high quality and high quality cultural facilities and a very significant destination and very high quality guides and is certainly not in the interest of reducing and reducing our jobs and rights, therefore it is very important that we create this law in a way that we can protect ourselves maximumly, but let us not forget that these guides can also go out to other countries in the EU and provide their services by respecting the provisions of these countries, so they can also earn in these destinations as well as here can do theirs under certain conditions with us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40205	Thank you very much, we have two replicas. He is the first respected representative of Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40206	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs here in your presentation you spoke about the help of the country or about tourist guides. So I'm interested that this law should be implemented in a second reading so that our tourist guides will be satisfied? And my second question given the Covid crisis that is there and that there is no bright perspective and since this tourist season does the state have the strength to help tourist workers continue in this way to preserve jobs? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40207	Your Honor, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40208	Thank you very much for asking. Yes, it is very difficult now that it is the second year when uncertainty remains very large and certain that we are all thinking, and so is the government in what way to actually enable quality conditions and in one way to protect the economy itself. But it depends on a lot of factors, and it will be very important that in fact this pandemic in our country continues to develop whether it will be able to relax, whether we will be able to open up as soon as possible, or if we will have, like, 50 or less last year. And as for our guides, it is necessary to set certain criteria, that is also the mention of fellow Frankovic, so I think That's the best way to protect her. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40209	The next replica is the respected representative of Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40210	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, colleagues Peric and I come from the county where tourism is one of the basic activities. And our task here is to represent the views, interests and tourist guides and travel agencies, however, also the users of these services. In fact, let's remember that many of our citizens are, for example, our citizens. We paid out excursions for our children already in December 2019 when it was not to assume that one health and economic crisis would follow us, and just as the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposed in the 4th month, and we passed amendments to this same law to bridge the vouchers. As the crisis goes on, our parents care about money. It doesn't mean anything to them. And I think that this is extremely important and that our parents, above all, will commend this initiative and this proposal that will soon be able to get the money.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40211	Thank you. Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40212	Yeah, that's right. It was really important to react at the right time. So, at first, one transitional period was just to bridge the vouchers. It may be for individual any of these trips or, or departures were simpler, however this way when they are organized, when these children and life cannot stand then surely that parents are not responsible for solving it individually but that there is a possibility of just returning the funds, and then they will decide how they will continue to create a journey.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40213	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Anton Kleman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40214	... My colleagues and colleagues, here I am going to look a little bit more at this problem, so the return of funds to final customers through agencies and state interventions in providing billions and 500 million kuna funds so that tourist activity can be maintained and the entire tourist system can be maintained in condition. [[Specially enabled.]] A few months ago or less than 2 months ago, we had a very lively debate about HGK, before that we had a debate on Croatian tourist communities, so a very, very lively debate where we finally established about the Croatian tourist community itself, so the tourist community in the area of the Republic of Croatia headed by the Croatian Tourist Community that it is necessary to have a system. Without the system, you can't do anything about it today. Infrastructure must exist and today we are also aware in this debate that we want to preserve the system. That we want to preserve the system of tourist guides in the Republic of Croatia, but also the system of tourist agencies that are very valuable wheels and an inescapable wheel in the process of bringing guests to the Republic of Croatia. In this whole demanding tourist year behind us, truly tourist agencies have found themselves in an invisible position, which is that they have received funds from their customers and as they usually do and who knows agency business must be part of the funds if not all the funds to be paid as advances to end-of-the-art service providers, which are hotels, they are car carriers, they are carriers somewhere abroad, and somewhere abroad. Simply tourist agencies and their employees have found themselves in a really demanding situation where they needed this state intervention, which is what we see today with this bill that they should be in charge of our banks with a 100% state guarantee through HAMAG and HABOR so that they can pay back the money to those customers who bought the package of arrangements they offered as their product. Here we must immediately say that there is little to be seen in some discussions that perhaps the correct tourist agencies were not completely, that the money spent in advance is certainly not true. Tourist agencies have to make their part of the reservation in time, and that is exactly what the payments that were launched for that part of the job are, and we need to know, and that is where we definitely have to protect those people who are doing this job so it doesn't turn out that they spent it on some other activities, but they are, therefore, spent just on the work they're doing. I welcome this law in terms of where the Croatian state will stop and with guarantees behind the credits that the agencies will have to raise in order to be able to recover those funds, but it should also be thought about the definition that the end-users of the money they received from the agencies are also getting that money to make them binding and return to the same agencies already paid money. I hope there will be a lot of correctness, at least as far as the country's affairs are concerned, and that the hotelers who will also be part of these users will, therefore, be worth a billion and 500 million kuna funds that they will do in the chain when they provide these funds through the loans. It is also very important to say that with the guide, these suggestions from counterpart Mato Frankovic said on behalf of the HDZ Club that these additional issues that had been given to guides would definitely be addressed as previous issues to support this law. I think in the end we'll all be happy when he votes in the second reading of this law. In my opinion, this is a wine situation. Unfortunately, here are some situations where we have to give in, perhaps for what we wouldn't, if we weren't EU members. But it's less of a victim than we have as a member of the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40215	Thank you. We have a few replicas. The first one's a respected representative of Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40216	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Agent Kleman, you said it was important to create the sustainability of the system. Of course, this is particularly important in the tourism sector, which makes up 18% of GDP. And when we look at this law and directive, but we have also recently discussed consumer protection, it is quite clear that tourist agencies should pay back the money to those who paid that money and did not take advantage of the arrangements. But you have opened one topic that could not be heard here today in the debate, which is that when the travel agencies ask for advance advances they ask for it not from some whim but to be able to book in fact these arrangements in hotels or organise other running or flights or what is already needed to make the arrangement real, so I'm wondering if you have any feedback from our travel agencies. How much did they manage to recover those money they had paid for the arrangements that had not been made?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40217	Your Honor, Agent Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40218	So that would be the real question for the ministry, they probably have that data much more precisely. What I can say in the framework is that somewhere 50% of the funds requested have already been recovered, if I understand correctly. They're not small funds. These are large funds that largely returned by the agencies from their liquid assets. Something was a return and goodwill from our sad end-service providers. But you must know that, in particular, tourist agencies have also purchased a package of arrangements in foreign countries. You know that trips to the vast majority in these exit classes of high schools like to go to both Greece and Spain and the Mediterranean countries. So I don't know how they managed to solve that problem. I think there's just what's left of it that's being said briefly for that money. How this will be dealt with later is all about relations, so agencies and end-users. But that is why it is good that the state will guarantee for this part of the money that customers of these arrangements can still trust Croatian agencies and that they can continue to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40219	The next replica is the respected MPs Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40220	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Kleman and I would have the same replica about this problem that will have our travel agencies associated with the funds they've already paid to the hotelers. Tell me what you suggest when it comes to hotelers who are in the Republic of Croatia and who we can certainly in some way force our legal provisions. And what if it's a hotel in the area of one of the EU countries, and what if it's in a third country?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40221	Your Honor, Agent Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40222	So what we can certainly do to help, so to the travel agencies that have pre-paid the funds and abroad we have the end-user whether they wanted it, if it's the car carriers, if it's the air carriers, I think that the ministry should consider regulating that status especially when using these funds that are now going to be exposed to be one of the conditions for them to return that money to the agencies in the chain. It's very important to maintain, so the chain sells in tourism. It's that system. We often hear very unjustly that tourism is happening to us. No, tourism is not happening to us, it is this system that guarantees that we will be able to bring guests to Croatia. If this snaps in one segment, it won't be good. There will also be no tourist guides that today were the most busy because only individuals will come with their vehicles, there will be no package arrangements organized and they are the biggest users just like the guide service in the destinations themselves. So the ministry has to think lively about how to regulate this return status from end-users to agencies.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40223	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40224	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, Mr. Kleman, and as former minister, allow me to once again remind you of here a multi-hour debate on memberships of tourist communities where we seem to have come to a nice level of agreement where we spoke, or at least we suggested that tourist communities are part of the system and as such absolutely must exist. No one's trying to get rid of it. I'd primarily like to ask you for another answer as to what we're going to do with continental tourism. Namely, our tourism is primarily that of the Adriatic. The fact is that there is huge potential in continental tourism and that as a state, we have to invest consciously and rationally. So, please, just once again, just repeat that continental tourism is a serious and great perspective for Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40225	Your Honor, Agent Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40226	Dear fellow Dretar, to agree with you, it is a very great potential and it is necessary therefore to engage in a Croatian tourist product as a percentage of more continental tourism than it has today. You know if you followed my work, it was short, but you'd say it was intense, I was one of those who tried to develop a Cro card that was supposed to develop this particular, this segment of tourism so continental tourism. My busyness was very high in that, but that minute we have ahead of us cannot be described as what should be done with continental tourism. You are a member of the Committee on Tourism, I am also vice president of the Committee on Tourism, so we can have one, one thematic session where perhaps much, much better this one solves this problem and maybe find some solutions and give suggestions to both the ministry and the tourist communities what to do, so with some ideas to improve their position, their position.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40227	Thank you very much. The next one will speak to the esteemed representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40228	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here we have before us the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tourism Service Act and every legislative proposal that comes into this assembly in two readings guarantees that and I think it should be far more quality than those that come in emergency procedures. I am convinced that everything that has been said today and what could have been heard through discussions in the parliamentary committees and in this assembly that the proposing resolution ministry will also consider in the final proposal a lot that will be found because we all have the same interest in protecting not only our tourist guides and travel agencies but also the users of all these services and our citizens. In fact, we see that this bill has two areas in which we change, one refers to travel and package arrangements related to, travel arrangements compared to vouchers and the other part that speaks of the recognition of professional qualifications in relation to the regulated profession of tourist guides. We have heard criticism that this is what the EU tells us, every time I have to say that it's a little funny when we are bothered by everything we should do in our laws, which we get criticisms and as if we forget that from 2014 to 2020 we have had EUR 10.7 billion at our disposal and that over 80% of our investments are precisely from these funds. What it means for our economy in all segments, from those from designing, building to the quality of life of our pensioners and numerous projects financed from these funds. Not to say again in the next period from 2021 to '27. We have over EUR 24.2 billion at our disposal without which the Republic of Croatia could certainly not think about any development, insurance, or minimum quality of life for our citizens, especially after this health and economic crisis. Speaking of vouchers, we saw that we were all caught up in March last year by this health crisis, then by economic crisis, and that the Government of the Republic of Croatia reacted extremely quickly and already in April 2020. We have had amendments and additions to this very law where we have given opportunity to tourist agencies to issue vouchers for unfinished travel. However, it is certain that many of our citizens are either users of these vouchers or they did not want to use it either, or they actually want their money because of their high pressure and the directive, we need that, and the uncertainty of the deadline related to the end of the disease, passengers will be able to choose whether they want a voucher or funds. However, the Committee, on the Tourism Committee, was told, and could be heard and seen that it was February 4th, '21. This year, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has already decided to adopt a programme to grant state support to tourism and sports sectors in the current pandemic, which was approved by the European Commission by its decision of 11 January and here, just as former counterpart Kliman said, the State is issuing state guarantees worth one and a half billion kuna, and the programme is implemented by the Ministry of Tourism and Sports in cooperation with HBOR and HAMAG. When it comes to tourist guides, as I said in the replica, that fundamental change was another 2017. and there was no representative who was against when it was said that a temporary or occasional tourist guide from the area, from the EU or the Swiss Confederation, would carry out activities in our country, but should have passed a professional exam. And now he has to pass a special expert exam, no longer erases the fact that he has to be organized by the county, but as I believe and as a colleague Frankovic said in front of our club, and the ministry will certainly adopt it to be in the regions. Namely, I come from Sibenik-Knin County, a colleague from Zadar, I don't think you'd mind if the guide laid down for both areas and that it could lead in both areas. You'd point out that when they did In terms of protected areas, well, thank you very much, I'll probably have a chance at a bar. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40229	Dear Representative Dretar has a replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40230	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Your Honor, ma'am. Juričev-Martinchev and you and I, when we talked about the Law on Tourist Communities here sitting very close to each other for a moment found ourselves in some discourse, but later when we talked, we realized that we were thinking and wanting the same thing all the time. Once again, I would like to draw attention to you and ask you for a comment that we are standing before the European Commission's proceedings against the Republic of Croatia are we terribly late with the law we are discussing here today. Why didn't we do it in time? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40231	Honorable representative of Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40232	So here we see today that we're not all unanimous on this bill. In fact, when it comes to vouchers, that's where the funds were to be provided. Now we have only one billion kuna guarantees and talks with both HBOR and HAMAG and representatives of travel agencies. When it comes to tourist guides, we see that we still have through public debate over 400 remarks because the guides believe that they should be fully protected. However, I did not get through the debate to say this would point out, when protected areas and localities are concerned they have special treatment, for example, even in national parks the statutes are prescribed and determine which guides can lead. It means that our citizens know it's not some kind of mess and everyone can run and represent a particular area from any area.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40233	Thank you very much. The next speaker will be the respected representative Goran Ivanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40234	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, a lot has already been said about these two most important things that are expected to be added to this Proposal for the Law on the Amendments of the Tourism Service Act, and I will not add much to it except what is important, and I have said this article in the replica, which is very, very important and for the area from which I come, of course from Slavonia where these sites will be protected especially when we talk about a newer Croatian history. The city of Vukovar as a city hero certainly wouldn't be good if some tourist guides came to interpret some kind of vision of history that happened in the area. What I'm going to use these five minutes to talk about is something that is rarely spoken of in the Croatian Parliament, which is when it comes to tourism it is continental tourism. Continental tourism is something that, with only 2.2%, participates in the tourism of the Republic of Croatia, of course, when we exclude the City of Zagreb. If we say that in 2019, which was the reference year for tourism in the Republic of Croatia, Croatia has visited about 16 million tourists and 100 million overnight stays have been achieved, then we Slavons, Baranci and Srijemci have the right to ask ourselves what our share is. If not only in tourism, and then in what has been said in Croatia for 30 years, this is a combination of green and blue Croatia. So 100 million times someone had to have breakfast, lunch and dinner, and that good home food could have been taken. And here I think we should look for shifts that will make much more just, much fairer distribution when it comes to tourism itself. Of course, Slavonia, Baranja, Srijem are areas that suffered a terrible devastation during the Homeland War. Infrastructure is nowhere near what is in Adriatic Croatia and we are absolutely aware of it. And I want to thank all the tourist workers from these five Slavonian counties and the entire continents that are trying to show that this is also a beautiful part of Croatia, that this may be the most beautiful part of Croatia, of course, if we exception, except for the Adriatic. And if there was and what to see and what to see and what to experience and I would say that there are no more benevolent people than our hosts who can welcome everyone in this area to our beautiful homeland. I think that the Ministry of Tourism through its projects, through its programmes, has not forgotten continental tourism and that continental tourism is something to start taking on not resources only but also fully prepare it for what it could provide. So when we look at Istria just 20 years ago, it doesn't look exactly the same as it was 20 years ago. Why? Because much is invested in infrastructure, serious money has been invested in what is called a tourist offer and what is called a tourist product. So here is the occasion I want to say that talking about tourism needs as much as possible, but what must be done much more in tourism, makes the continental part of Croatia the same opportunity for its development, to create jobs, to create perhaps assumptions for staying in this part of Croatia, which is not so great yet. And I just think that both the Ministry of Tourism and the Government of the Republic of Croatia are thinking the same way I said here and that in the times ahead of us and these statistics and these figures that I've given here are probably different, we'll be much better, more favourable, and Slavonia, Baranja and Srem will remain as beautiful and valuable as they have been in these past years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40235	Thank you very much. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Simicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40236	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, my first question is about tourist guides. I hope that until the second reading will be the best solution that will truly satisfy all those who deal with this work. Secondly, the second thing I wanted to say is that we tourism is not only on the Adriatic but throughout our country of Croatia. Dalmatia is a brand, has infrastructure, has everything, and Slavonia is so rich, not only beautiful, but also rich and healthy food produced there. And what do you think we should do, invest in infrastructure to discover the continental part of Croatia, and thus help our OPGs to produce And place healthy food? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40237	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40238	As far as tourist guides are concerned today, the question here is often what we have been waiting for for so long. Well, we've protected these tourist guides, and here we are until we've been practically brought to the wall when we have to do this part of the job, but already when we have to implement it in this European regulation, then it's the most honest thing for these honest people who represent both our tourist offer and our history and everything they do. As far as Slavonia is concerned, here is one of the things that would significantly improve Slavonia's economy, in Slavonia, it is that hotels on the Adriatic when categorization is done, when stars are given to make one of these things the domestic food produced on our OPGs is the added value of getting 4, 5 or 6 stars.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40239	The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40240	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Sir, Croatia should therefore be open to all those who come in terms of and tourists, and in terms of guides coming from EU member states. But what we should do until the second reading is get a few things fixed, put them in the law itself, to avoid everything that we've been discussing all along. In the first place, it would be necessary to protect the home guides that we know more or less about going through quite a large education to become or acquire at the end and the guide license. Another thing for all those coming from EU members I think we should introduce a national single exam that will cover everything that county levels as such have and in a cultural sense and prescribe. The third thing we should be sure to do is define the frameworks and contents of a place with a special piette within which and according to which someone from EU member states can speak about them and not coming out of those frames. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40241	Thank you, thank you. Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40242	Thank you very much, dear representative Kujundzic. It is here I will start from this last one, says Article 70(4) of the Rules of Procedure prescribes a list of protected units, localities by county, with the previous opinion of the Ministers responsible for culture and nature protection affairs. Thus, and what Mr Cappelli said, and perhaps it went a little below, under the radar that in these negotiations with the EU, over 60% to 70% of those localities that were also supposed to be the same, equally on the market. We heard from the debate of all practically parliamentary representatives that by the second reading, the proposal of this law would probably look different and that when the law itself was passed, we would be satisfied, but perhaps we are less important than those for which the law would be passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40243	And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40244	Thank you. Dear counterpart Ivanovic, here is one day of tourism Mr. Selimir Ognjenović, one of the biggest names in the tour operator's segment, announced that he has become, there has been an increased interest of tour operator for just the continental part of the Republic of Croatia. But unfortunately, that boom didn't happen, not because of them, but because of us living on the continent. those who deal with tourism on the continent because tourism is an experience, it's not just tourism to eat, drink and sleep, but there's something between it and giving tourists an interest throughout their stay which obviously we didn't do well because we're obviously afraid of some concepts and we don't think we need to know what infrastructure to connect us. Once when we were at a tourism fair in Moscow, a Russian told us, your capital is mildly on the coast of the sea. We didn't immediately realize it, but when you think about it, we don't understand the concept of distance, and I think that's our big problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40245	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40246	I agree, Your Honor, so I'd say that here we are sometimes in our beautiful Slavonia, Baranja and Srem. Two years ago, the days of Croatian tourism were held for the first time in history on the continent. They were held here in these 5 Slavonian counties and we really showed up here even came out this new tourist product of praise, and it was hedonist something that really promised to happen that tourist boom, after all this unfortunate Covid came along and disturbed the whole story. But one of the things we should be concerned about when it was sought, or when it was a great study of the concept of Slavonia, and what is among the first associations when you say Slavonia unfortunately in the third place was poverty. It's something that's simply not good to create a brand, to create quality, but I believe with here's the government's Suport, that the continent will also experience its Renaissance when it comes to tourism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40247	The next debate will be her respected representative, Zeljko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40248	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, today we are mostly focusing on tourist guides and this problem of possible arrival of foreign citizens who would work as tourist guides in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, that we have debated in many different ways today, but we have generally agreed that we should protect domestic tourist guides, but that we have not yet found a way, but I think that by the second reading we will find a quality enough way that we will not discriminate against persons from the European Union who want to work as tourist guides in the Republic of Croatia, but we will protect and put domestic tourist guides in a more favourable position. But it's not just our guides, so if we look at it so that no one should come to us. What about the caterers? Today, anyone from the European Union can open a company in the Republic of Croatia, from any part of tourism, to any activity that is related to tourism. There's the transporters, too. But our people can also go to the European Union to do these things. Many of our Croats, unfortunately with their belly after bread, had to go to Europe because there is not enough work in Croatia. I believe that there will be no rush of foreign tourist guides in the Republic of Croatia, especially if they have to pass the exam in Croatia, because it is probably not easy for them to learn Croatian language, but that there will be, and they will do nothing to disrupt the situation more than today's crisis has disrupted and taken away the work and tourist guides that are here today. A good sentence was said by a colleague named Kleman. We need to make sure that the entire tourist system is maintained in the context of the situation, and that is what is the task of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to find the measures that will keep the whole system in shape, that on the day when, and I hope that this will happen, that the Covid crisis will finally stop, that our tourism system will wait and accept all those who will want to spend their summers in the Republic of Croatia, not only summers but also in this continental part, which is not neglected by those who conduct tourism through all these years, but obviously that in the continental part of the understanding of tourism, it is not enough to say, attractively, that this job is not considered attractive enough, because there are other activities on the continent that are more attractive than tourism, so we do not invest and do not make any new ideas to attract guests into the continental part. The continental part of providing experience does not lag behind the coastal part, but I think that people in the coastal part will one day realize that tourism is not just the sea and that it will finally connect that part of the tourist and coastal and continental, because when you look from Osijek to Opatija is about three and a half hours of normal driving. It's not much, some people in Europe travel an hour, an hour and a half to their jobs every day and so much at home. So, tourism for Croatia should also be connected to it in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia as a united tourism, but unfortunately today we share in tourist employees from the coast and tourist employees from the continent. I was Secretary of State with Minister Damir Byce. The big problem was when Bice became a minister, as he could be a minister and not from the sea. In the end, he showed that he was a good minister and that he was working with the sector. We need to communicate more, we cannot isolate ourselves, when we have accepted that we are entering the European Union, then we have to be aware that we will be or strive to be equal with others, but that others are equal with us and in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40249	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. She is the first respected representative, Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40250	Dear colleague Lenart. We swear on tourism, we are a country that is largely dependent on tourism in its GDP. And now what seems to be happening to me is this bill of law, and for which tourist workers are dissatisfied, in this case guides, because the first fact that they are not equal in relation to potential tourist guides coming from the European Union because of what they had to take, and which is now flexible for those who are coming, and on the other hand, which are in some way not positively discriminated against. Because we lack workers in tourism, we have changed the Law on Foreigners, so that we can draw labour in Croatia, and now we create a legislative framework that sends a negative message to an existing, anyway missing, working force, in this case to tourist guides.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40251	Thank you. Your Honor, Agent Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40252	I agree with you, and I think this law should be achieved by the second reading so that our tourist guides are more equal than those who should come. The fact is that we lack labour, not only in tourism, but in all sectors of the economy, because our most qualitative workforce and relatively young, went to build Europe and make profits elsewhere, but these are the wrong policies that we have led all these years. I started my working life in a private company, where we're told, look, if you're not gonna work, there's ten of them who will. For the minimum. And it came today to be charged to all entrepreneurs, including those in tourism. No one in tourism can work for 3.5 thousand kunas and pay for apartment and food, spend out of their place of residence, working somewhere without saving anything from it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40253	The next replica, the esteemed MPs of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40254	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, it is no wonder that the debate, when we mention tourism, also caused a multi-hour debate in the Croatian Parliament for the simple reason why we are a country that is very sensitive and related to tourism. But I'd like to kind of point out two things. The first thing when we comply with certain legislation at EU level is that we must not be a stepmother to our own people. So, the EU never says that we need to coordinate in a way that we do. So we have to take absolute care of how much we can protect our people. So not only do we protect them here, but we allow them to work somewhere else under the same conditions. But something I'd like to point out? What is the meaning of tourist guides? So, the sense of improving tourism. So we need to wonder if this law will give us better quality people with more experience. Because it doesn't make sense that we have tourist guides to be tourist guides. They serve to improve tourism as offers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40255	Your Honor, Agent Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40256	Tourist guides just what you said should improve this experience that has come to experience our guests in the Republic of Croatia or those who are domestically in some kind of tourist package. What exactly is the number of domestic tourist guides, do we have enough, are we going to reduce quality this way? Or maybe we will, but I think as I said, there won't be so many Germans, Italians, or I don't know any who don't know the situation in these areas who'll want to be here as tourist guides. And as for positioning, there are those who swear on patriotism on the mission, to be patriot to our people who earn income here, that when we prescribe EU directives they will also be upgraded on our part for the benefit of our employees.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40257	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40258	Dear Representative, we here today in this House are also discussing the fate of 5,000 tourist guides as many as there are in the Republic of Croatia and the fate of their families. We must try to protect them and that they can continue working here in Croatia, not to have an alibi, the answer that they can work in other countries of Europe, or other countries. I think we need to make sure that this law ensures that those who are loyal to our country and provide quality services to enable them to be even more quality, that they actually present our country in the right way. Since some countries have protected access to education in such a way that a person who wants to be a tourist guide in their country and when you approach by education must also be a citizen of that country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40259	Your Honor, Agent Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40260	I hope that many of these 5,000 guides have some work to do because I doubt that they can live exclusively on the activities of the tourist guide. As I said, of course, we must protect them, of course we must find a way between these EU regulations to integrate our patriotic component. But often we overwrite and try not to find some kind of hole in those regulations to favor our tourist guides. I'm gonna compromise with agriculture. Europe has hidden support for its farmers, so they produce such cheap pork. We don't have the covert support and then our sector goes down. We also need to find a model in this tourism sector to help tourist guides.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40261	Thank you. The Republic also has a respected representative, Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40262	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Representative, you will agree with me that our tourist guides are excellent in their work thanks to the education they receive. This is where dilemmas appear in a way that solves the situation, given that we are part of a major European market. Here I am asking you to tell us if you accept what Mr. Mato Frankovic was saying this morning about foreign tourist guides coming to our country to do this job for Croatia. Do you accept those conditions as an opposition representative? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40263	Your Honor, Agent Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40264	Look, I said in my first debate that on July 1, 2013, we entered the EU euphorically thinking that we would just win and give nothing. It's the same situation here. If we want to work and move on the whole EU market, then we must also allow members, i.e. EU members also work in the Republic of Croatia. Of course I agree that conditions should be set, as my colleague said it would be Croatian, knowledge of everything they must know and ensure the quality of this tourist guide that will be on the ground. So now whether he came from Croatia or came from another country, but here I am convinced that very few will be those from other countries that will come to Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40265	Thank you very much. The next will be a debate between the respected representative of Hrvoj Zekanovic. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. So finally, we are now going to the final debates first to speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Mato Frankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40266	I thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I believe that we are all very aware today of the fact that the proposed legislative amendment is necessary. I am pleased that there is indeed a consensus in this assembly today on how the final proposal of the Law in the second reading should look and that is why I call on the Ministry of Tourism to include in the second reading proposals as I have previously stated. Therefore, Article 70 on or in protected areas, a tourist guide may provide services if he submits a specific section of the expert examination for protected areas and localities in the regions. The following is therefore, Minister Regulations prescribes a list of protected units per region, with the previous opinion of the ministers responsible for culture, nature protection and defenders. In addition to the proposed following, Article 73 should be read as follows, in order to know the language in which the tourist guide level B2 services will be provided, according to the degrees of the common European reference framework in understanding and speech and to know the Croatian language of level B2 according to the degrees of the common European reference framework in understanding and speech. As far as the localities are concerned, we've heard objections to the point of approach. For example, Dubrovnik City, the historical core is a protected site, all other areas, such as Telafite, the upper villages of the Dubrovnik coast, the Dubrovnik Rivers, are not protected sites, so we must not go too far, we must be clear Thank you, therefore, we need to be clear that what is really a protected locality, we must, of course, be guided by the profession. [[Intruder Željko Reiner: Please, we can be a little quieter, so that colleague Frankovic can speak, please.]] So, it's best that the Ministry of Culture on its part does its part of the job, protected localities, it's much easier because most of these sites are under UNESCO's protection, the Ministry of Environmental Protection to do its part of protected localities, and the Ministry of Defense can, and the Ministry of Defense, I think the Ministry of Defense is better at this story, to do the issue of protected localities that are important and are related to the Homeland War. It is very important to us who, how, when and where will talk about Croatian history. That's very important. At the same time, we are part of a large European community, from which we have large benefits and we must respect the regulatory Europe, but if the European Union has said that the Member States have the right to set criteria for education, we are the ones who set those criteria and do not run away from our obligations, let us not be overly liberalised, because in this way we will not protect what we want, it is Croatian originality. I repeat again, tourist guides have always been the pride of Croatian tourism. Promoting Croatian tourism, they should remain that way in the future. Of course, not restricting any European Union resident to come to the Republic of Croatia, he passed exams in one of the 5 regions or in all five regions to pass exams and do the same work as our guides can go to Greece and another country, pass the exam and do the job. So we don't ban anyone, what we do, and what we want to do is set clear rules. Now, if the current law were to pass, then we really liberalized the whole story. One exam for all of Croatia. So I'd like that superman who can lead the groups from Dubrovnik to Vukovar just as well, know every locality, know how many statues of St. Vlach only in the historical core, which is important to this locality, to know how to bring the soul into it. That's why I think we have to do this second reading, not waiting for the amendments, if we really have a consensus here, and I think we have to go with this proposal like we said, and get the situation win-win, so. As far as the European Union is concerned, and as far as Croatian guides are concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40267	Thank you very much. Next up, it's attorney's club Mosta, final. In the name of which the honourable representative Marija Selak Rasdic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40268	My colleagues and colleagues. At the end of this debate, one thing remains unclear to me. We have the HDZ government and the HDZ Ministry that drafted this bill. This proposal of the Law came upon a great disapproval of the profession, and moreover, we bear witness to the number of more than 400 objections in the public debate, by the wave of tourist guides. Likewise, their resolute associations were negatively evident about the current bill. It was all well-known to the Ministry. Because the great revolt was at all the fact that it came out with this bill of law, as well as the way the debate was conducted with the restoring associations. So HDZ's authority, or the tourism ministry, despite all that it knew before it came to these assembly benches, decided that this was the best possible proposal for the Law. All right. Then we come truly to the Parliament and suddenly, this same HDZ in the constituencies realizes, experiences enlightenment, that however some changes are needed, which, you wouldn't believe, are expected to go the way, God forbid, opposition proposals or these opposition amendments, but which will only be accepted by the Ministry, HDZ's changes, or perhaps HDZ will then propose some conclusion, and I believe that this will happen now and before these standard procedures, perhaps already in the second reading itself. Why'd you wait till now? Why do you make your own suggestions and accept your own suggestions? Why are you mulling this debate in the Parliament? Because you don't respect the opposition proposals anyway. Is it necessary to make enough noise in the media? What exactly does it take to make real changes? Because all of these suggestions, all of what we are talking about here, about which the opposition almost unisonally rises up in the defense of tourist guides, but not only of tourist guides, but also of our country and our language, Article 73 of the Croatian language to a sufficient extent that Croatian history and Croatian localities can be talked about at all. It's all been well known to you. But you ignored the profession. When things rise to a higher level, all of a sudden the same proposition turns out to make sense. Let us not be insecure, suggestors or do not work, they should not be respected for media pressure or for the fact that you have realized that it will not be politically announced at some point when it comes on stage. The proposals should be there and accepted because they are the best possible suggestions. And in this, but also in all other laws. As far as this bill is concerned, the current situation should be left, monitoring Croatia with a difference, and aligning protected units with the protection of the Ministry of Culture. In addition, an old system should remain where everyone is allowed to lay protected units by county, introduce a special category of escorts in the Law, who do not interpret the work of a guide, who has the right to interpret general history and geography and other because he has laid down the general part until entering protected sites for which special laying is required at the level of the county. Tourism is a branch of special importance for Croatia. Unfortunately, we have allowed it to be a branch of crucial importance for Croatia, I say, unfortunately, because it is not opportunised to depend exclusively on tourism in the time that is incessant. Well, that's how it is. We make different and legislative concessions in order to make Croatia a more tourist country, change the Foreign Law, introduce a new law that will deal with, or regulate the status of the so-called digital nomad in different legal provisions. And when it comes to our tourism workers, we forget to fight for their rights. They need not only an equal position within the European Union, that they suffer and the effort they need to go through in order to be able to speak qualityly about the beauty of Croatia, go through and everyone else at European Union level. They also need some way and some form of positive discrimination to keep them in Croatia, thus allowing Croatia to remain a tourist country.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40269	Thank you, and the next club will be that SDP. And the Honorable representative of Katica Glamuzina will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40270	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. A number of clear conclusions can be drawn from today’s debate. The Directive exists at European Union level, adapting national legislation to that Directive is an obligation, not an option. So we don't have a lot of luft, we have to adapt it to our legislation, but it's up to us to find the best way to adapt it so that we don't do too much damage to our guides. In fact, the regulation itself is regulatory on the recognition of professional qualifications, in terms of eliminating obstacles to the free movement of persons and services, which includes the right to perform a particular profession in a Member State other than the one where professional qualifications have been acquired. So at this point, this applies to tourist guides, but it's not necessarily just a battle over that profession, it's going to happen yet. It would be interesting, given that the Directive applies to all countries, and those in which the profession is regulated and those in which it is not, it would be interesting to get information about it, here I will wait for everyone to consult... it would be interesting to get information about the stage of implementation of another country with this Directive and those where the profession is regulated and where it is not. Because the goal is to get to some level, that's right. We appeal to continue the debate and to find a better way to implement this Directive in our laws, in a way that would nevertheless better protect our guides and give them a chance to survive on the market. Second, it can be concluded from today's debate that the proposals of the Community of Croatian Tourist Guides will be accepted, that the required level of knowledge of Croatian language is clearly defined in D2, B2, and that a special section of the expert examination is defragmented from the level of county to the level of 5 regions. What's left to solve is that famous list of protected localities. This list of the backbones of the work of our tourist guides and presentation of our cultural heritage to all visitors and is precisely the most interesting place for visitors. We are forced to minimise this list, but if we are to reduce it to the extent that one Diocletian's palace will not be completely protected by the locality, then we can freely give our guides the direction to apply to the Office of the Unemployed, because the viewing of the cathedral from the outside, with the unprotected Peristil, is not to be angry, equally to give them a piece of paper, on the one hand the image of the cathedral, and on the other hand Wikipedia's text about it. There's no such thing as a profession. I hope that locations under UNESCO's protection will remain fully protected, that this UNESCO factor will nevertheless be relevant in the adoption of this reduced list. We have clearly heard that due to the deadlines of the apropo lawsuit that Slovenia has filed for us, we need to adapt the EU Directive very soon. But in the course of today's debate, we have seen that it is possible to adapt this proposal a little bit in a way that satisfies and adopts regulation, the Directive, I apologize, and gives some level of protection to Croatian tourist guides. I hope that this compromise solution can be found on the list of protected sites and we would like to see that list of protected sites in the next reading as an integral part of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40271	Thank you. The Honorable representative, Davor Dretar, will now speak on behalf of the House of Homeland Movements' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40272	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, we are here at the end of the debate. Of course, ultimately, the Honorable Secretary of State will tell us something, but I'm sure we must once again say that this is an extremely important law. I'd like to take you on an imaginary trip now. We will start with Croatia's Zagorje, which is the western border of Croatia with Slovenia. Let me just start by listing what we're going to call and calling a protected site. It would take me a lot more than these five minutes. Not to say, then, that we pass through our Međimuri, the Varazdin area, through the Podravina where we believe or not almost and the only European desert we absolutely not used in tourist promotion. Then we will descend from Ludbreg and enter the Virovitica, Slavonia, not to mention the treasures we have all in the continental part of Croatia without worry, I have not forgotten the mountain cotar and the like with our phenomenal beauty. It's our continental tourism. And yes, it should be invested in. I'm extremely sorry that she's not here today, Madam Minister. I'm sure there's obviously more important work to do, but I think she should be here today because this is really one very important law that we're all aware of is unsaid, that he's not well-formed, that he's not articulated. That's what we agree absolutely all of us on the left and on the right of this assembly. I think you have a lot of work to do before you bring this bill to us in a second reading. I listened a little bit and followed this whole debate completely with the respected representative Frankovic. Yeah, we're the ones who bring the criteria. We are the ones who make the laws, we are the Croatian Parliament. We were sent to these places by the Croatian people, Croatian voters and we are the ones who pass laws, not semi-written regulations, which will then be later edited so-called. Sublegal acts or rules. The system must exist and I've heard that. Yes, an absolute system must exist. Without a system, we have nothing to lean on, we have no one on the ground. We must have tourist communities that is completely clear to everyone. But the fact is that the system is trom, dormant and market incompetent especially when we talk about tourist communities on the continent. Believe me, although I have never been a Minister of Tourism or worked in any tourist agency but as a manager and owner of a small event agency I have visited almost the entire continent of Croatia and I have to say and I will repeat again as in the debate on tourist communities we have fantastic people on the ground. Here is the esteemed representative Ivanovic, our dear Lac, not here we've worked very hard together. Baranja is an undiscovered pearl of Europe. We have so much potential there. But there, as in every part of Croatia, we need an educated and really well-prepared tourist guide to present this to these people in an adequate way. We have an extremely high chance. I agree, and once again, I would like to thank the esteemed representative Kliman, who has suggested that we discuss this at a special thematic session of the Committee on Tourism and, above all, I am sure that we will encourage it. I've heard another great sentence, tourism isn't just the sea. Of course not. I went once in my life to the Dominican Republic, when I got there, then I really realized that the Adriatic Sea was the most beautiful in the world. These beaches of theirs believe you people are worth nothing. They're beautiful only in the photograph. It's a shallow sea, that sand is no good. I had the most beautiful experience when I was sent on a trip to the inside of that island. So we must create a good, thoughtful, organized tourist product if we are already based on tourism on the Adriatic, bring these people into the interior, show them the beauty of our continent and, of course, feed them well. Let's get them a glass of top Croatian wine and bring it home and return to their homes with the story of Croatia you need to see it. Thank you very much. And since I still have three seconds left, no one has said it yet, I must have given birth to Maya Shuput. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40273	Okay. Here, on behalf of the promoter, will speak the respected secretary of state at the Ministry of Tourism and Sports, Tonchi Glava.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40274	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. So here is at the very beginning of this opening presentation first to thank you all for a constructive debate, for everything that is said here today and, of course, as every time we come before you here from the Ministry of Tourism and Sports we listen carefully, analyze and of course we will try to respect all your constructive quality proposals. I am glad that Dretar is still there, because today the topic is open by him, his colleagues Lenart and several other colleagues related to continental tourism and undeveloped tourist areas, so here I am somehow obliged to let you know in this opening part what has been done on this matter and how far we have progressed in this direction. So, in the term of the government of Andrej Plenkovic, so in the previous government and this one has now made a real revolution in access to undeveloped tourist areas and continental tourism. So, let me remind you that the separations there were record in 2019, before that in '18. the years of secessions that went directly to undeveloped tourist communities and the continent were at the level of some direct competitions somewhere at 8 million kuna. So, in the record tourist year 2019, and in last year's 2020, so a year that was a disaster for Croatian tourism if we look at the context of those record results, we gave direct distribution to the continent and touristly underdeveloped areas and associated tourist communities slightly less than 40 million kuna. So 5 times we have increased investments in the continent and underdeveloped tourist areas because we believe that this is the direction we should go, because we know how to develop the entire product of the Republic of Croatia, because we know that we need to develop all 10 key tourist products that are defined by our strategic documents, and one large part of these tourist products can be created, developed, developed exclusively on the continent. On top of that, in further changes, in the complete reform of the tourism system that we have made, we have provided one so-called. So for all tourist communities that are county tourist communities, which are underdeveloped in which all those who have less income than 500,000 kunas are therefore direct, original revenues where they are directly allocated and there are some little less than 3 million kunas added. So with one very clear plan that those who are weak we raise and that those who are powerful we share and develop the continent. And on top of that, you yourself mentioned that for the first time in history, i.e. a colleague, Ivanovic mentioned that for the first time we organized the days of Croatian tourism on the continent and that 5 Slavonian counties are precisely aimed at changing the paradigm, concepts of continents and undeveloped areas, and that we have made a big step because here you see that already as a consequence of these days of tourism we have some concrete tourist products and offer that we are particularly proud of. Then, on the basis of this, we have also made a common strategy, so master development plan and Slavonia as a whole of one region, as well as the Gorski kotar. And it was all done in the term of the government of Andrej Plenkovic, and there is one continuity. So from the previous government to the one where we work out and move the boundaries forward to the better and we develop in the right direction but of course Covid-19 and the world pandemic has made one brake of course for all of us, which is logical. Here are mentioned ministers and officials from the sea and land etc., so I will just remind you that this is about changing the paradigm and the way Croatia's tourism on the continent was developed not by the Minister from the continent and officials but by the Minister of the Sea and by officials from the sea my former secretary of state, me and the former minister who we are all from the sea. So it doesn't matter whether it's from the continent or from the sea but whether we're developing in the right direction, and we believe that we're all sharing an idea, a vision, and we're developing in the right direction. As for now a little bit more specifically this topic which is why we are here today and to try some of the most important, most important information repeats it or to explain it in an even more simple and quality way. So here we are today by amending this law because of a violation of EU law. So, two legal infringement proceedings. One is related to the package travel directive and related travel arrangements or to vouchers and services Directives on the internal market and to the recognition of professional qualifications in relation to the regulated profession of the tourist guide. Both infringements of EU law are in the second stage of the infringement procedure. Therefore, the reasoned opinion, or the final stage before the EU Court of Justice, and the representatives who spoke here today on the one hand and on the other, received more information about it, elaborated so that I think it is unnecessary to tell you about these certain dates and what awaits us in the period ahead of us. So it is perfectly clear that we must make changes that are therefore on the trail of the directive, on the basis of the European acquis, and, of course, in a way that we can try to protect both tourist guides and professions in general. It is very important to point out and I will repeat myself to MPs Selak Rasdić if I am not mistaken you mentioned something about communication with tourist guides and you may have missed my opening presentation or in replicas to emphasize how many constructive meetings we held with them. So I've said that I'm at least personally at least one 10th, and on the trail of the whole team in the last maybe a year and a half, two years, so close to 20 meetings, seven of them have been held formally online or offline in the past 5 months if I'm not mistaken, if we have dates all written down, it's now irrelevant. I just want to give you the impression that we're taking great care of each other and that we're meeting both formally and informally, and we're talking, we're communicating. But of course what I have to do with this law may not be in one part or some parts of what tourist guides would want, which is understandable, they care for themselves and want to protect themselves, and we care for them, we want to protect them, but also all other stakeholders in tourism, but also, of course, the Republic of Croatia and all our obligations towards the EU and the implementation of the acquis. So, I think the perfect situation here is clear and we don't need to waste any more words about it. As far as the protected sites mentioned today are concerned, I will again mention the topic of protected localities and education is related to the regulations that we will be working on. So, who are not in this law, but the rules for which a working group of 40 already started working, and that's something we're going to solve, I hope very quickly and efficiently. So in the current version of the current regulation, we have over 550 protected sites, which is something that is considered by the EU as restrictive. And now that you look at one I'm going to give you a little example, we, among other things, have a forest in one of those 550 protected sites. I'm not going to mention exactly where, which is irrelevant, so the point is that we have a protected forest, which is kind of illogical. Of course, because in what way limiting this site would endanger the conditionality of either the profession or our tourist service. So what I'm saying is that there's a space, and we need to think very carefully about that part of the locality being corrected in a way that we really look at what it is and what we need to look at on that list of beings. But I will mention another very important thing, and I will attach myself to one of the information shared with us by the Mayor of Dubrovnik, Mrs Mato Frankovic. So, one whole series of sites if you start from all cultural institutions, if you start from museums, if you go from churches, cathedrals, etc., national parks, nature parks, they can all individually prescribe their own rules, so who can, who can't run groups in their territory and how this service can be provided and thus is regulated by a large number of EU members. So nobody forbids us at that level to distribute. So, on the one hand, we have a restriction and an infringement of EU law, and on the other hand we have something that can be defined independently at the level of an institution that is conditionally referred to as a tourist attraction. So that way we can also regulate this part and that's 100% according to the law and what we have to do, and an example of the City of Dubrovnik and the Dubrovnik Walls, which is probably one big majority of you don't know, which is that there's no organized leadership on the Dubrovnik Walls. It is also something prescribed by the City of Dubrovnik and their leading institution. Why? It's no reason not to want to be interpreted, but because of the crowd, because of the flow of guests, etc. So the Dubrovnik Walls gave themselves the right to define the conditions of organized leadership and guides in the area, so other institutions can. As for leading, tourist guides that were partly mentioned here were the City of Vukovar and places of special pitet and leadership from the so-called town of Vukovar. third countries. To make it perfectly clear to everyone here, to all our viewers, to the citizens what we're talking about here. We are talking about this, therefore, that we are talking only about citizens and free movement within the EU. The third countries of any of our neighbouring and any further remote destinations cannot legally lead any group in the Republic of Croatia or the general part, or any specific part. So it must be perfectly clear to everyone in that part of both this law and the rules that will follow after this law absolutely nothing changes. As for the subject of the language that has been mentioned here several times today, so I will only point out one more time what I said in the opening part about the language, which is that now, in the applicable law that has been in force since 1.1.2018, we have which is therefore not the subject of the amendment and addition of this bill, it is very important. So we have a mandatory language that says that the language in which the tourist guide services will be provided will be level B2, and the Croatian language will be sufficient to provide tourist guide services. Now, we will repeat once again that all tourist guides coming from the EU and European economic space must therefore, if they want to lead to protected sites, if they want to lead to protected localities, end this course in Croatia in front of Croatian lecturers and respond, pass the exam before the test committee in which the guides are sitting. So in that part, I think we've perfectly regulated the language issue for the special part. And for the general part, so when we talk about a tourist guide coming from an EU country that, for example, follows a group on the bus and tells them what's on the left side of the coast, which is on the right side of the coast, etc. If we have, for example. a tourist guide who comes from France and runs a group from France and in what language would he speak to him and what language would he speak to them? So French logically. That obligation that we have level B2 for providing tourist guide services is the most applied so when we train our guides, when they host and lead groups outside that the language in which the water is at B2 level. So in that part, I think it's perfectly clear that we have absolutely no problem here and that we are in this way maximum protection. I'll do it again. All those who have to take a special exam, and everyone who wants to lead to protected sites must do so in Croatian. If I can pass the exam in Croatian, if I can communicate it both in a letter and in a speech to the examination committee and guides, then I believe that we have absolutely no problem here. We therefore protected the entire industry from safe insolvency, insolvency, because if we had not responded quickly and efficiently here you mentioned today that we had done so in some 15 days since the special circumstances would have had one large part of the tourist agencies that would have ended up in bankruptcy. And you know who would win that whole story? In this whole story, the winner would be our partners, so foreign hotelers or tourist agencies that our agencies work with and that would keep funds that would never return to our agencies. They would retain funds, and they would not have to return them because the agencies in Croatia were blocked or before bankruptcy or ended up in bankruptcy. So that's something that was necessary to do. We did it and we made it so-called. one break in the return of those funds or the possibility of issuing a voucher. And it is very important to emphasize something that has been mentioned by me and my colleagues several times today. So, with communication with the largest professional association of tourist agencies in Croatia, we have official information from them that 50% of these funds have already been returned to clients, so it has already been returned and out of these 50 that remained 30% has approximately accepted some other kind of package of arrangements or has already realised it or will implement it for some other type of service. So in that part, we're talking about a relatively small part of exposure. But even for those exposed, we have provided a single programme of state support for the tourism and sports sector in which the agencies enter. All service providers and hotelers, and entertainment industry, and marinas, and charters, etc. So we've made it possible to get money for liquidity with 100% guarantee for micro, small and medium and 90% guarantee for large entities, and we have a billion and 500 million kuna at our disposal. So these are resources and more than we'll need and enough. And I'm going to remind you in the program to help the economy of HAMAG-BICRO and COVID-19 loans, so still by the formations that we have on the HAMA-BICRO sites there are somewhere slightly less than 600 million kunas that are still available for liquidity as well. So in that sense, we believe that we have maximum protection of our travel agencies. But we have also protected our consumers and consumers, therefore, all our agencies, because with these changes that we are now changing things, we are therefore bringing them back to the ability of these agencies and, of course, the users to get their funds paid to them. So we kept jobs in tourist agencies, which was very important. Don't forget that we are one of the reasons why we had an extraordinary tourist season last year compared to our competitors. Because we've made the right moves, because we've preserved the economy, we've preserved jobs, we've reacted in time with epidemiological measures. We also reacted in time with the opening, with communication, with the procedure of crossing the border so that the result that took place last year was the result of a whole series of thoughtful moves led by the very top of the government and, of course, through all the other ministries involved. Practically half of the government took part in this in one way or another. So it was systematically accessed last year and systematically accessed this year. On the trail of results and tourism policy last year we are also conducting activities in this year. So from the Safe say in Croatia project for which you all know very well, to campaigns prepared, to timely communication with our tourist markets and, of course, because of the presentation of Croatia as a country that is healthy and available. And in this sense, here's another way I'm going to appeal as well as with the beginning of all our citizens, tourist workers, for all of us, it's practically important to us what kind of epidemiological image we're going to have there when we get ahead of the very beginning of that most important and most important part of the tourist season. Well, it is very important and the success of all of us will be as it was last year that the health epidemiological picture is good for us to be able to do another successful tourist year, and I hope that you will all agree with me that this tourist year is very important to us in many ways and that we simply have to do a job that I hope we will do for the sake of the economy, and for the sake of jobs and for all that we still have to do through this transition and through this reform. For the very end, I will also reflect on perhaps a comment or a grudge that we have come here today to listen or perhaps to take too many comments from parliamentary representatives from the HDZ Club, etc. I'll just remind you all together here when you look here we at the club on the right have two former tourism ministers. We have about 4.5 mayors who are tourist cities, people who are from the real sector more or less everyone and who tourism not only understands and knows very well, but tourism has practically lived in one way or this way. And we also have a few colleagues on the left doing this job, a fellow in the middle. And we will listen to your advice and suggestions every time we come here because we believe that we too can learn from you and that we can implement it in our legislation. But, of course, on the trail of everything that is possible and what is on the trail is, in particular, in the light of this law on the grounds of European law violations or the satisfaction of the implementation of the acquis. But not to be ashamed, but even on the contrary, we love to communicate in advance and always something if you look at the entire reform of the tourism system that we have made we have always taken proposals from the Parliament, implemented them. So we'll try and do what we can in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40275	Thank you very much. Stay Secretary of State because there are more replicas. She is the first respected representative, Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40276	As far as accepting the proposal is concerned, it is a standard practice in the Assembly so that it does not by chance turn out that the opposition is capable of quality and constructive work. So I don't think it's your fault that you won't accept opposition proposals, but it's the whole leadership that creates such conditions that it's considered a kind of expression of weakness if proposals are accepted that aren't from their own ranks. But what I want to ask you is not only about the opposition proposal or the suggestion of the ruling ones. It concerns the whole of today’s debate, which contains proposals that have already been in circulation. I won't get into what happened between you and tourist guides or competent associations, but they came out dissatisfied. And now I'm curious why all these suggestions that you've previously known haven't been implemented in the bill before, and yet you realize they're good and you're going to change the bill?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40277	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40278	Dear MPs, I thank you for this question and perhaps the shortest and simplest answer is that, in accordance with European acquis and regulation, we cannot limit, we cannot close the market, but we must implement European directives in our legislation something that has already been implemented in this case for several years and we have come to a situation that needs to be done now. So, although of course we are very active and constructively trying to talk to all stakeholders. So there is something in the sense that is acceptable in which it can be taken as a comment or a proposal, but it must be on the trail of the directive that I have mentioned and in this sense we are trying to do everything not only today but also for a longer period to do so. And that there may be dissatisfaction, given that this directive is the way they are engaged and the way they define it is definitely something that we cannot influence.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40279	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40280	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, therefore, you and in the final presentation have very comprehensively highlighted this good synergy of you and the terrain, you and the tourist guides about how you have done everything and what you will do. So I actually don't get it anymore in the end. You did a great job. They met, arranged, listened to remarks, and eventually we received a bill that was unsatisfactory for everyone. Therefore, the tourist guides to which this applies are dissatisfied. Likewise, HDZ colleagues who are ruling already have the same remarks at all together and say they believe that between the first and second readings these remarks will be adopted and that they will not have to go with the amendments. I listened very carefully, so Mr. Frankovic also announced some amendment for another reading. So what's the problem? So why don't you sit down at the table and make a deal, but that's actually what we do in Parliament? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40281	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40282	Thank you. We've already addressed a large part of it in the opening part, but that's exactly what we do, we sit, we talk to stakeholders and, of course, with parliamentary deputies, and we're going to do everything we can to track down all the thinking of the different, we make the final bill and it's as much to the satisfaction of the majority, and you know that sometimes it's impossible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40283	The next replica is the respected representative Frankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40284	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, what's important is to make changes in the direction we said. So the issue of education is the issue regulated by EU member states on its own, and if we do, we will not have any problems. And there's one more thing I want to point out, so it's not true that the HDZ didn't tell me before the media signs said this wasn't a good direction. In fact, I'm on the parliamentary committee, as you know, being abstentions because I pointed out that there are options for how the law can be improved. There is a need for changes, but there is a possibility of how to improve the law and I am on the parliamentary committee and I said so. And on the parliamentary board, this law did not get the majority of votes needed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40285	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40286	So we have communicated all this together in both the introductory part and the replicas and the debate, and therefore we have made it very clear to the Committee on Tourism, and here I say once again in front of all of you, so we will take all your remarks into account, but in the wake of our obligation to implement European directives in our legislation on what we are obliged to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40287	The next replica of the esteemed Glamuzine MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40288	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Glava, I'm only going to ask you something that I didn't make this one during an earlier debate. Article 75(3) is not now, is not subject to change, but says the tourist guide required when providing the service to be worn in a visible place of the tourist guide card which determines its property. I wonder if this obligation is also passed on to non-Croatian guidebooks, as this may make it easier for inspection services because the state inspectors do not have enough. I don't know how many truths there are, but by asking them to wear a card like they wear, our guides might be able to solve a part of the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40289	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40290	Dear MPs, you're right. Therefore, supervision of the provision of tourist guide services is in the authority of the State Inspectorate and that is something that was also necessary to make those last changes that were made. So, in that transformation from tourist inspectors to state inspectors who can now fully control and monitor the work of service providers, but not only those who are registered but of course those who eventually violate regulations and rules, but here I am saying by all the analysts we have, so we don't have excessive problems here and that is, on the trail of standard. And as for what is written in the law and the obligation, so what is written in the law is the obligation of all service providers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40291	The Republic also has a respected representative, Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40292	Thank you very much. Secretary of State why tourist guides express in the Republic of Croatia dissatisfaction with this law? Can you tell why people who are engaged in tourist activities, i.e. They're tourist guides. Because of what foreign citizens are allowed to deal with in a much simpler way, on this proposal that you have made than our Croatian, Croatian citizens. And that's what's not good, and calling only on the EU directives, and also not protecting our people in tourism is a precedent. It's a Croatian precedent. We have 20% of tourism, I think 20% of GDP, and now we're in this situation that we're going to have this part of the tourist guides that have absolutely no idea. I think what foreign tourist guides will come here in a way that ours will have to go to other countries or how you will come up with it because of some EU directive. We must protect our people in tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40293	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40294	I agree, of course, that we must, but this is any kind of restriction that you know isn't allowed, it's not possible. When we talk about tourism alone, and not to talk about the economy now, it is also mentioned today that you do not see that we have any restrictions on investors who come in to invest and open hotels, catering facilities of any other kind of entertainment or tourist content, etc., but that it is something that is on the internal market normal eating. So, also, Croatian investors can do so in other countries. I suppose this preference of tourist guides and all service providers in Croatia would be that in a certain way the market can be protected, but unfortunately it cannot. In that sense, we have a obligation to implement directives that allow free movement of goods and services.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40295	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Cappellio.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40296	The Honorable Chairman, State Secretary, so today we have gone through all the points and we have seen that in principle, both left and right environments we have agreed on about 3-4 things and practically all the problems we have with tourist guides. And with the agencies, we have seen that we are practically opening up a solution to consumer issues, and on the other hand we have protected agencies. The government has provided a billion-and-a-half kuna to deal with the issue with its guarantees, so agencies. So how I live tourism, not doing tourism, but living it to me today I'm glad to say that tourism has won, and it doesn't matter at all left or right or middle, today we've all agreed together and seen that for tourism it's good to just think this way and that the debates are exactly that way, and it doesn't matter now who said or didn't say in that segment that someone is guilty but this is the victory of tourism itself. So thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40297	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40298	I want to thank you for that comment, so I think everyone might agree that this is essentially one of the advantages of the big and task of tourism. And that tourism always reconciles and that tourism always combines, opens new perspectives and brings the world closer. So here we are, on the trail of results from previous years, following the results of continued growth in the mandate of the Government of Andrej Plenkovic and in the number of arrivals and in the revenue and full reform that we are carrying out on this trail, and I am sure that, in this sense, the merger and convergence of tourism will continue to be helpful and beneficial.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40299	The next replica is the esteemed MP Opačak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40300	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State as you have listed a large part of the question, details, the restrictions will be governed by the regulation. What needs to be taken care of is the fact that the profession that is here is being heard has suffered a major blow to business in 2020, the question is what awaits them in 2021. I particularly want to emphasise and hope that you will take their opinion sufficiently when making the rules.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40301	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40302	I thank the honourable MPs for this question and for this comment, therefore, as mentioned in the opening section of the working group on the making of regulations that define both protected sites and the part relating to education has already begun work. So, you held your first meeting last week. This challenging period is ahead of us to bring these two regulations after the adoption of this law in the Croatian Parliament as soon as possible, so that everyone can adapt as soon as possible to work according to new legal conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40303	And the last replica of Agent Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40304	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A fellow secretary of state, so you said there was still a lot of money left in the fund in HAMAG BICRO and therefore HBOR, which is not used by these covid loans. We said the government secured a billion and 500 million kuna. I would just ask you and the ministry to follow this whole process of getting the money so it doesn't come to the situation that the agencies can't get the funds because the prescribed rules at the banks might sometimes be too rigorous to get that money. This is often the case with our legal entities seeking loans and for this reason is this rest of the money that has not retired, and I think it would be devastating for the infrastructure of tourist communities if every kuna fails to return in time. Because only our competition then wins that battle, not us, although it's good to use it as an anti-advert for our tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40305	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40306	I thank you for that proposal. Well, I'll just mention one more detail, so now in the process of adopting the state aid programme that we have brought, which we have done with the consent of the European Commission, we have made that and perhaps one amendment. So you can see that we, the funds for liquidity in the sector, cannot be released in any other way than through financial institutions. There is no other model, and we have tried to make this program attractive enough on one side and on the other side, or we are just not going to define the highest maximum interest rate on banks just to open up the possibility of them covering that part of the risk group that under some normal circumstances, so beyond that A group that they would never look at differently, and that is defined among other things by interest rate. But what we have ensured is that our citizens still feel direct benefits that all banks have to offer, so the interest rate that is for this ranking client, but which is 0.5 percentage points lower so that they feel the benefits and, of course, with the state guarantee of 100%.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40307	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met. Since it's been a long time now, we're gonna take a break to get windy. I'll see you at 16.15. It's 4:00 p.m. Dear ladies and gentlemen, we are now going to the next point, and that is - The final draft law on amendments to the Law on road transport, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 123. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 16,15 HOURS]] The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172, 204 and 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with Article 206. The Rules of Procedure adopted on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda a proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Tomislav Mihotic, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40310	The basic reasons for the adoption of this law are to comply with Directive 645 of 2018 amending Directive 59 of 2003. The EC on initial qualifications and periodic training of professional drivers, which has been transposed into national legislation through provisions of the current law, and the regulation of a legal basis for co-financing of road transport of passengers as a public service. All professional drivers of freight vehicles and buses must have initial qualifications obtained by training and passing exams or through secondary school education for the profession of drivers. In addition, professional drivers must undergo an additional periodical education of 35 teaching hours or 7 hours or 35 hours after 5 years every year after their initial qualifications. Freight vehicle drivers and bus drivers who have acquired a prescribed education for professional drivers of initial qualification and periodic education shall be subject to the relevant EU marking at 95 in the driver’s licence or a special card shall be issued for the driver proving the qualifications acquired. The Ministry will record the drivers of freight vehicles and buses that have acquired initial qualifications and periodic education in Croatia, and will exchange these data with the competent authorities of other Member States. The provisions of Directive 645 of the 2018 EC, with the exception of Directive 59 of 2003. The EC also amends Directive 126 of 2006. The EC on driving licences, and these provisions have already been transposed into Croatian national legislation through the latest amendments to the Road Safety Act. This law creates a legal basis for co-financing of passenger road transport as a public service. Public service will be financed from the sale of train tickets and the budget of units of regional (regional) self-government or the city of Zagreb. Public service in the road transport of passengers can be co-financed by the funds of units of local self-government and the state budget. The most co-financing amounts as well as the criteria and criteria on which public services will be co-financed in road transport from the state budget will be established by the Government Regulation. This law includes transport and financing of certain categories of island population entitled to preferential road transport under the Island Law takes over the Ministry of Transport. The provisions of this Act repeal the obligation to hold a passport in the inner carriage of passengers and the obligation to issue a licence for undertakings that carry goods vehicles above 12 tonnes only carry transport for their own purposes. This frees entrepreneurs from unnecessary administrative procedures. Since public road transport of passengers to the Republic of Croatia is still mainly on a commercial basis to co-finance only certain categories of service users, transport of primary and secondary schools, transport of island populations, transport of disabled persons and the like has led to the abolition of bus lines in certain areas, especially those underpopulated, so that citizens living in these areas do not have any possibility of using public transport or do not have the appropriate number of bus lines they would need, i.e. To enable normal life and to meet the basic needs of life. The situation is currently further difficult due to the pandemic and the measures taken to prevent the spread of the infection, so it is expected that due to the inequitableness of carrying out the transport, the abolition of the lines will continue. It was therefore necessary to provide as soon as possible for the co-financing of public road transport and the conclusion of a public service contract in the road transport of passengers between the units of the regional self-government and the carrier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40311	Thank you very much. We've got more replicas. He is the first respected representative of Sinisha Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40312	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A few methodological questions I actually have. So, as I see in the law, you didn't exactly respect Regulation No 137/2007, so I'm going to say, under quotes, that the Agency's opinion on the protection of competition is negative. So, I'm afraid that you'll transfer future disputes to the authorities of regional self-government, to the county, therefore, as far as retaining an existing network of public liner transport in the area of the county. You know how it's done, in principle, that the lines they drive in high school just shifts, reduces the net by 20%. And second of all, you didn't provide PSO funds. We're talking about a classic PSO here. So, you only commit to the county, and the state and units of local administration and self-government if they can. If we have one equal approach to all of Croatia and if the state provides for a specific subsidy for Jadrolinija HZPP, then it was fair to provide for bus carriers as well because, in addition to Zagreb and large cities, most of your people are unfortunately dependent on bus transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40313	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40314	Some counties are forming networks and we hope to get into this system as soon as possible. Otherwise, the total cost assessment i.e. The entire public service for county liner transport is based on our account 684 million kuna. Of which, 107 million kuna should be secured from the state budget, from the sale of tickets 120, from the budget of units of local and regional self-government based on the current assumptions of 135 million kuna and would transfer these funds to the Ministry of Science and Education for saying that it is automatically transferred to lines where the transportation of secondary travellers is carried out and the island still has 30 million kuna. So with that whole amount, you would then establish a system.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40315	Time. Thank you. The next replica is Honored Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40316	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here, subsidizing non-resistance lines, of course, we all have to say hello. However, it is not because of Covid, but those areas have long been forgotten about organised lines, let alone the subsidized lines. And I know that you have read many directives now and will mostly use it now in pre-election time. However, the fact is that where we subsidize the lines that carriers drive buses, transport buses 40 years old, 50, 60 as Mate... Transport Makarska or Transport Sinj works. I speak by the name and last name Mate Junovic transports children on buses which every month or every week at least one burns in the fire. Only by the ability of the driver these children are alive. When something pays for the state then it should be guaranteed by the deadline and age of years. If you could do that to the cab service, you could take a bus ride.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40317	Thank you. The reply to the replica is a respected secretary of state. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40318	The question of the age of the bus of matter is which will be regulated by the regulation. So we appreciate what you said. We'll look at it and define it through the rulebook.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40319	Next replica, the respected representative of Ante Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40320	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Mr. Mihotic. In this bill, we are also changing the way in which the county line transport is financed. So my question goes in the direction of these smaller environments maybe a little more isolated. Here's an example of the town of Vrlika that often has a problem with someone getting a concession on a particular line. Or, for example, in the winter months when it is invaluable to him simply stop driving that line and that city or that municipality remains isolated and there is no mechanism to transfer that line to someone else. I wonder if this law solves such a problem. Will this Law solve the problem of the linkage of less populated places especially in Dalmatia, where we have certain lines, certain carriers that may not be so profitable and profitable and may not be so interesting to them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40321	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40322	And this question regulates the rule after the law... It was. [[You don't understand.]] So far, the commercial-based vehicle has left the Vrlika area without a quality connection. Through this and through the network set up by the county, funds would also be provided for such lines.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40323	We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40324	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. A fellow State Secretary broke Rules of Procedure of Article 238, because he simply shouldn't have come here if he would define everything by regulation and if they would be well anointed by Mate Jujnović. It's not funny. Buses up, 40 years old. The subsidized lines paid for by the city, the state and the parents and the county are a threat to the people I was talking about both to you and to the minister. But you, Mr. Secretary of State, are either well-oiled so shut up or allow it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40325	Time Thank you very much. [[And it's not funny. Kids up in the buses.]] Dear Mr. Bully and you and I know it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. At the end of the line, Mr. Secretary of State can't hurt the Rules of Procedure. But there's no connection. [[/Intruder Mihotić: I've answered this already. It's pointless to answer.]] Excuse me, please. You can't speak without my word. Excuse me. Mr. Bull, I must give you a warning. Thank you very much. Let's go to the next line. Mrs. Ljubica Maksimchuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40326	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The Honorable State Secretary of the Road Transport Act 2018 means... A reform of the county liner transport has been set out by switching from a licence system to a transport system as an economic public service pursuant to Regulation 1370/2007. [[You don't understand.]] Countys are tasked with forming a new network in their area. Do you have any information as to where it came from in the construction of a new network for the operation of county liner transport?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40327	Here's the answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40328	We have knowledge that the county prepares networks in its area and I speak stimulant to them are the means that the state will provide and will provide for those counties that have a preparatory network.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40329	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Romana Nikolic. Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40330	Thank you, Vice President. This amendment and the addition of the law solves the partial problem of the carrier. The change will introduce a public service and I wonder if it will live until the local elections or if it's just buying time. The second question, in which period of time the adoption of a regulation is considered and which will be its content, because I fear that the regulation will contain the abolition of the rights acquired by the carrier, thereby directly jeopardising the existence of our carriers already on their knees because of this pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40331	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40332	Well, the regulation will be made immediately, and I hope it all comes to life before the local elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40333	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Tulio Demetlika. Here you go, Mr. Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40334	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. With this proposal to amend and supplement the Road Transport Act, you said that we are in line with the European Directive of 2018. I repeat 2018. Today we're 2021. I'm asking why it's been waiting so long and now the neck to the nose under emergency, under emergency procedure, we need to pass the law. The second question is, when it comes to amending and supplementing this law, why you did not include proposals and remarks from interested businessmen specifically bus operators, car carriers and taxi drivers as well as Croatian craftsmen who made proposals for amendments to this law. Because you could simply solve one step both ways, because we support this part regarding the equalisation and qualification of drivers for all at the level of all EU countries and this co-financing is just missing for county liner co-financing from the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40335	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40336	Well, we've had intense conversations with everyone mentioned on your side. For example, we also met the taxi passengers in a certain number of requests they had made. For example, taxi drivers with more than 5 years of experience do not have to take exams again. Also, local self-government units keep records of taxi services. And also with the transport chambers we had with both economic and professional contacts and consent, and they finally expressed satisfaction with the good part of what was included inside.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40337	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Gary Cappelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40338	Dear Chairman, Secretary of State I'm glad that the issue has been raised and that as soon as possible this law is passed for the very reason that we know that bus lines have been invaluable for a number of years. [[Please, just fix the microphone, sir. There's a microphone to you. Thank you.]] However, I will say how it works, and that is why it is in my interest to vote as soon as possible and to start co-financing. For example, on the island, in Losinj you have a bus leaving in the morning at 4.45 a single line towards Rijeka, at 17.00 p.m. it comes back and it comes in one direction 155 kuna. People want to go to the catamaran that leaves at 6:00 in the morning. And now every second, third day because of the storm or the south doesn't go. So you lost the first bus you didn't go because it was more expensive. The second catamaran isn't going. So you can't get to the river that day if you have anything, so please get rid of this question as soon as possible, co-financed. That way it's going to be not one but 10 lines.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40339	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40340	We're sure they will and will follow the regulation and that means they'll be provided as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40341	Short and clear. Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Anka Dark-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40342	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Secretary of State. So, the topic of sustainable development is an eternal topic in the Republic of Croatia. Sustainable development means that everyone has approximately similar opportunities. When it comes to our children, whether they go to primary school or high school means they have the opportunity to really get quality education. Not everyone's that way. Somewhere it's really about the transport to school. We have a chance to see kids walking in the media, so we have a bus, so we don't have a bus, so I'll have a chance, so I won't have a chance. For a country like Croatia is a major challenge. The challenge is also for units of local self-government and for units of regional self-government for the simple reason that we are aware that, first of all, for three or four students, you must enable a line. Second of all, that line needs to be financed. I'm curious to know what the key moment was when the government recognized that it was a problem and decided to make a special decision. It shall be possible to establish a preferential price. [[Intruder Škoro: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40343	Thank you. Time. Replication response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40344	Well, apparently, the elimination of lines and the inability to communicate, i.e. allows and children among other things to be able to access schools in a normal way to teach.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40345	Thank you very much. Next replica, respected representative Daniel Spajic. Here you go, Mr. Spijic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40346	Thank you, Vice President. Secretary of State, please tell me what you have done about the occasional transport of passengers to the Republic of Croatia because this branch is preceding the collapse and what is the average age of the cargo programme of the vehicle as regards the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40347	Replication response, here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40348	As regards the occasional transport of passengers, the law provides for the removal of passports that the carrier had to have in the vehicle when carrying out the occasional transport of passengers in internal road transport. They put this as a major obstacle and inability to provide insurance, which means for short lines of especially tourist that lasts ten, fifteen minutes. They were obliged to fill out passports, list passengers as much longer as the length of transport itself. Thus, they went to the maximum level of contact and the need was lifted. And among other things, the government's pay measures are included, and this should be addressed at this time. [[Intruder Škoro: I left you an average age.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40349	Thank you. You haven't been able to answer everything this time. You'll do it next time. The next replica is Boška Ban Vlahek's respected representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40350	Dear Secretary of State, the government has sent amendments to this law in an urgent parliamentary procedure that will provide funds for co-financing of public road transport for the maintenance of bus lines that are becoming less and less profitable especially in less populated areas and are forced to abolish an increasing number of lines. You're going to co-finance to keep the lines out of places where the growing number of people live. I certainly welcome this co-financing, but who is responsible for the growing number of people? It's you who will co-finance this. So we suggest that you focus on keeping people, not just on symbolizing the problem of them leaving.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40351	The reply to the replica, please choose the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40352	Each move, including these measures, the government is going in that direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40353	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Anita Pocrnic Radosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40354	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, this bill creates a legal basis for co-financing public road transport as a public service which will apply to all categories of population as far as I can see. I come from Lika-Senj County where there is a long problem of a small number of bus lines with a high price of bus tickets since it is commercial transport and it is logical that ticket prices are high. This is about a county with a small number of residents living in scattered villages and settlements in a large area. Therefore, certain places are not at all related to public transport because they are as such invaluable. The residents are often unable to achieve some basic things such as coming to work, the doctor, etc. Will this enable residents to meet the basic needs of life related to transport?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40355	Thank you. Here's the answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40356	These are precisely the measures that make it possible. Thus, by introducing the i.e. The implementation of these measures will achieve the objectives you are talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40357	Thank you very much. You're free now. You're welcome to the seat of a respected secretary of state. Before continuing the debate, I am obliged to ask the representatives of the committee's rapporteurs if they would take a word on this point? If not, I'm opening up a debate. The first one, on behalf of the Advocacy Lists' Club, will be spoken by Honorable Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40358	Thank you very much. Here if they have the possibility of citizens mostly rural forgotten areas listen they must know that it is pre-election time and that the regulations, the directives that are prescribed in this law, are simply this pre-election programme that we repeat as a mantra every 4 years, and here I will now mainly quote this part of the subsidized transport on non-performing lines because policies have led to these lines not being profitable, because you have evicted 2/3 of Croatian prominent state secretaries and now, of course, it needs to be co-financed all of this together. Of course you have to co-finance this on Velva, for example. You know in my neighborhood where it is, because there's no one here. Why isn't anybody here? Because you built bus waiting rooms, and there's no bus. You know why there's no bus? Because there aren't enough people, but individuals who in the beautiful parts of our Svilia, our Zagor, our Podinar, the Chachi's Doc, if you know it, you know you're well down from my neighborhood and you know what the problem is. The problem is the policies that have emigrated those areas and now, before the 2006 or Directive elections, the two months have now come to mind. You remembered those directives and now you're implementing them. To be clear, this is where it's mentioned in this article 22, it seems to me to be subsidizing school transport. Yes, the city, the county, the state, the ministry subsidize school transport. But you always mention the rules. The regulation of the quality of transport service is very important because examples in Sinj bus owners Mate Jujnović Transport Makarska or Transport Sinj because it destroyed the car transport Sinj illegally know that well. I've filed criminal charges, but he's also well bribed the county that determines, and the state. He transports our children by buses in the early 40s, and he neatly receives money from both local self-government, both from the state and from the county. My parents used to pay, and now it's been taken over by local self-government. These are the problems with the old buses, and you've easily limited taxis because of their interest. No Croatian for 5 years that taxi can be the oldest and buses unlimited. And it happens, I was just saying that to the Minister, I kept the press minister, Butkovic, and he was supposed to be here. He knows how to present and deceive the public. He does it neatly. He is one of the best in this matter, but now that he is in the mercy of Minister Plenkovic, I will not attack him, Prime Minister Plenkovic, so that I do not turn out to be smoking in Plenkovic's horn. But this is a serious question. The rural areas are the obligations of the Croatian state regardless of the directives. It was a long time ago to subsidize transport. And not just that on the non-erable lines. Either in the Imot region, so my colleague Kujundzic or in my Sinjska province, or Vrgoraška or irrelevant, or in Zagora, the whole part. It's an obligation of the state. Well, the state is obliged to subsidize. Also said a colleague here, the former minister said from the SDP, says why would the county. Well, the county is a problem. They need to be abolished as soon as possible. The sooner the better. You were also an employee of the county. They have no purpose, no purpose, but here's what happens if someone loses the election so they can get caught by a captain in these offices. That's so pointless. That's why we don't have in the area of Cetinsko end of my Sinj heart Zagor, we don't have in the villages that are close to Split, it's 30 kilometers from Split we don't have bus lines because of course Mate Junovic doesn't want to transport, so we need to subsidize him with what I agree with. But if we're subsidizing you, if you've got all the money you've got, for nothing, if you've allowed him to get your policies free Mate Vujnović, then he can't afford the money paid to me by the county, by the state. taxpayers can't buy hotels in Makarska and take a bager and still bury the coast on the ground. Getting what he has, I mean it's amazing and not investing in buses but buses are so old, it bothers me. We're discussing the law before the two-month election to send the message of the people you've moved to Ireland, 6% of GDP is from a tip from abroad, and you say that's not a topic. What's not the subject? What's wrong with you? What's the topic tell me? We'll do it with a rule book. This law that you're bringing here you've brought frames, but here Oleg Butkovic is going to lipo with Mato Jujnović, I don't know how much he gets, it might be that he's a 10 percent mystery when you put up with the crime of Mate Junovic and what he's doing in my area of Sinj and Dalmatia. Whose player is he? Is he your campaign chief? Well, in Makarska what it does, I mean it, it's, hey, this is so my people's senses, tragically, if it wasn't sad, it would have been meaningful. The Secretary of State tells me as a parliamentary representative that it doesn't matter the age of the bus to be transported by the subsidized, what the state pays or anyone else, and you've limited the taxis to 5 years old, and here where 50 kids on the bus can be a 50-year-old bus. and every week one burns on the road either Split to Sinj or from Sinj to Velov, to Velov, and there is no bus, did you spend what the world has to do with these policies, because of 10%, 10% of me, 10 to you, and how will we survive? They were fed up with the 2006 directive. The EU's subsidisation is normal. Not only that, colleagues and colleagues, every year I make an amendment to subsidizing lines and every year, these inert, you're neatly refusing. And for that reason, even the Rules of Procedure have passed that at the same time we have no amendments to the budget, but that we have special amendments, especially the vote that the people do not hear that shame. If something is paid by taxpayers, then it has to be the highest quality. I'm the first one to subsidize non-erable lines and do so urgently, but while you solve this, you've now given this law and it will be settled by election, again in four years. Before the local elections, it'll be the same until we block the road down at the entrance in, in, on the highway. Is this your mantra and this delusion of yours, so I can't believe what the light did to you, you're also my downside from Dalmatia what made the light of you here. You are often in Sinj, so you know what problems we have in Zagora, so in Slavonia, so is Zagorje, so is Gorski kotar, so is in Lica, colleagues in Lica, deceive the public now before the 2006 elections, you have had enough of the EU Directive, and Mate Jujnović is all subsidising money, carrying children, ej transporting dicu. So he's a carrier, carrying a dick, it's safe money, on buses 50 years old. and older, I think the safety of children has been compromised. I'm telling you this, I'm telling the Minister, I've kept the press, I've been down with people, with parents who are afraid of sending their children to school, afraid to send their children to school from the island to Sinj from I don't know from, from Velva to Sinj and they remembered now two months before the election here we are, remembered after 15-20. that the triba subsidize where we have wasted this people with these policies. Worse than the Turks you have policies worse because your effects, your policies are worse than the Turks when they attacked Sinj, when we freed him to this day, means until '91, all the occupiers, all the regimes that were. There are fewer inhabitants in these areas now than there were then, fascists, communists, Nazis, I don't know who he was, worse and you two months before the election, so we'll give you everything, you'll give everything. And even more to the MP, he says, it's not matter that we're going to rule it out, from this law, we're going to figure out how old the bus is going to be, as old as this, as much as it is. And Mate Jujnovic has a good conjecture, but he's got a Mate, he's got a good one, a cousin without a kuna. He hired former ministers, colleagues, yes, yes. He hired a brother, he tore up workers who worked 40 years. He brought them to a beggar's stick, and now he's receiving subsidies and transporting our dick, our dick, subsidized in this law, it says so. Well, it doesn't say the age of the bus anywhere, but they're going to rule it out. And to... Imagine how absurd it is for the people who listen to this, the taxis have allowed it to be over 5 years old, the buses can be old before I know II. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] World War I, there are literally those. What do you do that for, that's what I'm curious about? What makes you take these literally criminals? [[Intruder: Time]] I don't have any softer sentences.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40359	Thank you very much. Next on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the honourable representative Daniel Spajic will speak, please welcome Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40360	Honorable chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected secretary of state with associates. Now I'm going to read you something that's so very boring, but I'm going to say later why and what the law is, this comment on the proposed amendment to road transport laws. The Croatian Road Transporters Association also took part in public consultation on the proposed amendments to the law and stressed that this profession insists on a concrete revision of the complete law and the adoption of a new Road Transport Act. Since the amendments which have been subject to public debate, road carriers certainly support changes that go in favour of facilitating the business of bus operators. However, two categories of changes are unacceptable. The first amendment repealing the restriction on the carrying out of goods for its own use by cargo vehicles, the maximum permissible mass of up to 12 tonnes and repealing the obligation to issue a freight licence for its own use to vehicles of a maximum permissible mass exceeding 12 tonnes. Since this was offered an explanation for eradicating these provisions that created unforeseeable costs and problems in the business itself, we appeal to clarify the reason why the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure provided a report on the translation of public consultation in 2017. on the draft road transport law draft explained its own proposal to introduce a transport licence for its own purposes to vehicles of a maximum mass exceeding 12 tonnes, and in the words proposed by the legislator wants to reduce the abuse of transport for its own needs and to improve the system of public freight transport. In the public consultation report, the ministry states that according to Regulations 1071/2009 and 1072/2009 for carrying out transport for its own use, licences are not required regardless of the maximum permissible mass of the vehicle. However, in Art. 1st century 5. Regulation (EU) No 1072/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council on common rules for access to the international road transport market of goods shall be read as follows: I quote "Regulation No 6 clearly states that provision No 5 does not affect the conditions under which a Member State allows its citizens to carry out the activities referred to in that paragraph", so that Member States can lay down stricter conditions for carrying out such an activity, and therefore there is no obstacle to European regulations for the regulation of stricter conditions, so that the license for the carriage of vehicles of the maximum permissible mass above 12 tonnes. We appeal to keep the restrictions so far because otherwise, the possibility of unfair competition will be reopened. Under two, we express dissatisfaction and the proposed amendment according to which the rule of law will apply. Article 10(4) of the Law to prescribe, among other things, only the highest price of passing exams to obtain the initial qualification of drivers. It's still the law of 2018. the following rules on the initial periodical education of drivers introduced a disturbance on the market when training centres and auto-schools raised the service price by 100%. Following this, a public consultation procedure on the amendment of this Regulation has been initiated and a minimum cost of periodic education has been proposed, however, this proposal for a Regulation in a vacuum since the publication of the report on 13 January 2020. We're afraid of new riots and new problems on the market. In addition, we must express our regret for not accepting the proposal for a full revision of the amendments to the Road Transport Act because this was an ideal time to clarify the issues on hold. From the determination and emphasis of the responsibilities of all parties involved in the implementation of the transport process for the transport of vehicles to date confirmed malversions with licences for foreign carriers to enhance the financial responsibility of the agencies and to regulate the matter of the transport contract with a detailed specific regulation. Finally, carriers, ownership transport companies are appealing to respect the need to vaccinate professional drivers where carriers are willing to settle the costs of the vaccine themselves. Looking at the development of the situation in the world, it is evident that it is a matter of moment when only vaccinated persons will be able to cross the border into a circle of factories. You've done nothing so far, and you've been told that for six months. Are you aware that we depend on importing everything? No, you're not. You're not aware. We import means we absolutely depend on importing everything. To us that this passport is to be introduced, and that we do not have vaccinated drivers means two things to us, one is to stay hungry, thirsty, naked and bare, and the other is that foreign companies will take over the transport then we will have a complete road transport crash in Croatia. 2009 You've got guidance on what this law should look like, 11 years you haven't done anything, 11 years. Now you have a 45-page law, you have a contribution to 180 pages is the whole law, so 187 exactly I mean, so it takes you 11 years to make a law on 187 pages that's no good, nothing, zero. The occasional transport of passengers to the secretary of state, you're talking about some kind of passport, I think you know what the real problem is, the occasional transportation of passengers, these are the people who bought buses that cost over 150,000 euros, have a war of lysing at 30, 40,000 kuna per month they have nothing to do because the licking houses don't meet them. And you make this ridiculous law to you 11 years in the ministry you need to pass a law on 180 pages that isn't worth anything. Well, that's a shame, so what you've been doing in Croatia for the last 20 years is an economic genocide over your own people, so nobody in the world does. Well, I'm ashamed to read this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40361	Thank you very much. Mr Pero Ćosic will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40362	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the HS, the esteemed secretary of state with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. This proposal creates a legal basis for co-financing of passenger road transport as a public service. That is how the proposer also stressed in the opening statement, one of the main reasons why this bill was referred to in the emergency procedure. Perhaps we should have discussed this law in two readings, but given the importance of its hasty implementation, we will support its adoption. We know that the transport of passengers on bus lines has been less and less profitable for years, especially in less populated areas, so here are the bus carriers being forced to lift an increasing number of lines. Such a situation is not sustainable for the future of these areas because citizens' mobility is a prerequisite for the economic development of each area and contributes to the overall quality of life. Today, many of our citizens in certain areas, especially in those less developed, do not have the possibility to use public road transport or do not have an adequate number of lines, and their daily lives are difficult. Today, Croatia faces the challenge of mobility, and in this respect, as regards the social inclusion of our citizens, transport challenges are also social challenges because they are related to ageing, poor populations, increasing migration, and due to an unfavourable geographical situation in the future, these problems can only increase further. The residents who stay longer in the isolated area eventually decide to leave it, of course that this changes the demographic picture of Croatia. Therefore, sustainable mobility in rural areas through transport policy is an important factor and is one of the fundamental rights of all our citizens. On the one hand, our citizens in these parts are isolated, and on the other hand we have bus carriers who are also in big problems, depending on economic activity, and at these moments it is drastically reduced, the situation is, of course, even more difficult because of the pandemic and measures being taken to prevent the spread of infections which, among other things, limit the number of passengers on buses to 40% of the bus capacity. For all these reasons, we must expect that the abolition of the lines will continue, and this will lead to students, students, as well as all other citizens not being able to travel by public transport. Croatian line carriers have long warned us that because of the pandemic, but also because of leaving less populated areas, they are facing major financial problems. Here is why today we need to enable the survival of liners in a way that provides them with sufficient resources through co-financing of public road transport in order to maintain bus lines. It is necessary to make it easier to conclude a transport contract between the county and the carrier as quickly as possible. So far, public road transport has largely taken place on a commercial basis, co-financing of only certain categories of users, as we have heard the transport of primary and secondary school students, the transport of persons with disabilities, the island population, and as fewer passengers under that model, co-financing of lines has slowly disappeared, fewer of those who pay their own tickets, the cost of passengers is growing, and the price of tickets for the remaining passengers is increasing, which, of course, leads to the abolition or reduction of bus lines. The proposed law requires the urgency of adoption because we need our citizens to guarantee the stability of public transport, especially in these conditions of the pandemic and earthquake, mobility provides equal economic and social opportunities, but also access to other elements of quality life, which are fundamental investments in the future. It should therefore be possible to provide means to co-finance public road transport and to conclude public service contracts in the road transport of passengers between units of regional self-government and operators. This bill creates a legal basis for financing public services in road transport. Public service in the road transport of passengers can be co-financed as it stands in this law to units of local self-government, but also from the state budget. The maximum amount of co-financing, as well as the criteria and criteria for the foundations to be co-financed from the state budget, will be determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Government will adopt a regulation regulating the procedure for the implementation of the Treaty on Public Services, the way in which State aid is calculated and intensities and other actions preceding the conclusion of the contract, payments from the state budget, and monitoring the execution of the Public Service Treaty. In many other countries, Europe and the EU have been working for many years to improve transport services in less developed areas, where this is not cost-effective and there is a need for co-financing, because this achieves a longer-term type of well-being, such as development and quality of life through better working opportunities and education. In fact, we can say that the costs of depriving subsidies would be far greater because we would have long-term economic, social, educational, cultural and all kinds of other consequences. In order to avoid excessive differences in the mobility of urban and rural areas, and to achieve a certain degree of sustainable mobility, regional development needs to be achieved. Furthermore, this proposal for a law is in line with the amended Initial Qualifications and Periodic Training Directive of Professional Bus and Freight Vehicle Drivers. The deadline for submitting the provisions has expired already on 20 May 2020, to transpose the provisions into the law of 20 May 2020, and now it is high time for us to transpose it and install it into this law. All professional drivers of freight vehicles and buses shall have initial qualifications obtained by training and passing exams or through secondary education for the profession of drivers, and, in addition, professional drivers shall be required every 5 years after their initial qualifications have been obtained. to pass an additional periodical education of 35 teaching hours, and to the drivers of freight vehicles and buses who have acquired the prescribed training for professional drivers means both initial and this periodical registration of the relevant marking in the driver's license and then to issue a special certificate proving the qualifications acquired. Among other things, this proposal for a law on the obligation to pass an examination of the professional competence of a car taxi carrier is freed from persons who have carried out that activity under previously applicable regulations, so they do not have to re-legate professional training. The obligation to hold a passport in the domestic transport of passengers is also lifted and the obligation to issue a licence to carry out the transport of goods for the own needs of vehicles above 12 tonnes, which is certainly a good relief in the business of entrepreneurs. And here, in the end, I would point out that the HDZ Club will accept the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40363	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, the debate will be held by a respected representative of Anka Mrak Taritaš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40364	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Transport Act in Road Transport, etc. The first and second readings or the final proposal and then the P.Z. writes there, that means harmonising with EU directives. In the life of all of us we have seen during a certain time that there is some fashion, so in the arrangement of the interior we have seen that there is fashion all of a sudden it was all in gold, in the tree, and then it was in some kind of silver, as well as in the fashion that we use one season is wearing green, one purple, one red, one black somehow and dark blue is eternal, and in the season of this Assembly there is something that characterizes the laws that come before us. First and foremost, all the laws are P.Z., which means we are in line with EU directives and then we are installing those directives, and nobody tells us that we have to rewrite all directives from word to word, we need to analyse them and apply what is acceptable to us, but this is more convenient, and then we have pilots, and then we change them again, supplement them. There's something else that started in the former term, and in this one it's continued, when we don't know how to solve the problem or when we don't want to solve the problem, then we say it's going to solve the rule or it's going to solve the regulation. So, I absolutely think that the laws don't need to solve everything, I absolutely think that part of that technical regulations or classes should be done through a certain regulation or through a regulation, but if there are too many of them, it points to two things, one thing that at the time you passed the law you didn't know the final solution because if you're doing it seriously and responsibly then parallel to some new law or amendment should be in preparation and regulation and the rule that you have exactly the picture or the other thing where you want to avoid HS. You want to avoid anyone saying in HS, but why is it like this or why, you know, the rulebook brings it very well, the regulation brings the government, you do that formal public debate which time, and which time you don't do it. It is simply not a good fashion, it just means that what characterises Croatia, and that is a long complicated legislation we have gone on. Not only will you have complicated in your portfolio, so you will not know for yourself when it is harmonised by different resolutions legislation will be an impossible mission. For years, we have had a problem, and for years we have had a problem that the marinas categorized in the Ministry of Tourism with number of anchors, at the Ministry of Transport in a different way, and the ministry that was responsible for spatial planning in the marina's spatial plans was marked in a third way, so when the concession had to be given, the problem had already arisen without me saying any further. This will only deepen the problems and we simply won't be able to solve them. You will have a problem in your own portfolio, as has the Ministry of Regional Development, which has passed the Law on Islands, which they do not agree with any other two laws, so we had in the first reading where we agree. My question to you secretary of state was, of course, sarcastic. I said, "What was the key moment when you recognized we had a problem transporting students?" The key moment is always convenient ahead of some elections, this time ahead of local elections. Let us shed light on this and tell the real truth, Croatia has a very unusual shape, there are 4 million of us, and only in the 9th month if the conditions with the crown are such that we start the census, we will not start in the 9th place in February, but we will know in March how many of us there really are. We all trust in sustainable development and there is no one here who would not like to have a child, I will now only talk about children in primary and secondary schools that have the same conditions no matter where they live that they can attend their school as well as a child who I will not say in the centre of Zagreb, I have used this before because those who are from the centre of Zagreb can no longer go to their schools if they are damaged in an earthquake so I will not refer to it, but let's say the child who lives in New Zagreb comes to his school on foot, even coming in a way that doesn't have to pass any roads. And that is, among other things, how we invest in children's sustainable development. Of course, there's no way that some kids are even going to elementary school, and even in high school if their parents can't take it, if there's no subsidizing public transport, there's no way, especially when they're still in primary school, they're going to leave somehow, but in high school they're not going to go, and we have to be aware of that. And if we really want to make it possible for our children, at least as many conditions as possible, I think that only all children in Croatia have the same cell phones, and all of these have different conditions and they grow up under different conditions and if we talk about sustainable development and we are talking about the need to subsidise public transport. But let's talk a little bit about reality, we had last week talked about alternative energy sources, so we talked about energy efficiency, and there was a car in public transport that had to go either electric cars or already to some other sources and everything else, when you came a little bit in reality good that some kids didn't choke on the CO2 in the car that they were driving in, that's our reality. I will always support it, regardless of whether or not the paper suffers, and in reality we do not have to do any steps, even when we are aware that we are borderlinely tied to a directive I think we should go there and sit down, so we have a commissar who is in charge of this area so say, Croatia has the advantage of being partly Mediterranean, partly continental country, but sometimes your advantages and problem and really a lot of people have gone away, we have a problem and we need to solve this problem. But it's interesting that by ruling, if HDZ remembers the problem right before the elections and then it's no longer an important directive, it doesn't matter what the law says anymore, it doesn't matter that we go in two readings anymore. It is important to make a provision and I will read it I have just so much time, it says: "The government of the Republic of Croatia can, by special decision, determine the preferential price for the transport of regular high school students and the criteria and criteria on the basis of which the right to finance or co-finance inter-zupanian transportation of regular high school students from the state budget from the ministry's position," it doesn't even matter if there is money in that ministry position, we will redistribute and it will be. The only thing that matters is that on Friday's vote, the only thing that matters is that we vote on Friday and then, right away, that decision will not be any problems unlike anyone else that will last and we will immediately use this special decision and we know exactly who will meet the criteria and criteria. We can go to the website a little bit now and see where some HDZ mayors or mayors are, so they're getting some air-conditioning that's going to make it happen. So, I really don't have a problem, and I think it should be solved, I really wish that we had a regulation that allows every child in Croatia no matter where he lives that he can come that he doesn't have to go to school on foot or wait, so I'd really like to take care of it so that it's those little vans or little cars that are on the electric drive or something else that they're going to be quality and on time. I don't have any problem that we really co-finance from the budget, I don't have a problem with the minister going three times to Brussels and explaining why he's with us because if we don't all know we can't all endure everything, we're going to have problems at all with the financial opportunities of individual local and regional self-governments. But don't make us do people who don't understand anything, don't do people from us, I even wanted to use an ugly word, so I'm still gonna stick to this, we all know why you're doing this, but if you do it, then at least give it to everyone to take advantage of it. Don't make everyone that's closer to the altar work, and we know who's closer to the altar has been and insisting on all this, this isn't a problem since yesterday this problem has been a long time. Nothing is the crown of that problem now put on the light stage, it's just our problems that we have more clearly articulated and showed the problems we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40365	Thank you. On behalf of SDP's Club of Representatives, the next member of parliament, Marina Opačak Bilic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40366	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the HS, distinguished state secretaries with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The amendments to the Road Transport Act regulates an important society, an economic and social issue, which is the maintenance of public road road county transport, which is in the important interest of the entire social community and the Republic of Croatia because it protects, in a good part, areas that are less populated, more precisely demographically devastation and this form of public transport, i.e. the public service as such indicates in significant terms the quality of life in a given local space. What I want to point out today is a few solutions that we believe will have positive effects because we now have the reasons for the proposed changes that contain exclusively the content of certain norms, but not the clarification of their impact and how they are applied, making it further difficult to apply the rules uniformly. That SDP club holds an important additional and more detailed regulation of the issue of public service contracts for county transport. Our point is that we believe that there is not enough time or space left for our carriers to adapt to the changes, while the ministry that has had time has not spent quality preparation. The implementation of co-financing of non-performing lines as such is accepted, but it takes time to adapt and prepare the same time, financial means to implement the law, a transitional period is needed to prepare as a country a quality course for public tenders before which line networks, passenger networks, record state, elaborated models, ultimately a request for nostrification to the European Commission request a year in advance, and this is one significant period in order to welcome co-financing through public tenders. We all know that these carriers are extremely affected by the covid crisis, and for a year and a half, they have been waiting by law for certain public service contracts to be concluded to carry out a county liner transport that would ensure the transparency and sustainability of this business in rural areas just as it guarantees contracts that are already owned by city carriers, HZ Passenger transport, Jadrolinija and Croatia airlines. While they, on the other hand, have been waiting a year and a half for the contract to be implemented and are calling for the signing of those contracts so that they can plan the future of their business. Today, they are in a position to maintain non-performing lines and cannot have further investments and business plans because they do not know under what conditions they will operate. They simply found themselves in an interspace. It is difficult to explain why the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, which were obliged to implement the contracts, had an obligation to sign contracts between the county and the carrier by 30 November 2019, the obligation was not yet realised. So no contract has been signed to this day. In addition, it is now announced that contracts will be accessed through a public tender which seriously challenges the survival of companies currently engaged in this process and which have not left time to adapt to the new system provided by all other EU Member States for their carriers. The Republic of Croatia has had time to comply with the Regulation since its entry into the EU in 2013, until 2019. Why we haven't already done that, it's hard to explain, and that's how we actually get quality prepared public tenders. In this case, we propose to take advantage of the possibility offered by Regulation 1370, which gives us the possibility of a direct conclusion of the contract, and that as soon as possible, and to start with the public service contracts as soon as possible because I believe that it is in everyone's interest that our carriers are competitive and that they remain to work. This issue should also be seen through the social component, in particular in the segment of the protection of businesses and employees doing this job, as well as in the segment of people living in rural areas, whose maintenance of transport lines is of paramount importance. And of course the co-financing model will lead to the maintenance of bus lines in poorly populated places. Furthermore, several topics are regulated by the proposed amendments to this law. In view of this, the SDP Club considers that such amendments to the law should have taken place in a normal procedure, in two readings, not after an urgent procedure, because there are a lot of objections from the interested public who have not been accepted, and certainly a regular procedure would have brought about an opportunity for a wider debate because, in addition to the debate on the way in which county line transport is financed, the question of how to recognise driver training in other Member States is regulated, the issue of abolishing the passport, the suspension of the obligation of driving licences for goods vehicles above 12 tonnes, as we welcome, is also covered by the question of compensation for the issue of car taxi transport of passengers. I just think that in a broader debate, we would have the opportunity to highlight the important issues that we should, for example, arrange for co-operation with the Ministry of Finance and find some solutions to, say, fees of taxi applications that have been reported outside Croatia, which take 25% of our carriers from the price of driving, which is not fair. We all know that road transport is an extremely responsible business, and back in the year a good part of this sector has been at risk. We also know that drivers have been a deficiting profession for years, and we need to look at keeping each one of them. We should try to make it easier for carriers to have a difficult time, reduce the administration and ultimately need to approach the signing of the Public Transport Treaty as soon as possible, and I believe that it is possible for European practice and certain acts to introduce a sufficient period of time to adapt to the accession of such contracts through public procurement. I believe that we can all agree on a model like this, and it's our goal, of course, that the co-financing goes as soon as possible, but it's also important to implement the same model. As I said, an emergency procedure leaves a lot of open questions in itself, and in this direction we need to regulate these issues much better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40367	Thank you. And now we are going to individual debates, the first one will be spoken by a respected representative, Mako Kuzmanic. Here you go, Mr. Kuzmanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40368	I thank the Vice President, Secretary of State. What we could all agree on here, which is, and even our HDZ colleagues, that this law is passed at pre-election times and that it is too late. This law was to be adopted in a regular procedure, in two readings and had to be prepared in a slightly better way. Today it is questionable what the implementation of this law itself will produce, it is of interest to all of us, in a way, to protect those rural areas that are still so connected with cities and large centres, and if they were to be abolished, if that transport too would be questionable whether these areas would survive at all. I may have even proposed to Minister Butkovic two months ago that in the months from November 1st to May 1st, highway charges were completely abolished, which would somehow help our carriers and all our citizens again, and this would not have caused some great cost in the Croatian highways. But I didn't get any answers to that. We have made certain amendments, and they are primarily related to the article. On 3rd and 7th, as the Competition Protection Agency held that the procedure preceding the conclusion of the contract should be implemented with respect to the principle of competition and the application of non-discriminatory conditions for existing and new providers of the service concerned. This shows that all entrepreneurs should have access to the market under the same conditions. This would then, if it were not to be approached by the amendments to this article of the law for which both the Croatian Community is a county and a working group for transport in November would advise to go on such an amendment, there is a real risk for judicial disputes for units of regional and regional self-government in the event of a direct conclusion of a contract. Likewise, Art. In Article 10, paragraph 33 is amended and the public service referred to in this paragraph should be co-financed by the local self-government unit and the Republic of Croatia. And why is that? So for the implementation of this law, there must be some means, someone has to pay for it, and our units of local self-government, here I have an example of one county, it's Krapina-Zagorska, but I wouldn't get into the details now, I don't have enough time for that, but they would bring local self-government units into very, very big problems. The funds must therefore simply be provided and this amendment should be accepted as a proposal. I watched what the Chamber of crafts referred to you on this matter, and I also read the minutes from the meetings you had with the representatives of the Chamber of crafts, and here I have the most to refer myself to on this taxi ride. Namely, the current Road Traffic Act, which regulates the car taxi market, allows legal persons to have from one to unlimited vehicles on one permit, and in practice it seems that individual legal entities, mahogany craftsmen, have one vehicle and other legal entities j.d.o. or d.o.o. They have more vehicles. A large part of legal entities use these legal means and closes and opens new legal entities at the end of the year due to accumulated debts. And the law allows legal persons with more vehicles to copy the legal person's license as many vehicles as they have. So I'm interested in practice it seems that car taxi carriers that have the original license in the car, and those legal entities that have multiple copies are kept in other cars. No one in the Republic knows how much permission has been issued, no one. Who does this mess suit? As a result of all the above mentioned car taxi carriers are primarily committed to establishing a vehicle database and licences, issuing a vehicle for one vehicle, marking a taxi vehicle with a unique number on the territory of the entire country by means of a taxi number or by means of a registration mark, by example by most European countries which have solved the problem. It is also important to point out that then local self-government would know what the actual number of vehicles is, that there would be no abuse, malfeasance in the area, and it would all be reduced to a minimum. The local self-government should determine the price of that authorisation in its area, and if local self-government is responsible for issuing a taxi vehicle then it should determine how to carry out the transport and the criteria and under what conditions that authorisation will be issued. Car taxi carriers also welcome market liberalisation in the Republic of Croatia, hoping to correct the problem caused by part of the car taxi carrier in the past, but primarily under the same rules for all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40369	Thank you very much, Mr. Kuzmanich. You have three replicas, the first replica of Honorable Representative Davor Dretar. Here you go, Mr. Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40370	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague, we are sitting together on the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure and I would ask you to comment again on what Mr. Spajic said in his speech and what we mentioned on the board as one notor fact, that the transitional period of 10 years has passed since 2009-2019, and now in 2021, all support is generally illegal in the PSO sector. So just once again, please tell the Croatian public what is and how much is done and how many people in this sector are doing, please let us stress that one more time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40371	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40372	Thank you, Comrade Dretar. You said everything about what you said here, but as you mentioned earlier when it came to some important subject, and here I told you when I suggested that we cancel this roadway if the highway is staring at us empty and that we need to reform ourselves, we need to adapt. The European directives tell us what the goal is, they don't set a way to our goal, that's what we determine. But for years this has been a pre-election trade, and that's what's ugly about everything, and I don't want to be a part of it, but I want to help both our carriers and our citizens, especially our rural areas. But as long as these topics are less important, the media will be dominated by the ones you mentioned earlier that she's had a baby we'll often face these problems, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40373	Thank you very much. Let's stick to the subject. Another replica, a respected representative of Marina Opačak Bilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40374	Thank you. Dear fellow, just passing the law by emergency procedure gives the impression that in fact he himself comes under the force of the burden because, of course, we are always late, but this time period is enough, a lot has crossed all the measures. But you mentioned something that is actually crucial perhaps in implementing this line transport contract itself, that we are not sure whether the financial means for implementing this law are provided both in the state and in the local self-government units at all. So what's your comment extra on that?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40375	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40376	Thank you. As far as I have seen the financial resources are not provided, so we have sent this amendment, or these two amendments, to the others, to this area. And what you've noticed well, but I have to add something here, I'm not going to mention bad examples in transport as my colleague Bulj, most carriers work fairly, by law and morally and without this corona crisis they've had problems, and now in this crown crisis they have special problems. Those who carried the children and charged for it on the ticket and received a subsidy instead of 40 children on the bus today have 15, so they have so many fewer and sold tickets and so much less subsidies and for a long time they've been operating with a loss and we have to breathe air to that sector, simply he has to survive.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40377	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Romana Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40378	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague, so you listed taxi carriers and I also believe that the taxi carrier issue has not been resolved even though they have been promised for quite some time now that it will be, if there is more to be explained about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40379	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40380	Comrade Nikolic, here to show you these are the permits before and the permits now, have also given my colleagues from, who are engaged in taxi transport to Kašteli, the permit previously had the name and last name of the person, the area where this taxi transport is carried out, the type of vehicle, the color and the mark, now you have only the license, which is what it deals with, and that's it. 20 licenses like this can be copied and anyone can do it. We're from an absurd situation where we've had a monopoly system, now we've got one complete mess, we can't get into these normal frameworks where all the countries are in our environment. And this is what we have to go back to, but I'm sure when we give these amendments to our representatives because they've even made a positive statement on these examples in meetings with the crafts chamber, I'm sure they'll accept it because it's in the interest of our country. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40381	Thank you. Next individual debate, respected representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40382	Thank you very much. I would now, through an individual debate, once again warn of what is the key to this whole story. The key is that policies have evicted 2/3 of Croatia, poor policies. The key is that it takes subsidizing non-resistable lines, which is necessary, it took a long time, not today, but long ago, but not because we favor certain monopolies in certain areas. I mentioned the problem of Prometheus Sinj i.e. Transport Makarska, owner of Mate Jujnovic, who is well involved with the authorities and at the county level, I am sorry that he does not run an Ante Sanader session, he could better describe the whole case as destroying public good, useful good, in this case means transportation, organised transportation in rural areas where people are leaving anyway. And I can't say that this is where the 2006 Directive is mentioned on 200 pages or how much there is already, with all the reasons, that they suddenly remembered in 2006 some European directive that it should, that the tribune subsidise in areas of undeveloped abandoned transport. Well, of course it's a tribune. Triba honored state secretaries to subsidize and what you have extinguished, sent the card to Dalmatia for the New Year after 100 years you shut down the night train Split-Zagreb, after 100 years. That congratulations on normal, but that's the tribal of subsidizing to keep the north and south. Dalmatia was forgotten, it was forgotten and it was left to various chickens and vultures. And I'm sorry that there's no Ante Sanader behind me, I repeat again, the Pharaoh of the whole, or I'll call him, better to call him a feud, a feuder who manages everything, not even Boban, not these, not them, but that creature that is, down there is managed by it. I am sorry that you do not subsidize what these areas need, and these are projects, such as the fast road from Sinj to Split to the highway. About all the things you give me that every year I am an amendment, every year, persistently, persistently, and now you've had enough for a month before the local elections, so here we are, so transparently, miserablely and miserablely towards the people, according to our discipline now in other countries. So I don't know if you've been to these parts, you've seen these people, you've seen the devastation of that area, but a beautiful area? You mentioned the islands here, on the islands transport road, and you made of land island, from Slavonia, Zagor, nowhere is the sea, but islands are in terms of what is not connected properly, that we do not have strong infrastructure projects and we do not invest, that means the issue of strategy. I'm sorry that Minister Butkovic isn't here, but I don't know how you can come every four years. in Split or another region, our city and hold some kind of government meeting and tell me we invest 2 billion kuna in this area of projects. It's been four years. from the Split government zero kuna, zero kuna, nothing. And every year, all those projects that you've been in the government's session have been combined with the Iotical, either with the Cetinian end of that vertical, every year I give amendments, every year and you refuse it neatly. What worries the Minister of Radosic is up there, in the Castelan, in mine, in his care of Cvrlje, what matters to him. It is important for him to survive in this government not to wave and to play with the ruling party's sponsors, the game is important, that communication and play. Is what Mate Jujnovic does in the region of Dalmatia with his transport it is a disaster, and taxpayers and parents pay for it. Once again, children are literally transported in vehicles that burn down a bus every week.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40383	Time, thank you. Dear Representative Bulj, I'm sorry you're sorry there's no Vice President Sanader but there's me, but I just...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40384	And I see you've shed your tears.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40385	...my, it's my shift, so here. We have one replica, Honorable representative Ante Kujundzic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40386	Thank you, Chairman. Dear counterpart Bulj, according to the Centre for Vehicles of Croatia, on whose competences and methods of prescribing certain specifications now will not, but there will be opportunities, it is actually data that more than 60% of buses are over 10.g. And unionists say it's actually a reflection of the state of the country as it really is. Buses that are even older than this number that I've given is the fact that they're technically correct, which means that, as such, they've obviously passed technical checks. Transporters are burdened with various duties, taxes, taxes on the state which, in principle, saves where they shouldn't, which are either wages to drivers or on the other hand, maintenance of the fleet itself. I welcome these changes and this particular subsidized part that will go on, however, root changes should happen because otherwise, I'm afraid we'll get into a situation that, first of all, no one will want to, and those who want to, the question is what will they do transport services with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40387	Time, thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40388	counterpart Kujundzic, it is not a problem to welcome changes and subsidise non-erable lines in areas where, undeveloped areas, it is not a problem, it should be welcomed. However, every 4 years with the same pamphlet and when we ask the question, he says we will determine by regulation what time of year it is, the bus with which it is transported, this, subsidized in those areas where the subsidized lines, however, here, for example, the taxi service, is defined that taxis must be up to 5 years old. Buses can be on... Give me after them as the Rera of Sin, before, at the beginning of the last century, give me that which I hate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And worse buses, worse kids, just by your driver's skill, those kids are alive. And of course we'll welcome that we need to subsidize, not now before the election, for a month. But it was supposed to work out from the moment when with that, when they... They started taking people from these areas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40389	Thank you. Next individual debate, respected representative Josip Boric. Here you go, Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40390	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The road transport law, I think it's a very important and good law, and I think we all need to support it because it's finally solved a few moments that we haven't had before. The first is that we had the co-financing of public road transport and transport services, from several ministries and that it obviously had its own purpose and those who had achieved this right, first of all, our high schoolers, primary school students, our citizens of the island and some other groups, that we now have the opportunity to expand it to the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia and that they will work from one ministry, the Ministry must and that it is a basic message that should be accepted, regardless of all our considerations whether the buses are good, are not good, whether they drive at the necessary speeds, whether they have enough capacity and whether they have been perfect until now. Of course, although road transport after rail transport and maritime transport is not really the largest number, let's say, of passengers. So, given the time we are now living in and in which we entered a year ago, it created problems and in this space and the state reacted and it should be welcomed. No one should be against this, and now I'm going to say why. Because I had the opportunity to do this on Croatian islands back in 2004, that we introduced then, means public road transport service for all, for some categories of islanders, mostly means for primary school students, who were not covered then by the Ministry of Education, that we introduced it for pensioners, all pensioners, that we introduced it for health workers, disabled people and that we thus ensured that on the islands a large number of people can drive buses from place to place and that they, as bus operators, found their own interest, financial interest. During that moment, they refurbished and refurbished their buses for years. I can say that on the islands today, we have appropriate buses that are the result of just such a measure. I will not say that tomorrow it will be all over Croatia next year, but that it will generate revenue that will allow those bus drivers or operators to better plan their own investments, i.e. rebuilding his fleet. Then we won't have to talk about stories like this that we sometimes witness and we know they happen. So I think it's the greatest moment to support this law, and I welcome it, and I think the Ministry will have to do it right. What's being introduced, it's an obligation for the county and the mayors to do something. So what we did in 2004 with local self-government on the islands, it will now be done with the counties because the counties must finally contribute to it. If they had an obligation so far to establish a network of lines so they didn't exactly want to deal with it because it costs, it costs, now that the state has entered, and when it orders to do so within certain deadlines, then all these candidates for mayors and all those who become mayors will have the opportunity to show what they know in a very short time. Whether they work for those citizens or just tell nice stories like colleagues from the Bridge. So whether to do the job, quickly open or create a network of lines, say we want to give, I heard here a 120 million kuna data expected from co-financing of 20 counties a year. It's not big money for 120, for 20 counties, about 6 million kuna a year. But I'm going to say and compare it to islands, we've isolated 30 million kunas on 10 large islands and covered 100,000 inhabitants living on these islands, and I think then with 50 million kunas to be created here at some county level, there's space that these rural areas that everyone's talking about can get a line that they may have lost or haven't had today, and I think there's a need to look for the good side of this law, and not always criticise any government effort. We have seen in the previous law what we do to achieve, to maintain activity, which we are now doing to maintain another activity in transport, and for me here anyone who wants to be constructive and well-meaning in the sense that he really wants to help should have no problem whether this law should be adopted or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40391	Thank you. We've got replicas three. The first replica is Honored Representative Daniel Spajic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40392	Thank you, Vice President. Well, fellow Boric, look, this law is partial. That doesn't solve the problem. Then you say now the mayors are gonna start doing something. So what have they been up to? Who's going to be responsible for the unhappiness? I mean, what have they been doing so far? You did say in your neighborhood, here in my neighborhood the mayor didn't do anything. He's your member, for 30 years the HDZ has been in power in my county, and let them do something now. So who's going to be responsible for not doing anything, and they were at the expense of the state budget, lives at the expense of the state budget. So is that our fault that we're warning about? You say buses now don't matter if they're old or not old. So what's the big deal? To drive our children buses 50 years old. Well, that's very important. It's important to me if they're gonna drive my baby, I don't know if it matters to you, and I believe it is. These are things that have to change. A law that is good in it should be supported, but these are partial changes. After 11 years [[Intruder Škoro: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40393	The answer to the line, please, Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40394	Thank you, dear colleague Spajic. You're already deep in the campaign, you're like that, I think you're also a candidate for a mayor. Probably people will recognize your work in the Parliament, probably in the county from which you come and nextly will reward you or reward you, will show your thumb up or down. So, no matter what you're trying to do, maybe now you're devalued the mayor's work again, I'm only talking about one segment. They should have, they probably saw that they had a funding problem. And now that the state is involved in the possibility that she helps with her work, I believe they'll do it. And it's the only moment that's already been slow around here. The state has been doing it on islands so far, the state has been working on islands directly without counties and it worked. That's how it'll probably work now across the county, too. Don't look negative, it'll be good. I also tell you about all the ends in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40395	Thank you very much. I beg you for peace in the assembly and stick to the subject. Let's let the local elections go and talk about what's at this point. The next replica of the respected representative Romana Nikolic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40396	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Representative Boric, every time you do, it's as if you get a salary supplement every time you stop for a pay phone because you constantly praise the work of the government and every ministry. So here's what I'm going to ask you is one question as to how you think and think about solving the problems of the occasional carriers. Because we all know that this particular activity was the first one to experience the greatest losses in this pandemic, and nothing was done to bring it down. I can even say you've just forgotten them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40397	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40398	Thank you very much, dear colleague. I don't need an extra to say what I think is right. This law we heard now after 11 years gives some opportunity and are immediately all of them out of opposition. And those who are candidates for mayors are also against it, whether because they won't want to work those six months or because they don't know how to work or I don't know why, but they're against it. And they say only partially as they say from MOST we welcome, because they probably don't want to support the law that would do something and in those places they're very much in favour of. These are the problems you are entering as an opposition here in relation to a government that can and does what it takes to fix something and simply come in front of citizens. If someone's watching this, I don't think you should think too much about who you should trust to solve a problem. This government is doing it. Unfortunately, I participated, i.e. watching what other governments did when they had the chance, it was a disaster from 2012 to 2015 [[Intruder Škoro: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40399	Thank you very much. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Daniel Spajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40400	Article 236 has been injured. What does my candidacy have to do with the mayor's question about the Road Transport Act? What does that have to do with anything? Does that mean I can't run? What does that have to do with anything? I'm asking you to answer my question on the subject you spoke of, you're mentioning my candidacy. Well, I don't have a problem with being mayor. You understand? I live my whole life in the real sector, you know? It doesn't bother me what you're saying. Answer the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40401	Yeah, you're partly right. Let's go to the next replica of the esteemed representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40402	Thank you very much, Vice President. An esteemed colleague, the 2018 Law on the Transport of Passengers, in his final provisions within the deadlines for harmonisation, states that among other things, the reform of the county liner transport of passengers will be done by switching from the system of permits to transport as an economic public service to the provision of 1370/2007. on the road and rail transport market of passengers. Do you think this service will improve when the counties create a new network and will this way speed up the county to make it as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40403	The answer to the line, but I have an apology. So you misapplyed to the article. It's not 236, it's 232. It's about the subject. My bad. I'm giving myself a warning. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40404	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It's important that he was partly right, so It's okay, just keep going. [[/Intruder Škoro: Well, it's partly not called for the right article. We have to stick to that, Mr. Boric. Here you go.]] But I didn't call anyone. The mayoral candidates are calling themselves. They're probably already in advance afraid of the job they're supposed to get caught up in. It's not easy to build a network of lines in the county area where you'll be in charge and, of course, it might be best to lose. And you need to lose. So...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40405	Please, Mr. Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40406	So why are you interrupting me?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40407	Because I have the right to do it as chairman. No, I'm entitled to point 231. Read the Rules of Procedure. I can stop you at any moment. Stick to the subject. Let go of who's gonna run for what. I'm giving you a warning. Please respond to Mrs. Maximchuk's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40408	Why did I get a warning now?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40409	Please respond to the line. Stick to the subject. Let the candidates go, let the mayors go, we're talking about transportation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40410	This is my second time today to be reminded of my speech that should not at all have been caused by any of your reactions, dear Vice President.../The speakers speak at the same time./... but it just shows that you are nervous and that you do not allow any of your members to say anything in this assembly is that you can do it. You can, okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40411	Dear Mr. Boric, please don't touch me while I preside over this House, I'll hold to his dignity, which is regulated by the Rules of Procedure. So I gave a warning, and before that, I gave myself a warning, and I gave you a warning with full right, and you didn't stick to the subject. Let's move on to an individual debate and please don't comment on me, you'll get another warning. The next individual debate is Mrs. Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go. Dear Mr. I will fight under the foundation of the article. In 240th century, I give you a reminder by taking away your word. Go on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40412	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. My colleagues and colleagues. As the warnings begin, I may have to do a little differently with this debate, but joke aside. So let's ask ourselves some questions and answer those questions. These are questions that when I read any law I ask myself, which is the purpose of the law, what is the meaning of the law and how we intend to achieve it, and if I get a positive answer to all these questions, it's a law that I have no problem supporting, no matter what, and if I have some dilemmas, then that's how I decide to vote. So should the law be aligned with the EU Directive? You should. Do we need to define this law a bunch more regulations and regulations that we don't know how to solve now? No, we'll solve what we could solve, and technically we'll solve it somewhere else. Are we all going to make a declaration about the fact that no matter where they live, no matter where they live, they can come quickly, cheaply to their primary and high school? They do. Should they have done that before? Well, they did. Are some parts of Croatia devastated by people because they did not have elementary conditions and opportunities for life? They did. Should we have thought about that before? We did. Have we thought about it? And here we enter the 4th or 5th speed, especially by ruling HDZ at the moment before the local elections all of a sudden we understand everything that is not, everything that is not good is no longer a problem for the EU directive, nor in the budget do we have or do we, it is important that it be and it is important that our Prime Minister, Mr Plenkovic, as a grandfather of the cold, can go around making promises, and some of these promises and do so neatly. And then all of us are doing fools together because he says that in his normal business he is visiting Croatia, we all know that he is visiting Croatia in a pre-election campaign, and that is how it is for all of us who have healthy eyes to see and hear. And this is one of those laws, I'm here sickly when I was preparing it, pre-election law because it's a law that suddenly the government of the Republic of Croatia will suddenly remember and see that we have a problem and that it should be co-financed. Well, my people, we don't have that problem about covid, we don't have that problem since yesterday, we already have that problem for many years. When I was in college, I grew up in a small town, we went because the train was a problem with the train, the train traveled from Bjelovar to Zagreb, for example between two and three hours, by bus we traveled without all these roads for an hour and a half, there were seven to eight buses that were at the bus stop that went on Sundays were students who went to Zagreb. No more, the bus station exists, no more buses because the number of students has decreased significantly and these are facts. So, no matter what I live in one more decent condition, what my kids come to their school on foot, no matter what, I have to admit that every time I give it to them, it's especially depressing when I see kids who have a hard time making decisions in high school because I can't come to high school. It's the country we live in, these are the realities in which, these are the things we need to talk about, these are the things we really need to take care of and see how it works out. I even said in the name of the club one sentence that is very difficult to pronounce, you know that I am from a person who is a great advocate and thinks that by the fact that we are a member of the EU we have received something because I am sure that it is much better to be in good society than in bad society and I am sure that it can be just something that we are better off doing and that we do not think that this project is neither perfect nor finished, but I am equally even a proponent of having a problem with a directive to solve a problem to go to Brussels, to go as many times as it takes and to try to solve it. But it's very interesting that the key moment is right now. I wish we had a real difference between reality and paper. The paper can endure anything and suffer anything, in reality things are very different for us. We will also discuss vehicles here on different alternative Energy sources [[Intruder Voter: Thank you.]] And in reality, there's something completely different. [[Intruder Voter: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40413	Thank you very much. You have three replicas. The first replica of the distinguished representative Nada Murganic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40414	I thank the esteemed vice president. Dear colleagues. I wonder if you think this law is useful for our carriers and ultimately for the users of our citizens or does it only bother you when the law is passed because you mention a pre-election time like we are in the campaign, so we're passing this good law? So, I'd like to conclude that you're in the campaign, too, and then you're criticizing this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40415	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40416	My colleague Murganić, so I will now quote the late Mayor Bandic, who said "I've been in the campaign for four years", so it was his saying when you asked him why you couldn't meet him in the campaign and the rest, the late Mr. Bandic, the mayor of the City of Zagreb, said "I'm in the campaign for four years". And we're campaigning all the time, campaigning for good solutions, campaigning to do something good, campaigning to make some kind of a step, campaigning to make something possible. And that's exactly how I feel about my seat as a councilwoman. When something is good and I believe something, I will support it, when something is problematic, so I wouldn't even have a problem with this if the distribution of those funds was fair. But you and I know it won't be.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40417	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative Branko Juričev Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40418	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Dark Taritate, it seems to me that you have already responded to my line. All the time you've been saying this is pre-election law, and now you've said that we're basically as soon as one election is over in pre-election time and we're preparing for another election. That's what you told us before the end of 2019, 2020, we've been making good election laws all along, now we're in '21. Again all that is good is pre-election. I don't think we should suggest anything good since 2019, because everything we do, we're doing with the goal of winning the election. Looks like we should just have a bad debate in this House. It is also from the visit of Croatia and our prime minister, when he did not visit the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40419	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40420	Thank you very much for this replica of my colleague Juričev Marinchev. I'm extremely glad you gave it away, you know when we're gonna take a step? When there is one proposal for opposition, and you will accept it, as was the case with women and abuse when the opposition proposed and when you discussed it and said ok, but it's not the time and when we all asked you when the time was right. You know when we're gonna take a step? When the proposal comes from which we all agree, very one seems absolutely benign to me, which is that menstrual tax, I will say that word even though it is difficult to pronounce in our public space, on hygienic cartridges and tampons we reduce from 25% to 5% together and it is no problem at all what our proposal is, but let's go then we'll take a step and then we'll show that it's the same and that we're also experiencing a improvement for citizens and citizens of the Republic, until we have that, then we'll do it in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40421	Thank you very much. And the last replica of your presentation, the esteemed representative of Ante Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40422	Thank you, esteemed vice president of HS. My colleagues, Mrak Taritash, I do not want to talk about cartridges and tampons, but I will mention that each government has its own programme and normal its strategies and its phases of reform and investment. We've had a strong investment phase in the road, we've had a boost in coastal transport and line-up, tomorrow will come for example. And here I am, in advance, asking you, since you have most of the right discussions, tomorrow there will be and there will be an announcement of big investment in rail transport. So here I'm asking in advance that we don't come back when we're discussing the huge investment and the billions that are going to go into the railroad so we don't go back to doing this again that we did it during the election. And just one last question, you were the minister of the SDP government, remember one suggestion that you accepted from the opposition? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40423	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40424	Thank you very much. So we go back in circles all the time and spin around in circles, not once. So, from the government where I was a minister, this is the third government, and not once we're going back to the story, but you said that, that, that, and that's why we're saying it, that and that. Let's see how many proposals come from the ruling that the opposition half so that you can see how many there are, more than we vote abstentionally or against. We vote for more proposals to come for than we hold back or against. When the Strategy for Development of the Republic of Croatia was up to 2030 and until 2050, did we say and cry out, why didn't you see us as partners? No, and you will not, and you will never, and as long as there will be no step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40425	Thank you very much. We're done with the replicas. We have one application for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please welcome Mr. Bačić. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40426	Thank you, Vice President. Art. 238, I mean this is hard for me to say, I think that my colleague told the lie in her last part of the show, and I'm asking and I'm going to risk a warning, and I'm asking only one proposal that Minister Dark Tarritash accepted from the opposition when she was a minister, just that one proposal and we're going to talk further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40427	No risk, but profit tells you a reminder based on an article. The 239th because you asked a question through the Infringement Institute of the Rules of Procedure. We have another breach of the Rules of Procedure, a distinguished representative of the Dark Taritash. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40428	So, I very rarely, Art. In 238, very rarely raise this table, I think I used this fourth time in this assembly, but to avoid being denied an esteemed colleague, when it was the Law on Legalization, all the amendments that came from the opposition were then accepted, so as not to remain denied for information.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40429	Thank you very much. And I give you a reminder with the foundation of an article. 239. Please, peace. Can we move on? We can. Next in line for an individual debate, the distinguished representative Ljubica Maksimchuk reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40430	Vice-President of the HS, distinguished state secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Today, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Road Transport Act, we see that the consultation on this law is open on 18 November 2020. where 137 comments were received in the public debate. The road transport law lays down the conditions and arrangements for the operation of public transport of passengers and freight in internal and international road transport, agency activities in road transport, the activities of providing station service on bus and freight stations, transport for their own needs, and the authority responsible for the implementation and supervision of the implementation of this law. This bill shows that the directives of European legislation are being transposed into national legislation, so I will not refer to what my predecessors have said. But the aim of this bill is to regulate the way in which the driver's overall and partial training in other Member States is mutually recognised, to adapt the training content of drivers to real needs, to specify the exemption provisions from the application of the obligation to acquire initial qualifications and periodically train drivers. The proposal for a law will abolish the obligations of a freight vehicle licence above 12 tonnes of the maximum permissible mass to carry a burden on its own needs, which has created unforeseeable costs and problems for entrepreneurs in their business. The aim is also to establish an electronic network for the exchange of information on issued, or withdrawn certificates of initial qualifications between EU Member States, which will certainly make it easier for all Member States to access information. The second part of the amendment and additions relate to the financing of the county liner transport of passengers as a public service, and the provision has been introduced to secure funds from the sale of train tickets from the budget of the units of the regional (regional) self-government or the city of Zagreb. It is also prescribed that the Government of the Republic of Croatia determines by decision the most co-financing amounts as well as the criteria and criteria on the basis of which these public services will be co-financed through the State budget. The proposal for a law lays down a legal basis for co-financing of passenger road transport as a public service. Transport plays a key role in our society and economy, and the quality of our lives and lives of our citizens depends on efficient and affordable transport. But the transport of passengers on bus lines has been less and less profitable for years, especially in less populated areas, and carriers have been forced to abolish an increasing number of lines. On the one hand, our fellow citizens in these parts remain isolated, remain unreachable, and on the other hand we have bus carriers whose business is further difficult during the pandemic where the number of passengers in their buses is limited to only 40% of the capacity. Lineages which are not commercial for bus operators should survive for the purpose of ensuring the transport of inhabitants due to their economic activity and the quality of their lives. This will be achieved by co-financing of public road transport based on this legislative proposal, and therefore they can understand the urgency of this law because we must not be left with units of local and regional self-government without funds. However, I will refer to paragraph 7 of Article 33 but here is the State Secretary’s explanation in its opening statement, which concerns acquired rights, i.e. acquired law institutes. I hope the sublaws get rid of this. I certainly advocate that the islanders have acquired their rights as they have so far, but I must also mention the case of Slavonia where in rural areas residents live definitely badly if not much worse than in islands in those winter times. I would like to point out, which is not the subject of these amendments to the law, but it certainly concerns this law that we have in 2018. Year and this is Article 118. So these are deadlines for harmonising the law exactly says that the counties are obliged to do and that the deadlines were for making a clear network in their counties. Surely without a more modern network there can be no quality public transport. In order for that network to be passed, the counties must consult with their mayors and mayors, of course, because they are the ones who know the needs of their inhabitants.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40431	Thank you very much. You have several replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Ante Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40432	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Maximchuk, most of our debates are heading towards this new way of financing county liner transport. You mentioned exactly that network. I'm interested in your personal opinion since you're from a Slavonian county that thank God has its own rural part, as we have in Dalmatia Dalmatian Zagora, and here you have specifically worked in that county. Do you think it's a good thing that we're transferring this bill to the county itself to organize their own networks and form a new network of liner transport and whether it will improve this existing state that we currently have? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40433	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40434	Thank you very much. To an esteemed colleague, the networks are realistic that counties or counties will work in collaboration with their municipalities and cities because they are the best in the field to know the needs of their inhabitants. And I am sure that new networks will improve transport services, as well as some administrative redundancies that I am sure of in some new changes, additions to this law, surely this government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40435	Thank you. The next replica of the distinguished representative Ankica Zmajić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40436	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, colleague Maximcuk. The long-standing problem is the lack of suspension of bus lines in our villages in Brod-Posavina County where fewer people live and especially older residents. Do you think that these amendments and amendments to the law will allow for a new network of bus lines and whether this situation and this situation will be corrected by the team.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40437	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40438	Thank you very much, colleague. The quality of our fellow citizens' lives depends, of course, on availability and on accessible transport. We are aware that this transport has not been profitable for many years and that some lines have been abolished especially in rural areas for years. I am sure that the new network, but of course this way of funding will certainly stop this problem, and of course in the next period and improve the service of transport and quality in those rural areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40439	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative Marina Opačak Bilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40440	Dear colleagues and you and I come from the same county where your party is in power. Do you have information regarding the obligation of 2018 to create a network of linear transport in order to comply with the directives to which our county has designed and prepared the adjustment process because it is extremely important in our county to have quality programs that will ensure a higher quality of life in rural areas with stable public transport. My question to you is, do you have information as much as our county has prepared for this issue that is of paramount importance for that area and how much it has actually prepared for the implementation of a better and faster law enforcement.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40441	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40442	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, several counties have set out to design and prepare the network. I'm sure our county is in those preparations, too. I sincerely hope that this process will speed up, because the secretary of state said those counties that are faster and that earlier make their new network that will surely have these funds before. So we are a county that has 26 municipalities and a lot of rural areas. It is certainly important for all residents, especially in our villages, to transport quality, and here I will personally, like all of us MPs who come from that county, advocate for the best transport in our county.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40443	Thank you. The next representative, the distinguished representative Branko Juričev Martinchev, is here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40444	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Representatives Maksimchuk you have a long-standing experience of working precisely on the implementation of the rules regarding transport, road transport, transport, local transport problems were specific to you and you have worked on it for a long time. Tell me your opinion given the criticism that comes from the opposition that this law is going into urgent action. Is this a law that's much better to go into emergency procedures or would have been better quality if we'd done it in the regular procedure of the first, then second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40445	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40446	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Yeah, we've heard a lot of criticism about why this law is going by emergency procedure. So I believe that it goes according to an emergency procedure because the big problems accumulated in transport, but also further because of the pandemic, i.e. covida, and it was realistic to expect that carriers would give up on other lines and it was certainly going into haste, to amend and supplement this bill. Surely, some of the following works and additions to this law will improve and respect everything that was not in this emergency procedure. And surely we all advocate both the position and the opposition for a better and better quality public transport service.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40447	Thank you. And the last replica of your presentation by the distinguished representative Sandra Bencic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40448	Thank you. I think I'm following this debate of yours and all of you from HDZ, I think I'm unusually glad that this law re-themed the issue of public transport and its subsidisation. But here's what I have to say, so there's not a single county development strategy, a community development strategy or a city. In the last ten to fifteen years, which does not talk about the problem of public transport, about how it has been destroyed because it has not been subsidized and how market logic does not work in this regard. So here's what I'm wondering if you can share with us at what point exactly did you realize that we won't have public transportation in rural areas if we don't subsidize it. Here's what I'm really interested in because I've been fighting over this issue and it's been professionally active for 15, 20 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40449	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40450	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Public transport problems you said and they've been on their own for years. So we went into implementation of this provision, but they could have gone before. And my colleagues in the debate said that we might be going for the election, but the pre-election years have been both past and gone. And this year is our pre-election. There could have been other governments before that. In 2013, we entered the EU to translate, implement into our legislation. Here's the first government to do it, and so I really welcome it, and I don't think it's anything bad that we support and praise this class. Any good proposal and any good legislative framework that any government adopts and is on the ground for our fellow citizens favourable I hope that it will welcome both the right and left sides of this assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40451	Thank you very much, Your Honor. We continue in the order of the registered deputies. The following is the turn for an individual debate, distinguished representative Davor Dretar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40452	Thank you, well-respected Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed State Secretary with his associates, the esteemed Deputy Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here is Mr. Kuzmanic, Mr. Ćorić, president of the Assembly Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. Mr. Boric was here a little while ago. The three of us listed in society are some other members of the Assembly Committee already mentioned. Yesterday we had a session of the Assembly Committee and we discussed this bill. He didn't go through the parliamentary procedure, or the committee procedure, and here today, it's Thursday. We'll vote on him tomorrow Friday. And respected Mrs. Juričev-Martinchev that, I do not agree with such a quick way of implementing, or pushing a law through the parliamentary procedure. The Honorable lady just told us here that it was because of the covid. Covid started a year ago. If we're really going to solve something urgently, then we should have solved it on April 4, 2020. Covid started a year ago. We're working something out. I think I'm sorry that argument doesn't hold water for you. Once again, I will remind you of yesterday's debate in which we have indeed found ourselves in a collision with the fact, one great lady is yesterday, already twice coming to meetings of the Assembly Committee extremely reasoned and she reminded us that all the money since 2019 has expired after a 10-year deadline for adjustment is actually illegal support. The lady has drawn our attention to the fact that the EU can briefly and clearly say this by domestic tightness of control. And then what happens, and who's going to pay you back? I have to admit, I don't know. I will be here for a moment because I am not an expert in transportation, especially not a freighter to touch a taxi transport or this regulation. HGK doesn't support it, Cameo doesn't support it, many don't support what it says here, and this is how it says it. An individual vehicle shall not be subject to authorisation for carrying out taxis and shall be attached to the registration plate. We are all aware that market liberalisation is good for the end-user, no doubt. All of us, since there are more and more companies offering us taxi rides, we enjoy the fact that someone on the route that we would once pay 50 kuna will now take us to 18. To us it's like users okay, that's true. However, we must finally ask ourselves whether this price can actually be economically sustainable in the long run. Or we just don't see a good solution here right now. I remind you, as I was saying in the debate on the first item of today's agenda. We need to pass precise laws. And here in point 18 it says, when carrying out a car taxi or driving a passenger taxi, it is necessary to have a licence in the vehicle. Is that a piece of paper that was copied? Should he be certified by a public notary? Unfortunately, it doesn't say here. So it's not a good law. It's not exactly the law. We have, of course, another very fun fact where we have this graduation of 3 to 10 vehicles as for 6, 11 to 50 as for 30, to cut off more than 100 vehicles as for a hundred vehicles. What if we have 380 vehicles? So once again I'm going to say I support liberalisation, for that I'm that every user of any service has the same right to get as cheap as possible, let the market do its job absolutely, but the law as a law must be precise. None of us when we go to the hospital for a doctor's surgery expect the doctor to tell him, so we'll open you up and see what happens. You put yourself in the hands of very professional people. Then let the laws that we bring to this highest home of the Republic of Croatia be professional, be honest and be well and accurately written. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40453	Thank you very much, wait a minute, you have two replicas, please come back, all right. The first in line is the distinguished representative Matko Kuzmanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40454	Comrade Dretar, you've noticed well, but it's called a modern PR. So HDZ creates a problem, then solves the problem. I guess they have this joint adviser at the level of the European People's Party, which they belong to, so their colleague from our neighbouring republic, who is also a member of the European People's Party, not to mention who, the other day also created the problem by saying that some Croatian wine was bad, and then apologized, and let's face it, that wine was equally good before and now only that the clown got its 5 minutes later. Well, that's the sad part of it. It's obviously one, one PR strategy to show people before the election that they care about them and to solve their problems. These problems were before the crowns were and will stop after the crown. There you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40455	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40456	Thank you, well-respected representative Kuzmanić, this reference to wine is original, I must admit that I do not quite understand it, but what is quite certain is the fact that once again and if I have to say 350 times, this is the highest home, we are bringing laws here, and we will not bring down our privileges and our rights as Parliament's representatives at the level of adopting some rules that we will later, as the highest home, not have under control. I wouldn't, thank you very much, for so-called. roles in the football jargon, but I wouldn't drag this into interparty debate because I don't think there's really any need for that. We all need to be aware that we are doing a very responsible job and should treat it that way. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40457	Thank you very much and another replica of the distinguished representative Pero Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40458	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Dretar, you said yourself that we had discussed this law at all yesterday on our basic committee for the adoption of this law and that this directive had already been adopted in the EU 10 years ago and no government has discussed it until today, its provisions were to be implemented in 2019, and now we are doing it by emergency procedure. Something's been done, so public line transport's been established, you subsidized the few islands, the endangered, the children and everything else. One whole system isn't built. If it hadn't been for this crown of crisis and this fall of traffic and everything else and the abandonment of the transporter might not have happened right now, maybe it would have been waiting, but here's the time to do it, and we just have to do it by emergency procedure, but otherwise we should think about spending more time on professional stuff than maybe in the assembly discussing where such discussions are all sorts of things. And everything else, so one new relationship to... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40459	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40460	Thank you, well-respected Mr. Cosic, as well as the chairman of our parliamentary committee, it is always a real honor and pleasure to take part in our committee sessions, take this very authoritative and very correctly in cooperation with all the opposition representatives there and it is true that it is true. Maybe the time has come for us to do this after all this legal time, so let's make it an emergency procedure, I'm just reminding you, not everyone's gonna be so benevolent. In principle, the adoption of laws by emergency procedure is in direct conflict with certain provisions and Rules of Procedure of the HS and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, so I will always say, let's bring it in. All of us here aim to make the citizens of this country better, and I am fully in agreement, let's push it and let's do it. But some may not be so well-intentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40461	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas, you can go to a place. We continue with individual debates. Next in line is distinguished representative Romana Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40462	Thank you, Vice President. The amendments and additions to the Road Transport Act have been adopted in part for carriers. Some of the proposals of the profession have been respected, which is the removal of passports in internal road transport, which was a form that the carrier had to have in the vehicle when carrying out the transport and was obliged to keep it for at least two years after the transport was carried out. Also, it abolished one of the parafiscal duties, and 50% of the revenue from this charge belonged to the HGK. In particular, I would like to point out that this amendment did not affect the rights of carriers which, on the date of entry into force of the 2018 law, maintained the county lines and inter-community lines up to 100km. A major shift has also been made with the introduction of a public service to which carriers have been waiting since 2018. In fact, signing a public service contract would provide operators with sustainable business during the crisis, restrictions on movement and bad tourist seasons have made it difficult for all carriers to save their business in this way. What is controversial about this amendment is that these amendments and amendments to the law do not allow for the early signing of a public service contract again. The public service contracts were to be concluded by 30.11.2019 at the latest, and the government's decision and regulation requiring a certain time should be made, and the carriers are in an increasingly difficult position every day because they are at risk of operating, are not required to pay fuel and current obligations while passengers remain deprived of the service of transport on non-performable lines which, without co-financing, are increasing on a daily basis. If the Government has already promoted that for road passenger transport, there is already a rule on the operation of road passenger transport and that it regulates how the law is implemented, it should adopt a regulation, but which will not affect the rights acquired by our carriers. We believe that, personally, I think that the ministry has missed the ideal opportunity to change all other illogicalities in the law for which transport associations have been fighting since June 2018, when a new law came into force at the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40463	Thank you, Your Honor. You've got one replica, MP Opaljak Bilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40464	Thank you. Dear colleagues. You mentioned in your individual discussion the importance of adopting a regulation through which contracts will be signed through a public tender. Which, in your opinion, would be a clear deadline for bringing the same i.e. what deadline do you consider sufficient for the preparation of our carriers to be ready to approach public tenders?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40465	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40466	Thank you, Representative Vazčak Bilic. So given the requirement of the carrier to prepare for accession to the public tender, it takes a lot of time and in their opinion each, and should listen to the profession, each deadline below three years would be too short. But let the regulation be passed, but don't touch the acquired rights of our carriers. The same view regarding the respect of acquired rights of carriers which had valid licences at the date of entry into force was confirmed by the Competition Protection Agency.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40467	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. And now we're going to the closing words on behalf of the clubs. On behalf of the Green-Left bloc advocates' club, the distinguished representative Sandra Bencic will finally speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40468	Thank you, Vice President. So, one of my own absolute priority measures to prevent the depopulation of rural areas of Croatia is to ensure mobility within rural areas, but also to ensure their connection with medium and larger urban centres, so there is no life in rural areas without it. As I came from the rural area, though it was a long time ago when I lived there, but I remember how much we depended on how much we depended on having a train, and that those places that don't have a train are connected to the first train centres that can help us reach larger urban centers. We went to school like that. People used to go to work there. However, today in Zagorje from which I come is a fantastic example of what happened at Croatian level. So, apart from the fact that our rail lines are half-way through, by half, the bus ride this local public has been ruined. Now there's some of that public road traffic, but it's completely monopolised, so we replaced those natural-public monopolies with this other private monopoly. So I'll tell you how to do it, for example. I guess so. Let's say for that more or less monopoly, so I won't mention the monopolies that have this bus ride, the relationship of Zabok-Bedekovčina, that's 15 km away, it costs 23 kuna in one direction, Zabok-Tuhelj 27 kuna also 15, 16 km. So now imagine if you go on a daily basis in two directions. So who can afford it? Who can afford that? I note that it is the Krapina-Zagorje County which seems to me to be the third to the lowest average salary in the Republic of Croatia. They were only up there last time I saw Varazdin and Međimurje County. How could you afford it? So, this poor coverage of all our counties, I'm not just talking about Zagorje, I can talk about Lika-Senj County, so I can talk about Slavonian counties where the same situation is. Especially the same in Western Slavonia, so Pacrac and all that circle too. So why do we have this bad coverage? Well, because we have succumbed to market fundamentalism. We literally succumbed to this idea because for some crazy reason it was believed that the market would cover public needs. The market covers those needs that pay off. That's so clear. And that's why the market can really give a good answer to some things, but to those that are a public need and are not financially profitable we can't and can't expect it to give. So, it's completely off the market and I've heard it from politicians, from decision-makers at local and regional levels. That's the way it is. If there's no cost for that line, then that line doesn't even have to exist. That was an explanation. So, after 15 years of such a radical policy, 20 came to be charged in the form of total distribution of some parts of Croatia, total ruin of rural areas, huge inequalities in access to basic services. So we have the ends of this country where someone who doesn't have a car, and for example the older population often can't get home to health or to the Social Care Centre. So that's the situation we've made. And here you are in 2021, and I'm really glad because I've been saying that for 15, 20 years, I've been listening to it on the ground that it's finally been understood that there's no public transport if we don't subsidize it in rural areas. Therefore, it is not a question of whether public transport is profitable at that price which is its price. The question is what's the price if we don't have it. I hope that on that example we learned a lesson, that we learned a lesson that can and cannot be a market-oriented thing. I just wanted to give you one more example. Communal, meaning at the municipal level, the level of municipalities or several municipalities. We can also go to models to finance from the Energy Efficiency Fund to get electric mini-buses, to hire three people and to circle, to have circular lines because it might be easier to get there and pay off than to get a private carrier and give him to do a public service. Because in some parts you don't even have a carrier. [[Intruder Voter: Thank you.]] No one is interested even at the subsidized price. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40469	Thank you, Reverend Bencic. And now, on behalf of the promoter, after the debate, the finally respected Secretary of State Tomislav Mihotic will address.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40470	I'll try to answer the most common questions and comment. First of all, this draft law amending and supplementing the law will establish public service for the county public road transport of passengers and provide financial resources to be financed by public service. Public service contracts shall provide a standard of availability of public liner transport towards the area of settlement of each particular county as well as a standard of quality of the rolling stock of the operator with which the contracts are signed. This was a common issue regarding the quality of the rolling stock to be available. The redistribution of financial resources amounting to 320 million kuna as well as additional appropriations from the budget amounting to HRK 107 million and from ticket sales and funds from local and regional self-government units has provided a financial structure to ensure the establishment of a public service. As regards the taxi transport of passengers, this law provides that units of local self-government shall keep records of the licences issued to the data system as an integral part of the national register of road carriers, thereby providing for an insight into the number of taxi licences issued for certain units of local self-government. It is important to stress that representatives of car taxi carriers have come from their 6 demands to a meeting in the ministry regarding these amendments and amendments to the law. Two are fully respected. One is the one I was talking about, and the other is that taxi drivers with more than five years of experience will be freed from the obligation to pass professional training exams. The reform of the 2018 car transport has been carried out as part of a broad change in road transport and has brought Croatian legislation into line with the EU, improved service quality and reduced service prices for end-users, and has increased the number of jobs in car taxis. I think you can all admit that the use of taxis with these changes has grown drastically. Furthermore, the lifting of the licence requirement for vehicles of a total mass exceeding 12 tonnes for transport for its own purposes ensures easier business for craftsmen and utility companies. So we went out to meet about those demands, and we liberalized that part. And I don't agree that this puts autocarers at risk in such a way that it could significantly damage their business activities in that activity. Then, as regards vaccination of drivers, we received a request from the Association of Transporters to place professional drivers as a particularly endangered category on vaccination lists and we supported and directed them towards HZJZ. The EU Parliament and Council Regulation of 1370 of 2007 has been in force since 2009 and its provisions have been implemented for the first time in the Road Transport Act 2018 and until the amendments and addition of this law have been necessary to ensure and prepare financial resources and other mechanisms for implementation, which introduces a kind of reform of public liner passenger transport. The Regulation and the Regulation will be adopted within the time limit prescribed and already carried out in parallel with these amendments and amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40471	Thank you. Stay, please, you have two replicas. The first is that distinguished representative of the Dark-Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40472	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the HS, dear secretary of state, so this is what caused it, and, of course, our debate, which is the role of the state in helping, or subsidising transport for high school. When you're doing some kind of law or you're doing some projection, then I guess you've also got an analysis of how much it is, what number of high school students are at all talking about, and how much of the funding from the state budget or what county it's about, how many units of local self-government, so some projection you've been doing, something you've been doing, or how many lines are it, or how many car carriers are it, so any information that we have, that we know about what it's about and what the frames are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40473	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40474	Well, I'm sure we've been working on that data, and there's not enough coverage for that whole system. The networks of high school students to school and it was one of the basic things why we went in this way and the system of distribution of funds and a whole other network that would cover it all together.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40475	Thank you. And another replica, the esteemed representative Sandra Bencic, please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40476	Well, I wanted to ask you, like this, how you're going to regulate the question that you've been given as a result of the liberalisation of taxis in cities, which is that in certain cities, and especially on the coast, you have so many taxi drivers, taxi drivers or taxi drivers from other cities, that you can't literally walk on the road, you're not worth driving by taxis or your car because you can't pass, I'm going to give you an example of Dubrovnik, let's say, and what it looks like in summer months. So it is necessary when such measures are being taken, to think about what impact this will have on transport in a particular city at all on transport, but also what effect it will have on CO2 emissions, so if we are, we are going towards changing the impact of road traffic on CO2 emissions, then maybe we should see it to this extent.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40477	Thank you. Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40478	Generally, the system that was established has led to major shifts. Normally, there are a few points that have shown some problems, and together with local self-government, we solve them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40479	Thank you. You can go to your seat now. I'm closing up. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We move to the next item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the promotion of clean vehicles in road transport, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 121; The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 121 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85 Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia. 172 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. I see that the proposer's representative wishes to give an additional explanation. Here you go again, dear Secretary of State Mihotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40493	... clean vehicles in road transport. [[Specially enabled.]] The provisions of EU Directive 1161 of 2019 shall be implemented in national legislation. EU Parliament and Council of 20 June 2019 amending Directive 33 of 2009 The EC on the promotion of clean and energy efficient vehicles in road transport. The new Directive removes certain shortcomings in the implementation of the basic Clean Vehicles Directive. Its implementation of the legal order of the Member States, as well as the shortcomings in its implementation at national level. The minimum public procurement objectives for the share of clean, light and heavy vehicles per Member State are also established through certain times, which public procurement bonds must take into account in all public procurement procedures that will be carried out after 2 August 2021. In line with the conclusions of the EU Council, the EU aims to introduce a sustainable, competitive, secure and decarbonised energy system, with the obligation to further reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40% by 2030 compared to 1990 levels, to increase the share of renewable energy to at least 27%, to achieve energy savings of at least 27% and to improve Union energy security, competitiveness and sustainability. The decarbonisation of the transport sector is apparent and will therefore have to be on the way to total removal by the middle of the century. Without delay, the aim is to significantly reduce the emissions of transport pollutants, which are harmful to health and the environment, which can be achieved by measures that encourage the transition to public transport and public procurement promoting clean vehicles. The promotion of clean vehicles should be carried out in parallel with the further development of public transport, as this is a way of reducing traffic congestion and, consequently, reducing the emissions of harmful gases and improving air quality. One of the essential components of a sustainable, competitive, safe and decarbonised energy system is the public procurement process that promotes clean vehicles carried out by public transport. Following this proposal, the law introduces the obligation of the European Commission to report on the minimum public procurement objectives for the share of clean, light and heavy vehicles in relation to the current law. It extends the scope of the law to leasing vehicles, renting or renting with the right of purchase, and contracts for certain services instead of only for the purchase of a vehicle. The list of services covered by the new law is better defined and now includes public road transport services, special road transport of passengers, exceptional transport of passengers as well as special mail and package delivery services. On the other hand, in order to avoid imposing a disproportionate burden on public authorities and operators of the new law, the public procurement of certain vehicles with specific characteristics related to their operational requirements is excluded. These vehicles shall include armored vehicles, emergency vehicles, funeral vehicles, vehicles of category M1 with access to wheelchairs, mobile cranes, vehicles designed and designed primarily for use on construction sites or in quarryes, ports or airports as well as vehicles specially designed and manufactured or modified to be used by armed forces, civil protection, fire departments, public order maintenance forces and road maintenance vehicles such as snow pickets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40494	Thank you very much. You have two replicas. First respected representative of Ante Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40495	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, on the one hand, we have a quite ambitious plan and a goal that we have established by the directive, which is that the minimum share of renewable energy related to transport in the transport sector itself is 14% by 2030. On the other hand, according to the data provided by the Centre for Vehicles of Croatia, as far as electric vehicles themselves are concerned, we have them of the total number of vehicles of 0.042%. I think that we would achieve that ambitious goal should increase the number, which is I think the fastest we can achieve that goal if we increase the number of electric vehicles in our traffic. I'm curious to know if there may not be a ministry's position I'm personally interested in you and I know that they're expensive vehicles. Can we be sure of that, for example? We cancel VAT on the purchase of such vehicles?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40496	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40497	So in any case, in order for the goal to be achieved, vehicles should be accessible. Therefore, all the measures that will go in this direction will support and support and try to enable people to get cheaper and easier access to such vehicles.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40498	Another replica, the esteemed representative of the Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40499	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, I have a very, very simple question. So we have a law that has a dozen, ten articles to be absolutely clear, relatively simple, and relatively clear. We had such a law in 2013 so now it is in accordance with the directive we or you are proposing a new law, but there is a provision in Article 6 of the obligation to adopt one rule, so I wonder where you are with that rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40500	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40501	Well, the rule of law is in preparation, as I said in the previous law, parallel to law-making, we prepare it and it will be passed within the time limit laid down. We hope it will be effective and will serve the objective for which the law has been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40502	Thank you very much, no more replicas, you can go to your seat. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, that's when I open up a club debate. First of all, it's the Club of Representatives of the Most. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of MOST will speak the esteemed representative Miro Bulj, he's gone, and there he is, attacking on the side, so I'm looking here. So how could I have thought Mira was gone?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40503	Good, come on, I forgive you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40504	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40505	My colleagues and colleagues, we have a new Law on the promotion of clean vehicles in road transport that will replace the current, applicable law. As far as the proposal is concerned, it is difficult to argue, that the law, that the law does not contain an assessment of the situation in which it was, in which it would be shown what has been done in Croatia so far in promoting clean vehicles. That's basically what we're supposed to start with, it's a state-of-the-art assessment. But you didn't deliver it to the MPs of the state. The current law, which has been in place since 2013, should have been made available to the extent that vehicles meet the criteria of clean vehicles that carriers and public carriers have begun to equip their fleet with clean vehicles and which have failed. We are absolutely discussing here, and no assessment of the situation or any effect of the existing law on clean vehicles we do not have. And what is essentially now that we are calling for green policies, which is disastrous that we are even passing a new law, and basically this existing law that was in force in 2013, we don't have any assessment of the situation. In other things, we will have to report, we have this obligation to the European Commission, so it would be good to start by knowing what our situation is. Moreover, this proposal does not specify the exact objectives to which we want, what we want and what our objectives are and what we want to achieve, what are the numbers of clean vehicles in public transport that we want to have in 5 or 10 years from today, or from the adoption of laws. I would also like to draw attention to the observations that have arrived in the public consultation. Several carriers complain that the deadlines for adapting and implementing this law are too short. Carriers say they have no place to get the clean vehicles that are covered by this law. If that is true, then we find ourselves in a devastating situation to pass a law that cannot be implemented in practice. Unfortunately, this is becoming increasingly common, making laws, copying regulations, directives, and in fact they are inconclusive, and that is a sad fact if this is true, what it means for us to be consulted by carriers. And as you as the ministry have agreed with the carriers, it's very important that you and how you negotiated it would also be good to know. You have not given your answers dryly or bureaucratically at all, but have rejected their remarks to the floscules that the law is in line with the European Directive and that is what I am talking about all the time, and that this law will be implemented on the ground. So what's going to be real is you don't answer to the transporters in counseling. This is where the problem of this law is, except for the copying of regulations and directives. All these questions deserve answers, and I ask the Ministry's representative to give us answers today, both for our own reasons and for the transporters, and of course for the very policies that this government is calling for, and these are the green policies, because otherwise this law that we are discussing it in this way simply so that we should not have to discuss it unless it is applicable and if the carriers cannot comply with this law by their own fault but are not allowed to use these legal provisions. We've only got nine months before the local elections, two months to local elections. We have many important local topics, and public transport is one of the key local and municipal topics. Vehicles in public transport especially buses can be often overcrowded by passengers, too rarely drive, often hold on, do not hold on to the timetable, and older vehicles can also be large air pollutants questionable correctness. And here it's very important to mention what I said at the previous point. That we did not limit vehicles as I said in the case of Transport Makarska or Transport Sinj, and probably others, that they drive vehicles older than 20, 30 years and we did not essentially limit that part of the segment in the transport of passengers, which is one of the key issues mainly in larger areas, larger cities and, of course, in smaller and whole Republic of Croatia. Investments in public transport and the purchase of a new fleet must be at the top of not only my city of Sinj, but all our public carriers in all cities and municipalities. And it's important that vehicles are comfortable, safe, not polluting the air and the environment. But it's not enough to promote clean vehicles just in public transport. We can do very much if we want to promote the construction of a network of chargers for electric cars, introduce at local level much cheaper parking for clean vehicles or encourage taxi owners to purchase clean vehicles and to drive taxis to clean vehicles. That's where the tribune of the ministry and state help public transporters. This incentive system for the purchase of electric cars we have so far, where every year citizens play the fastest finger is bad and insufficient. I think such fast-toe procurements that are subsidized are not good but the triba to be open to all equally, because where there is no signal, for example. in the competition for subsidies in electric vehicles, if there is no signal in any area, that man has no chance and first of all it is embarrassing to say that he presses this one on the screen of his cell phone or computer that he will exercise those rights. This incentive system for the purchase of electric vehicles and cars as we now obviously have exists, that it's not enough. It is obvious that there is an increasing interest of Croatian citizens in buying electric vehicles or hybrid or similar clean vehicles, and the state must accompany it. It's just the future that's coming, which is somewhere already, is already there. I think we can do much more in all of this to ensure a clean environment in our settlements, cities like numerous cities, mostly larger cities that I mentioned from both Split and Zagreb and Moja Sinj, Rijeka, Osijek, all cities in the area of the Republic of Croatia. In this direction, we must all go together, otherwise if we only adopt regulations and directives as regards clean vehicles in road transport we have achieved nothing then, but simply we have copied the directives, the carriers remain in difficulty because they cannot comply with the legal provisions. As a result, many questions from the ministry's representatives, the State Secretary is ahead of you to answer the transporters, because making the law, and not preparing the application of this law, is extremely inconclusive to me, because if it is only the fact that we have to rewrite it then we have not tampered with this directive, then it ends with the essence of Parliament, the essence of the ministry, the essence of democracy, because if something is inconclusive in that way we will not be able to function, so those who use this possibility of these vehicles will not be able to use it and they are breaking the law. So we're passing a law where people are going to break that law, and we're aware of that because we're not implementing it on the ground among people. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40506	Thank you. We're moving on with the debate on behalf of the clubs. Next up is the House Movement Representatives' Club, on behalf of whom the distinguished representative Davor Dretar will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40507	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman. My colleagues, my colleagues, that's the beginning of all sorts of things a man can find when he's going through these impasses of online reality. Just a few data from the official website of the Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund as an introduction to my exposure. Transport in total energy consumption has a 30% share. In EU greenhouse gas emissions, around 25% of which, as much as 72% generate road traffic. Let me once again quote, in line with the EU's objectives of reducing greenhouse gas emissions and of course reducing air pollution, it is necessary to highlight the importance of cleaner transport or energy efficiency in transport and to encourage projects to increase energy efficiency, transport systems and use more efficient vehicles. Vehicles using renewable energy sources to a greater extent and having reduced CO2 emissions, i.e. short and clear electric vehicles. In line with the March 2011 EU transport strategy guidelines that put transport in the context of the new EU development strategy, we also have a transport emission reduction programme for 2020. This programme, in line with the Energy Development Strategy, provides for measures to reduce transport emissions and achieve the 10% target, we are now at 14% of the share of renewable energy sources in all modes of transport. There is therefore a programme to encourage the purchase of electric and plug-in vehicles, hybrid vehicles for citizens, companies, companies and craftsmen. There is also a change in excise duties and, of course, the Law on the promotion of clean and energy efficient vehicles in road transport that we are currently discussing. But it's just one part of the whole story about this law. Let me say it one more time, here is the president of my board, Mr. Kuzmanic, as a member, we discussed it. We concluded that all of us are somewhat sarcastic that the debate on the procurement of such vehicles in the public sector is about the same as talking about the Croatian space programme, the inclusion of Croatia in the international space station project and, of course, the first Croatian colony on Mars. Our goal is December 31, 2025. Let me just quote for a moment a few very reasonable arguments from the public debate in which car carriers or commercial companies participated, briefly and clearly on Croatian-speaking companies or these companies dealing with transport. There are Autotransport d.d., Autotransport Karlovac, Chazmatrans and others. They all referred to the deadline for applying emission limits by 31 December 2025 or zero emissions from exhaust pipes. It's very simple to cut this whole story short right now. The implementation of clean vehicles requires a lot of investment, an increase in economic activity currently regrettable in the pandemic of Covida-19. First of all, it refers to the introduction of a public service to ensure a long-term sustainable model of financing and the implementation of public passenger transport. However, the naked fact is, currently in the Republic of Croatia, not a single representative of the procurement of commercial vehicles offers any vehicles that satisfy the definition of clean vehicles, nor in the announcement that such vehicles will soon be offered at all. This is just perhaps a bit of bureaucratic language said one clear fact that we can also say in the language of the people, that we can decide to reduce emissions, introduce vehicles that will have zero emissions, but respected ladies and gentlemen of such vehicles simply do not exist on the market at this moment. I welcome, of course, this extraordinary action that has been going on for several years to give subsidies to the purchase of electric power-powered vehicles, which is absolutely to greet. We have a great man in Croatia, Mr. Matu Rimec, who works miracles, who has shown us all the ways to go, we need to think, we need to create basics for a good and quality product, and then the Croatian state needs to support all the forces and, of course, financially. We can, oh yes, we can certainly have a sustainable, quality, so I can say freely a little and an elite electric vehicle industry in Croatia. What do we have to do? We just need to shut down for a second. We need to stop the legal burdens or any means of pressure legitimately burdening these people. Mate Rimac has succeeded why? Did he ask anyone? It's not. Never in life in the Croatian Parliament has a single sentence spoken of his company. The man did it. What do you think we've passed here is a law that I won't tell Mother Rimac, no need, any person, any company we've given 350 million kunas from the Croatian budget to develop our electric vehicle. Do you think this project wouldn't work? Or someone's not in the interest of us producing anything. I say again, we've been running away from conspiracy theories our whole lives. No, no one cares that Croatia does not succeed either the ruling party or the ruling party or the parties that will rule this country in the future. I'm sure he didn't. It's in everyone's best interest to be better, I'm completely sure and convinced of that truth. But let's give it up, please, instead of talking here about the paper we need to fill out by 31. December 2025, and I'm convinced, and I'm sure all of you will not meet that goal because we don't have a technological or financial prerequisite for it. Let's make a deal on what we're going to do on May 15, 2021. Are we going somewhere in Croatia to think with some local self-government unit to find a piece of land, so that we can build a serious factory there and let's not be ashamed to go ask smarter than us. Thank God there are so many thousands of people in this world who are smarter than all of us together. Let's ask them how. Well, he'll probably tell us. If he won't tell us for free, we'll pay for some. Let's do it. Why do we have till 31. In December 2025, they wouldn't tell Europe if you needed commercial power-powered vehicles. Here they come to me in the Crosses, in St. John's Landing. Weeks in Sibenik, in the White monastery, in Pazin we produce 450 pieces a month. Then we're the responsible country, then we're the responsible Parliament, and then we can be serious players. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40508	Thank you. We're moving on. Next up, it's SDP Representatives' Club. On behalf of the SDP MPs' club, the distinguished representative Mako Kuzmanic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40509	... You're still present in this hour here. [[Specially enabled.]] This is a good trip. This law is definitely a good way to go, and why I'm gonna say a few words about it. The European Green Plan makes it clear that there is a sustainable transport direction which basically relies on electromobility as a lever for reducing greenhouse gases and harmful exhaust gases of the Transport Sector. In order to achieve the regulatory targets set by 2030, a third of the newly registered EU rolling stock can be expected to use electricity for propulsion. In addition, in order to enable the Commission to provide the European Green Plan, it has set an ambitious goal of one million chargers for electric vehicles by 2025, which represents an increase of 5 times compared to the current state, which is 200,000 chargers. In order to meet the needs of current and future motorists of primarily electric vehicles, many Member States have adopted plans and legislative frameworks to achieve European objectives on infrastructure and to increase the number of electric vehicles on the roads. The proposed law covers more or less copy-passes of the EU Directives and includes public procurement obligations. In fact, the key document of this law is a regulation that should be adopted by the Minister of Economy and Sustainable Development 60 days after the entry into force of the law, which will define the quota of clean vehicles that bonds will have to respect in the course of new tenders. As usual, bad practice is that laws and regulations are not made in the package, so we can only hope that the rulebook, that the rulebook will be passed within the specified time limit. However, the adoption of the law is only a small but not sufficient step in the right direction because this law solves the problem of mobility only partially and only in the vehicle segment, but not infrastructure. As an example of good European practice, Poland can be cited, which adopted the Law on Electromobility and Alternative Fuels, which defines national legislation on the development of electromobility but also the exact competences and obligations of individual stakeholders in the system, as well as the financing and implementation of the laws of defined objectives, which in our case is completely lagging behind. It is a pity that the bill fails to define the obligations of units of local and regional self-government with regard to achieving the objectives of the number of chargers of electric vehicles. This should be done taking into account the size of units of local and regional self-government, but thus enabling them to provide funding sources in the new financial envelope or recovery plan. In the national framework, the policy framework should specify in detail the number and type of chargers to be built in a given area. Since this law has been omitted, we can only hope that the said regulation will define the establishment of an alternative fuel infrastructure register. The competent ministry should have access to data collected in the register as well as the possibility of making real data available for the purposes of reporting to the European Commission on the achieved targets for the use of renewable energy sources in the transport sector, and shall carry out analyses from those data which would be able to further improve the process of electrification of the Croatian transport system. In order to prevent adverse effects on human health and the environment related to the emissions of pollution from the transport sector, the law should also establish areas of clean traffic which only vehicles with one electric power plant would have a smooth entry, meaning plug-in electric vehicles and battery electric vehicles. Two on hydrogen and three on natural gas. The law should regulate the concept of a clean transport zone and define the competent authorities responsible for establishing it. The Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund has been conducting a tender in recent years aimed at encouraging the construction of a network of chargers, as well as the purchase of electric vehicles. In order to implement the plans proposed by this law, an additional source of funding should be provided, and so far it is not known whether this is planned to be made out of the funds of the multiannual financial framework or recovery plan. In the case of Poland, a co-financing fund for clean transport projects has been set up to allocate 2 eurocents from each litre of sold fuel, which could be a good model for the Republic of Croatia as well. Finally, electromobility as a mandatory component of European legislation will have far-reaching consequences on the economy, energy, ecology and all and society, and can be characterised as an extremely potent technological platform. He mentioned a colleague, Dretar, namely the Republic of Croatia, who has a company such as the Roman Sea Cars, learns to this area significantly more ambitious and thoughtfully, not just to carry a minimum, minimum European legislation without a developmental vision and deeper thinking. In the long-term perspective, it is expected that a minimum one publicly available charger will need to be provided on every 10 registered electric vehicles. And what does that mean with us? This would mean that today's contingent of 1 and a half million registered vehicles in the Republic of Croatia, for example, in a scenario where all vehicles would be switched to electricity, about 150,000 publicly available chargers should be provided, and the total value of that investment cycle would be around 10 billion kuna. Therefore, with 2/3 of the year-to-year value of imported oil products, it is possible to develop a national infrastructure that will allow for a minimum of 2 times cheaper urban mobility, zero emissions and will boost economic growth in urban environments or contribute to a systematic reduction of the local budget deficit with a tendency to generate surpluses in case of active participation of local self-government units in the ownership structure of this same infrastructure. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40510	Thank you, Your Honor. We're moving on, next up, it's Center and Glass's Club of Representatives. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, the distinguished representative of Anka Mrak Taritaš will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40511	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, this is one of those laws you don't have much to add and you don't have much to take away. This law is I call them that chamomile syndrome, it's not gonna make you feel much better when you drink, but you can't get any worse. We had this law, or this type of law in force in 2013, and we have it now. It is very simple, there are 10 articles, you have the obligations of one regulation that speaks about how we must report to the European Commission, which are our minimum objectives, and so much is that. We've got it on paper, everything's fine, and we're coming to reality now. Climate change is a fact. The city of Zagreb was a month ago the fourth city in the world by pollution, air pollution. The particles that have polluted the air, because we all know that industry doesn't have any heat and transport by vehicles. Before this great pandemic of the coronary virus, according to all studies, the largest mortality in cities was from pollution as a result of climate change. So these are some of the facts we're dealing with. This law doesn't have any dilemma at all we're going to do it, go through two readings and we're going to bring it in. We'll have him. We'll have a reporting obligation, and then we'll meet up in some trouble, and what do we do now? Otherwise, we are now in one pre-election time before the local elections when it is promised nothing. So you don't have to go at all, you can promise anything, and then the question is what can you do. So we can set ourselves unreal goals that we will never achieve or we can set some real goals and try to achieve them. I often know myself who know how to make fun of me and say, look, you can put me in one room, put me in a mat and tell me that I have to jump to the height and that I have to skip to a certain height. You can come in two years later and I'll be about exactly where you left me two years ago with a jump to high ground. I'm always talking about my example. I just don't want anything else. But if you do, and if I give myself some real goals that are real to me, then I can do it. So pure energy is something we stand for. I've been reading the Green European Plan carefully and I absolutely think there's nothing wrong with it at the declarative level. Likewise, let us see where we are and what is realistic and what we can realistically accomplish. So part of our fellow citizens has already crossed over and will move on to electric vehicles, some of our fellow citizens will move on to others, hydrogen and everything, so science is developing everything. What's our interest is that our public transport goes to it. The question is, are we ready and how can we do it and do we have enough resources to do it? So electrical energy isn't something where you make something out there and then something goes into the plug and it's full. Electricity is the same energy you produce, if you don't have enough of your own, you have to import it. So, when he's not filling his electric car out of the air, he's filling it with some kind of power that we're producing. The happiness that was for Croatia is that water, because we get most of the electricity from water and hydroelectric power plants, declared pure energy. It's not until the end. And therefore, hydropower plants, especially large lakes, change the climate of each part. Look at the space of the Varazdin County and the Međimurje County where we have an awful lot of hydropower plants, this expression I could say a lot more gently, but these lakes changed the climate of that space. And that's a fact. So, there's this plant and animal world that wasn't before, but I'm going to go somehow to another ministry that's called the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development. So you know what the problem is with electric cars? Let's get this problem over with. So the problem is the battery, or this part, where the main ingredient of copper is that we don't have that someone's importing. But that problem that we have when that electric car comes back to life, and everyone comes back to life, a waste with a battery. So someone needs to take care of that junk that's in that battery in the car. So nothing in life is black white, nothing exists only in fairy tales and stories. In fairy tales there are fairies that make a carriage with a magic pumpkin wand. We'd like to have something more of these magic sticks and make it easier and simpler, but we live in the country we live in. I think there's a few things, you know when, that's why I said it on purpose when you promise too much you can't accomplish anything. But let's make a promise. Let's do the following, that we really take care of every shopping mall when it's made that on a certain number as we've run parking spaces there must be a parking lot for people with disabilities, that in a number of parking spaces there has to be a place to charge cars and there has to be a place where you can factor that in. Let's do this assignment, let's do our homework when they're building multi-state buildings so they have a parking lot or a parking lot for more, now I'm really talking straight out of the sleeve like that famous Dr. Rukavin, when they have more than 20 parking spaces that have to be one parking spot and a possibility to charge a car. It's a task that's real. It's a task that's accomplished. It's a task that we can say after 2, 3, 4 years we now have so many places to charge let's see in a multi-state building a place to charge as much as it has increased electricity consumption, let's see how much it is for, in a shopping mall. So these are the things we can do. The things we can do and what we have in other laws that units of local self-government are obliged to rebuild their fleet, restore the rolling stock with clean, therefore in terms of energy, clean vehicles. Let's take care of the cars, the buses. So I'm always talking about examples we know. In the city of Zagreb, it is really a partially renovated rolling stock, never until the end, but then you have those big joint buses that I won't speak at all at the time of the crown, at the time of the crown is something that, I deeply believe it won't happen again and that after this, after this year's end and we split up just to talk about it with ugly memories. But you need to make sure that such a big, big, ankle bus that has an electric drive doesn't go for three people. So there's a number of things to take care of. Finally, I don't owe her any more. This bill of law is really one of those laws that you can easily support with your pure heart and say, and we have that law. The law is one story, reality is another story. What I would like to finally really and in reality see some results of all this. And let's give ourselves some deadlines, give ourselves some kind of assignments that we'll accomplish, let's make sure that, consequently, it happens in all regulations. I am, and here I will finish, I was really actively involved when the first rules on design and design were started in Croatia to enable accommodation and vehicles for disabled and hotel rooms and how long it takes. And we gave ourselves some assignments, some frames were given, some elements were given, and then it was controlled and it was secured. The time has come for us to give each other for this, and we're making sure of that. In the future we will have one handsome law, we will have such a cartoon Croatia has it, but let's turn it really into reality and reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40512	Next debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, distinguished representative Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40513	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues, we have before us a proposal for a Law on the promotion of clean vehicles in road transport. This proposal for a law in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia transposes Directive 2019/1161 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 amending Directive 2009/33 on the promotion of clean and energy-efficient vehicles in road transport. Directive 2019/1161 was created in response to the shortcomings of the Clean Vehicles Directive, its implementation in the legal order of the Member States, as well as the shortcomings in its implementation at national levels. However, the shortcomings were not enough for the commission to propose the abolition of such a tool but had been approached through Directive 2019/1161. Both Directives are extremely important since they explicitly prescribe the objectives of achieving green procurement in the particular public procurement of motor vehicles. The context of the application is extended by Directive 2018/1161 and is now covered by leasing and other means of exploiting motor vehicles but leaves Member States with the possibility of extending them to the prescribed conditions and to private service providers. The aim of the EU is to significantly reduce the emissions of transport pollutants, which are harmful to health and the environment, which can be achieved by measures that encourage the transition to public transport in public, on public procurement that promotes clean vehicles. The aim of the Clean Vehicles Directive was to encourage the market for clean and energy efficient vehicles in road transport, and in particular since this would have a significant impact on the environment, to affect the market of standardised vehicles produced in larger quantities such as passenger vehicles, buses and trucks by ensuring demand levels for clean energy efficient vehicles in road transport that would be large enough to encourage manufacturers, industry to invest and further develop vehicles with low energy consumption, CO2 emissions and pollutant emissions. These objectives are to be achieved through the procurement process, as I said. Thus, the Clean Vehicles Directive requires contracting authorities and certain operators to take into account energy effects and environmental impacts for the lifetime of the vehicle including energy consumption and CO2 emissions and emissions from certain pollutants with a view to promoting and promoting the market for clean energy-efficient vehicles and increasing the contribution of the transport sector to Community policies relating to environmental, climate and energy protection. According to the amendments presented by the Directive, the scope now refers not only to the purchase of the vehicle but also to the lease of vehicles, rentals and leases with the right to purchase, and contracts for certain services. Services covered by a directive such as public road transport services, passenger special road transport services, exceptional transport of passengers as well as special services, mail delivery, packages, waste collection services should be those in which vehicles used to provide those services enter the categories of vehicles covered by the Clean Vehicles Directive and constitute an important element of this contract. The exemption from the application shall also allow Member States to facilitate the provision of certain socially important services by means of an exemption from the application of the Directive for the procurement of armored vehicles, ambulances, funeral vehicles, vehicles of category M1 with access to wheelchairs, mobile cranes, vehicles designed and constructed primarily for use on construction sites and in quarryes, ports, airports and vehicles specially designed and manufactured or adapted to be used by armed forces, civil protection, fire departments and public order maintenance forces. The amended Clean Vehicles Directive should also not apply to vehicles specially designed and constructed for the performance of works and not suitable for the transport of passengers or goods. These vehicles shall include road maintenance vehicles such as snow poles. As regards the applicable law, this proposal introduces the obligations of the European Commission to report on the minimum public procurement objectives achieved for the share of clean, light and heavy vehicles which public procurement bonds must take into account in all public procurement procedures carried out after the second of August of this year. It also extends the scope of the law to Leasing vehicles and rentals as I said, and to implement this law there is no need to provide additional funding in the state budget, and we as individuals and society can do much to preserve the environment. Let this be our first step in this, and following all of the above mentioned Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will accept this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40514	The next debate on behalf of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, Commissioner Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40515	Thank you. Today, we discussed this bill and discussed the Committee on the Environment as an interested body. So the board itself had a proposal, so to support this bill and to go into further discussion. I will now tell the Green-Left Block Club that as a green-left party, the absolute priority is the introduction of a green public procurement model, as well as the green public procurement model in the area of transport, as well as in some other branches. I would also like to emphasise what I have already stressed in terms of the green transition that when we move into such steps it is extremely important in time to plan for all interested stakeholders to actually, and that, among other things, the carriers in this case could in time and with enough time but also enough resources to transform their business so that it fits new requirements. What I think was not well planned in these current proposals for a regulation that is going towards a green transition, and that is that we did not use the funds from the current financial perspective enough to invest in those sectors that will first go into transition. And that's a fact, it's just like that. We can still fix that by using and lagging resources from this perspective, but also particularly well planning a recovery and resilience plan where, in this sense, we need to plan funds for all those sectors that are among the first to go to certain forms of green transition and thus this transport sector. What we also think would be a good and constructive proposal that will actually contribute to reducing CO2 emissions within and public transport and classical transport is a proposal to fund the Energy Efficiency Fund that otherwise goes for the purchase of electric or hybrid cars and you are probably aware that these funds are allocated in a way that you have a competition and then you have the fastest finger, de facto model. So whoever picks up in those first seconds doesn't actually talk about minutes they get. And actually the effect of such an allocation is small. He's pointy, he's scattered. There's no concentration effect, and we're actually subsidizing, let's be realistic, citizens of greater wage powers that can afford that kind of vehicle. On the other hand, if we concentrate these funds on a separate sub-fund and with cities, especially large cities that have, for example, seasonality in transport, so there are huge increases in traffic, for example in the summer when there are more tourists and these cities that I have talked about where we have great taxi service pressure during the summer, that is why, for example, if they were to finance a certain percentage of 30, 40, 50%, 50%, 50% adds the Energy Efficiency Fund to transfer the first taxi service to clean vehicles, so primarily to electric cars. That would have a multiple effect. They would first have a concentrated reduction effect in a specific city that they could monitor and report on. This way we can't track anything because these cars you share, divide them in different parts of Croatia, all of them no effect in terms of tracking. We could follow this. Another thing if we were to go into such a project then, of course, we could also link the funds of the Energy Efficiency Fund for the construction of the infrastructure for the charging facilities, so in these cities, we would immediately create this infrastructure which, of course, is not only for the taxi service but also for all citizens. And that's how you automatically promote and encourage such, such a model of transport and among citizens because you built them that infrastructure. And what's most important, of course, is that this and that transport service could make it even cheaper because de facto fuel consumption would be reduced. If we still had chargers that were really solar chargers, and we could have them in most parts of Croatia in almost all parts as profitable, then we would have a full effect. And then from there, from that part that we see as a pilot program, we can spread it to other sectors then. And then we would actually have that true cumulative effect that we really started to switch certain parts of traffic to so-called. clean vehicles and that effect we can measure. Why is this measurement important and I always emphasize it? Because there is also a obligation to follow and report to the EU bodies. As far as other parts of public transport are concerned, we think that and in that part, so getting a vehicle for public transport must first start using therefore green public procurement, but in order to be able to re-negotiate certain preparations. We just said 31.7, right, if I'm not wrong. I think you need to be aware that our bodies in charge of public procurement are not yet being assigned to the implementation of green public procurement, yet they are not. And that's a fact. So you know how much trouble there was with even crossing the public procurement model from this lowest, lowest price criteria to the most favourable offer criterion, and that's the problem we still have in 90% of cases the lowest price criterion. And now imagine when you have, here you have the green public procurement criteria of the best offer plus these criteria have to be really carefully and well worked out in order not to be eligible, so as not to be considered to violate the rules of competition etc., etc. So, now if we want it to be 31.7 to start implementing, our bodies, we now have to organize education for all public authorities in order to do so. So our message is that we absolutely need to move in this direction, and that's why we're going to support this bill, but other bodies that don't fall into your regs need to do their part of the job parallelly. And there must be strong coordination there because if one body pops the ball as popularly as it says, and the other one doesn't follow it we won't do anything, our effect may be even more negative because people will call these competitions, and no one will contact them because they won't have the capacity to report to it or not meet the criteria, you'll have to cancel that procurement and go to the regular one. We've done nothing again, haven't we? But if we invest in the capacity of the carrier now, and the tender is going precisely for the green transformation, so they should be put inside together with plasticists who are also entering the transformation of their business because certain single plastic products will be abolished, then you should also react to put specific sectors in that competition, to finance that transition, that when they start, when the green procurement obligation takes place, they too have something to offer to be prepared. I don't think it's going to be until 31.7, and we're funding them right now because it's impossible to implement it, but let's be at peace with having a period of some kind of pilot for a year, but maybe after a year, that thing will work out then. But I say other bodies should follow that. Well, I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40516	We continue with the debate, the first debate is the distinguished representative Miro Bulj, he is gone, followed by the debate by the distinguished representative Pero Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40517	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with fellow Members, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, this bill prescribes promoting the procurement of clean and energy efficient vehicles in road transport in order to help address climate change issues, which is one of the world's major problems today. The EU's intention is to achieve climate neutrality by 2050 and become an economy with a zero net greenhouse gas emissions rate. Only the EU's total greenhouse gas transport sector has a 25% share of which 70% of the pollution comes from road traffic. Decisions proposed by law in the light of the reduction of air pollutants resulting from transport, which are harmful to human health and to the environment in order to achieve the objectives set out in this law, have been approached by the drafting of this law which transposes the provisions of the amended Directive on the promotion of clean and energy-efficient vehicles in road transport, and address the effects and deficiencies observed in the implementation of the applicable law. This bill applies to public procurement obligations, extends to its scope in relation to the applicable law, to vehicle lying, to rental and rental with the right to purchase vehicles, and to contracts for certain services. The Directive has set minimum objectives for public procurement of clean vehicles that need to be achieved at Member State level in accordance with their economic capacities of course and the exposure to pollution. Thus, the share of clean light vehicles in the total number of light vehicles covered by contracts for Croatia is 18.7% and the share of heavy vehicles is 6% and 27% for buses. The Minister of Economy will prescribe the EU's reporting obligations to the minimum objectives in public procurement procedures for road transport vehicles. The beginning of this public procurement is August 2nd, 2021. This is in the current situation of economic and pandemics a little too short to start adjusting to some public procurement bonds is very difficult because they have a lot of problems in their business and in their rolling stock. There's not a single clean vehicle ready for this supply. In particular, this applies to buses and bus carriers currently in major trouble and almost 99% of their vehicles do not meet the required criteria. The implementation of unclean vehicles requires large investments and increased economic activities that are now here due to the pandemic drastic reduction, and the introduction of a public service that we have already talked about today on this earlier point on the amendments to the Road Transport Act will in the long run solve the sustainable model of public transport financing of passengers, and bus carriers will be able to achieve the objectives of this law. I would like to note that during the debate on the parent board, a proposal has been made for the public service contract to be installed in the road transport of passengers in the share of clean vehicles to be expressed as a percentage, so I would ask the applicant to take this solution into account when drawing up the rules. I think this would allow transporters more accessible co-financing of clean vehicles from both EU funds and other credit institutions. The placing on the market of clean and energy-efficient vehicles through green public procurement will improve air quality especially in urban areas. The polluted air is one of the greatest health risks. Unfortunately, Croatia is high on the EU list of countries with polluted air, and Zagreb and Slavonski Brod are the cities ahead of these statistics. We've already passed a series of laws that try to reduce the emissions of contaminants. These laws apply to cleaner transport. So here last week we discussed the Biofuels Act for Transport, we have the Law on the Establishment of Alternative Fuel Infrastructure and today, which refers to the promotion of clean vehicles in road transport. And in order to successfully achieve a green transition, it is necessary to coordinate the implementation of this eco-pack of laws, for example, to keep in mind that we have no more electric vehicles than we have chargers on the market. And I think the application of this law will contribute to the creation of the objectives of the European Green Belt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40518	Two replicas. She's the first to be respected representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40519	Thank you, Vice President. A respected EU counterpart aims to achieve a level of air quality that does not endanger human health. That's what you said in your debate and of course you said that traffic was one of the air pollutants. The EU has been providing huge resources in appropriate research for the last ten years as a whole, encouraging the rapid expansion of infrastructure, but currently using very few electric cars. And in the last year, only one and a half percent of the total number of vehicles sold is electric. Do you think that greater support, better infrastructure could increase the number or contribute to increased purchases of electric cars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40520	I thank you for the replica. Well, here's a respected colleague, so now electric cars are only subsidized through the Energy Efficiency Fund, and that's with the money that's being collected by penalizing those entities that don't put enough biofuels on the market in the sale of fuel for vehicles, and that's some of the 260 million kunas, and that's basically all the resources available that participate in it. We know that the fastest finger is the way it's being deployed which is probably the only maybe model now that there's so little money, but certainly you should work on other incentives but also on what both colleagues and colleagues have talked about before me. So we need to build infrastructure within cities, within municipalities and on our highways so that people decide to buy these vehicles themselves. You see here today, and these vehicles also have some prices available to our market.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40521	The next replica is the esteemed representative Ankica Zmajić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40522	Thank you. Dear Vice President, esteemed colleague Ćosic. You said that the state of Croatia is high on the EU list of countries with polluted air, while the city of Zagreb and the town of Slavonski Brod are ahead of statistics. How to finally start solving the problem of air pollution in our Slavonski Brod and how much this law will contribute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40523	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. Unfortunately, Croatia is, I think, somewhere third in the polluted air in the Republic of Croatia, but as far as air pollution is concerned in Slavonski Brod, it is a complex issue that has been addressed for many years, i.e. trying to solve. What was, therefore, at the beginning of the primary, and that is the impact of the refinery in the Bosnian Ship is now somehow solved in that part. The refinery no longer works, so the impact is reduced, but the air in Slavonski Brod is polluted. So we need to access this draft action plan. So the city must develop an action plan, record all contaminants, their impact on the polluted city of Slavonski Brod and start applying this action plan to reduce, to reduce this pollution or eliminate one contaminant at a time. Traffic must be one of the contaminants. This part will certainly contribute because we know that 27% of the bus in the next 5 years must be, in public transport, on this clean energy, and by making these chargers and everything that those environmental fuel infrastructures will certainly contribute to air pollution.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40524	Final debate on behalf of the promoter, Honored Secretary of State Tomislav Mihotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40525	Thank you. I'll just point out a few things that were discussed. The decarbonisation of the transport sector must be accelerated and therefore, by the middle of the century, the emissions of greenhouse gases and pollutants resulting from transport will have to be on the path of total removal. Without delay, the aim is to significantly reduce the emissions of transport pollutants, which are harmful to health and the environment, which can be achieved by measures that encourage the transition to public transport and public procurement promoting clean vehicles. The promotion of clean vehicles should be carried out in parallel with the further development of public transport, as this is a way of reducing traffic congestion and, consequently, reducing the emissions of harmful gases and improving air quality. This Directive 1161, which further strengthens the share of zero CO2-emission vehicles by the European Commission, aims to achieve ambitious CO2 zero emission targets for all EU members, so-called Emission zero by 2050. The obligation applies only to public procurement obligations, and these obligations are that, the minimum public procurement targets for the share of clean heavy vehicles by the '25s 6% are for truck transport, by the '30s 7%, for buses by the '25s 27%, until the '30s 38%. The share of light vehicles is the same in public procurement until '25 18.7% and by the 1930s also public procurement for clean hydrogen vehicles and electricity is defined only for gas vehicles because gas is also considered a pollutant. Otherwise, as far as the goals we've achieved are concerned, we have over 50 power stations in the HAC-controlled network transport sector. Both directions towards the sea A1 and A6 are optimally represented with auto chargers, while the HAC is working on raising the service and is expected to reach these targets soon on the A3. The law establishing the infrastructure for alternative fuels and the national framework, national framework policy, are those that define the number of charge stations in certain roads, highways, cities, etc., and the measures implementing the national policy framework are implemented by the Environmental Protection Fund. That's the main thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40526	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40527	Your Honor, thank you, Mr. Chairman. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State, allow this to end. Speaking of promoting the use of clean and energy-efficient vehicles in road transport, I have to ask you something, and don't consider it a populist issue, but rather very simple. Citizens of this country often bother and view the excessive amount of official vehicles or vehicles they use as most often said by politicians. So let me, and I'm sure we agree that the state should set an example in that. So, to break up more of those very bad media inscriptions in which some community chief or whoever is looking for a car is precisely defined and a feature of 3.5 thousand cubics, 8 cylinders, let's show an example of why the state is not going to purchase an electric vehicle for its officials. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40528	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40529	Well, we're definitely going in that direction because what I'm saying means the share of light vehicles going into public procurement also applies to those public vehicles used by both the state and the municipalities and the cities. Therefore, they too will be bonds, and we will ask them to meet those obligations.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40530	We've exhausted the full debate with this. He's closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We are going to the next item of the agenda: Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Security Protection of Maritime Ships and Ports, Second Reading, P.Z.E. 83 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172 in conjunction with Article 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Secretary of State Tomislav Mihotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40533	The Honorable Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives and representatives of the current Law on the Security Protection of Maritime Ships and Ports shall apply to Croatian ports in which ships in international navigation agree. In accordance with that law, the port administration or the concession authority of the port of special purpose shall be responsible for the security protection of such port in so far as it relates primarily to the obligation to draw up an assessment and plan for the security protection of the port or port of operational area and to the application of the measures set out in the safety protection plan. The design of port security assessments and plans shall be carried out by recognised port security organisations. Those laws also create the conditions for the application of Regulation (EC) No 725 of 2004. The European Parliament and the Council of 31 March 2004 on strengthening the safety protection of ships and ports and Directive 65/05 has been transposed into national legislation. The European Parliament and the Council of 26 October 2005 on strengthening security protection. Following the inspection supervision carried out by the European Commission during the period from 18 March 2019 to 22 March 2019 in the Republic of Croatia and concerning the application of the pre-mentioned Regulation of the EC Regulation No 725 of 2004 and the provisions transposing Directive 65 of 2005 to Croatian legislation, it has been concluded that appropriate amendments to the Law on the Safety Protection of Maritime Ships and Ports should be made in order to ensure that all ports covered by the law must, without exception, have made safety assessments as required by Article 6(1). It's a directive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40534	There's a club debate coming up. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Most. Representative Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40535	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, here is another colleague and colleague, the directive, implementing the Port Protection Directive, protecting who knows everything, but I would once again point out that it is not enough to attribute the directives primarily those that are essentially unachievable. I'm much more interested in the matter of ports, ships, the protection of our sea, our port protection, environmental protection, that would be the first question. And the second question of the impact of our ports on, currently on the meaning of our Adriatic and preservation means shipbuilding. We in total at this moment when we watch what happens to our shipbuilding with Brodotrogir, where we have ports and shipyards, however, but the fact that we have brought this down at the bottom by copying the directive, and only by mentioning ports and protecting the ports in the regulation, I don't think we contribute much because in reality when I look, here's the mention of Brodotrogir, you're from that area, 2 billion kuna we give, we don't produce ships, but Danko Končar has sat there Medena and he restores Medena. He cares about shipbuilding, he cares about the ports, about our ports while, of course, in our ports, it's ecological, for example, here we come to think of not so long ago, not so long ago, and now in the port of Gaženica, where billions of ships have been invested, and the faecal cruises of water into our Adriatic. So this directive and everyone we've mentioned today about road vehicles, about this conservation of the environment and road subsidies, all three of these laws are essentially directives, regulations that I don't know, I don't really know why we're even discussing this. You could have prescribed that, here's a colleague who will.../incomprehensible/... president of the board, I was in the past term, how much we discussed these topics, how much we talked about these topics, and in fact Croatia lost what it had. The big impact on the port, the big impact on shipbuilding, we were world-renowned. In fact, now that we're in the EU, it's like we're missing, it's like lemon and it's like it's like it's just us. Which are the reasons why the ministry should be able to say what's going on. And only in infrastructure as infrastructure as infrastructure as the obligation of this ministry I mean to say, I'm glad that the Secretary of State is here, but I'd like to see the Minister of the Environment, I know that now, Minister of Transport, I know that this one is in, that this one, in order to make the river, is a little under the auspices of the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister.../incomprehensible/... has been kicked, warned. My colleague Bacic, too, I think he noticed that he knows a little minister of the prime minister kicked so I'm sorry I don't see him here because I have questions about the infrastructure. Not only this topic we're talking about, but also about the infrastructure in Dalmatia in Split-Dalmatia County, because he promised 4 years ago that we'd invest 2 billion kunas in road infrastructure, and when I talk about it then I'm talking about very important things that mean a lot to the ports. We have a port in Split, and unfortunately we have more and more empty islands, not islands as islands, but we have a whole backwater. Therefore, I expect that you will achieve the honourable secretary of state everything that has been promised, and not only now in pre-election time and not only in the county to come there, the mayor paints other leaders, but that you will actually start to work, do what you promised us in Split. Four years ago in the government, two billion kunas of infrastructure investment and a port of two billion kuna so far in four years until now zero kuna. Now it would be good to hold the same session again, so I suggest you promise the same infrastructure again for the next four years or until the next election. And that would be the best and clearest message to the people. But I'll be brief one more time. It is not enough to rewrite directives and regulations. And it's not enough to talk about infrastructure just through these articles in these proposals. The directives were neither ordered nor ordered. They're the frame we have to deal with. But please one more time. I call you once again what you have promised to do in the area mainly of our ports, our Adriatic because absolutely nothing happens here except in the pre-election time where we see maybe you will go cutting ribbons, now you will go tour all that together. But the investment is very low. The only thing we have big investments is the port of Gaženica in which a colleague Dretar was invested, you know how much? Two billion kunas with access road, the port of Gazenica in Zadar. Do you know how long they rented it for 20 years? At 20 years, it was rented 2 billion kunas, so I repeat. They rented it for 30 million per 20 years, kuna, which means we pay a million and a half kuna a year for the entire port of Gaženica. You know how much it's invested in that infrastructure. So pay a little attention to these things, and that seems to me to be the Turkish owner. We gave them management, and the Croatian state invested so much money. So once again, keep your promise on infrastructure and ports and transport. Today's three laws are so pointless because you didn't do anything in Dalmatia exclusively in my county zero kuna, zero kuna secretary of state. This must be witnessed both by my colleague and county councilman and by Vice President Ante Sanader here. The only way in is this road from Vucevica, and that's where Ante Sanader knows he's from that myst to the tunnel he doesn't have. It was made in Dalmatia, i.e. It wasn't made, it was put in 40 million. And that's the secretary of state since you know that end of the four tape means you wouldn't, like, four Vucevica tapes. And by the way, I'm afraid there's not a lot of lights in Wolf's Landing. I'd like it to be light, but mostly there's no one decent or ringing noon. Unfortunately, I speak, I repeat. That's what politics did. 40 million kuna. I hope that you will make for the Chetish end of the vertical, that you will make for our islands, that you will make for the Imotian landscape, that you will make for the Vrgorak end of what you promised. We've been talking about directives all day. You didn't even try to bring it. What you're going to bring and promise people empty stories. Once more loud and loud, I must order. Keep what you promised four years ago in Split. There is not a single buffer in the area, you from the Ministry of Transport, Oleg Butkovic. I'm not allowed to call him much, and I repeat it again in the impassionation of Prime Minister Plenkovic. I felt a little bit, and I feel sorry for him. Now, if he's got his eye on that spot, maybe he's got his colleague Sanader as a traffic minister, so maybe he'll come as well. I have no idea who threw it. Now who's got his eye, but I can see he's in awe of mercilessness. Now I have no idea. He's so cute, he knows how to promise nice, neat promises and nice and cute with a smile on his face, cold, dead cold but he can laugh. It's not enough for people to smile, it's not enough for fun. And I have nothing more to say. Here's to keeping the promises you made and calling the minister once to come, to encourage him to come here to the assembly, in front of us Parliamentarians. Because he turned down the amendment to the knot once, so I asked him if he knew if it was Cress for the road. So you see, so ask him, and let us know if he knows where the knot is, but then he looked at me with a faint eye, as he refused the amendment, he was not then familiar. Well, here it is, you're out of it, and you're out of it, you're familiar with the knot, and at least let it solve that road. There's two holes on the state road. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40536	Thank you. A very inspired debate on the safety protection of maritime ships and ports. We could have learned a lot. But here comes the next Club of Representatives of the Homeland Movement, the esteemed representative of Davor Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40537	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. We'll be quick and clear, since this is what we've been through, and our board, on which we've absolutely all agreed on this. We have nothing else to say but what we once again respected Mr. Coric and a colleague from the board discussed once more. But, of course, it's not in our jurisdiction, but it's in the jurisdiction of someone who's going to do a security assessment of the port, or an assessment of the port's security protection. Just to remind ourselves that new times have come, and that it does not necessarily and exclusively need to prepare the port's security protection against a possible terrorist attack or any security threat by physical means, but of course, there is also the possibility of today so-called. hacker or electronic attacks, cyber attacks that may cause certain security threats. So, what we discussed on the board is that companies that are working on security plans still don't have cybersecurity departments, so I would also ask the Honorable Mr. Secretary of State and all those who will participate in the preparation of some future legislative proposals, or the law itself, to naturally consider including in the legal procedure protection against cyber attacks which is simply today absolute and we can freely say a very dangerous threat. In all other matters, as regards these dealings, ships and all other matters, the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club sees absolutely no problem and we will, of course, support this proposal in the vote. Since I still have a lot of time, I'm just going to say that at the moment Dinamo is leading one zero. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40538	Okay. Congratulations, Dinam. The next debate is SDP's Club of Representatives, distinguished representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40539	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I'm glad Dinamo wins, but since I'm from Rijeka, it doesn't mean much to me. Let us therefore return to the subject, and this is the final proposal for a law amending the Law on the Security Protection of Maritime Ships and Ports. This is about harmonising the law. In my first reading, I also debated on behalf of the club. I've been asking certain questions. One was related to harmonising the very legal property of Europe with another article, so which speaks of a temporary exemption where I simply wanted to see if we were fully harmonised. I accept fully this part that is related to the argument acontrario. And the second question was whether the deadlines could be shortened. I think we've been given this debate and on these raised issues we've received extremely high quality answers so that the SDP will support these amendments to the law. However, I would like to say something about the ministry's work itself. So, as high-qualityly prepared and done as possible, we had a nice couple of readings. We here have a agenda point that today is dedicated all day long if we exclude tourist guides is dedicated to the PEU, so the laws that are related to the takeover of the European acquis. Since the proposal for a law amending the Road Transport Act, the proposal for a law on the promotion of clean vehicles in road transport where all is, so today is de facto day of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications. A man would expect to be a minister here on behalf of the promoter. If he's not here, it's because he has more important jobs. Or to have some important meeting in Brussels that would still give us money from European projects to be received, but also have a meeting with the prime minister or the government, etc. But that is not the case. I would like to commend here the representatives of the promoters present here, but our minister is not here for any other reason because he is in Rijeka today in my city, so that he will tour the construction site of a road called D403. And now the question is what's more important. For this reason, it is evident that the minister is in the campaign even though he is not a candidate. I'm sorry it's not here to compliment this part that's about these amendments to the law, but it's not here. Why is he in the river? Why is he going to the construction site today? Since he's from my neighborhood and I know him very, very long he may not even blame himself, but he has a very hollow protocol, an extremely hollow protocol. Because in that protocol, for example, it is regularly called as last week by my fellow parliamentary representative from my neighborhood, Gary Cappelly. He got a call today, but at least he didn't show up and answer that call. Why? Because the parliamentary representatives of others from this region such as his colleague, Boric, were not invited, nor was my little one invited, nor was anyone else. So now I don't know if our minister has to teach the protocol how to do and what home education is, or if the protocol itself has to teach the minister that it's his turn to propose certain things in the House, in what is the House of Commons and which makes laws in the Republic of Croatia whether it's more important or to walk around a construction site. And that's what disappointed me. Otherwise, I had a very positive intention to talk about both this and the previous points of the agenda. This is really disappointing. My interpretation is very subjective, that Zagreb probably broke it. I used to think he was much more correct than he was today. The question of home care is, when you come to an official visit to contact your host. You're not going into someone else's house without an announcement. Here is a long time ago, Minister Nada Murganić and I were opening a kindergarten in Opatija without a problem as well. The county did not participate much, but we met because there was a home education at the time Mrs. Murganic. Unfortunately, there is no such thing as an election today. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40540	The next debate is on behalf of HDZ MP Branko Bačić's Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40541	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, the esteemed Assistant Minister, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. There are no ministers, no respected colleagues and no colleagues. We are discussing a final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Safety Protection of Maritime Ships and Ports. So since we talked about this point during the first reading, and in the meantime, as far as I've seen, there were no changes to the first reading, I can repeat a few words that touch these issues, which in the world at the level of the international maritime organisation became interesting after in 2001 the aircraft crashed Twins buildings in New York, after which at the level of the United Nations launched a number of activities to preserve human lives from the threat it poses, may represent certain traffic from aircraft, railways, ships, etc. So, the international maritime organization has set out to produce an international document that will prescribe certain measures to make human lives safer and more life-saving than possible threats, so, if you want to, from ships flying into ports. In this respect, the International Convention was adopted, and later the European Commission adopted with its documents such a single solution as to speed up certain procedures defined by the International Maritime Organisation. On the basis of these acts, we already adopted the Law on the Safety Protection of Maritime Ships and Ports, Ships and Ports in 2004 and changed it on several occasions in order to pass a new Law in 2017, and now we are changing it again. What is important to say is that this Law provides for the obligation of port administrations, which operate the ports open to public transport, to make an assessment of the security protection of the port and the plan of measures also for ships, to assess safety protection and assessment as well as a plan for certain measures in the event of an individual threat. This amendment changes this basic law, given that we have prescribed in our Law certain exceptions that certain ports in which there are less than 12 in-houses do not have to do this administrative and technical project and documentation annually, and in order to simplify and reduce the costs of those same ports were not obligations. However, as you can see, the Commission has also ordered that all ports, regardless of the number of landings and the number of landings, are subject to safety protection assessments. As for ships, Croatia seems to me to have about 35 ships sailing in international navigation that must make such safety assessments and what is important for our ports and for our ships there are in Croatia companies that can do it, when it comes to ships, that is the Croatian Register of Ships, which is positioned as one of the capacitated companies that are also at Europe level, and the worlds are doing these jobs and can do such jobs. What is more important to say is that this is the Ministry, the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport, the sea, transport, infrastructure is extremely good at carrying out activities when it comes to the positioning of Croatia as a maritime state. And therefore you would not agree with my predecessor, Mr. Fabianic, when speaking of Minister Oleg Butkovic's work from this pay phone like this. The team more today, as far as I have information, Mr. Butkovic was in Rijeka and was not there as Mr. Fabianic said, he was there on a project run by Croatian roads, which project is very important for, not only for Luka Rijeka, not only for the Primorje-Gorski County, it is one of the most important projects for the port system, and therefore for the very Republic of Croatia. I've been Mr. Fabianic, president of the Port Authority of Rijeka for many years, and when we and the World Bank established the Rijeka project... where the construction of the port D404 was built between numerous projects and the construction of the Zaleba coast and the construction of Brajdice which was completed, built, before, and now, today, the colleague Butkovic was on a tour of the works, if I am not mistaken, building the road D403. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] A very important project for Rijeka, a very important project for the Primorje-Gorski County. A project worth 520 million kuna, it's a very large investment. Not only that, when we talk about this aspect of the work of this ministry, then I would say that this Ministry, which the proposer of this Law, has shown very much to the realization of a number of projects financed by the European Union. So since we are talking about ports, I fully agree here with the Ministry's views that in these few years there is really a Renaissance on the Croatian coast, when the issues of building ports and ports, only in my Dubrovnik-Neretva County, this Ministry is financing through the European Funds' funding at this time 9 ports worth 750, 100 million euros, 750 million kuna. And this is a large part of the merit of the competent Port Administration of Dubrovnik-Neretva County, but the merits of the port administration are primarily in the preparation of the project, but it is necessary to present all these projects at European Commission level, at the level of the European Funds, that they amount to and finance from the multiannual financial framework. I therefore believe that this is an exceptional engagement of the Ministry, when it comes to the realization of a number of projects in the port system in the Republic of Croatia, which, I say, the port system is partly dealing with this problem. To talk about a very important segment of the Croatian economy, we are talking about ports through which more than 35, 36 million passengers go through each year and when, and when we talk about freight traffic, more than 21 million tonnes. So, Croatia is now slowly and when it comes to the transport of passengers records since transport on the Adriatic has been established, and it is approaching in one year when the crisis has resulted in a significant decrease in transport by the pandemic of the Corona virus, including the transport of ships, it also records very high levels of transport in both the Rijeka Luka and Split, both in the city and in the city of Šibenik and in other ports open to the public traffic of freight. Therefore, all of this should be served, all of this should be organised, and there is also a Port Administration which is the holder of these activities in terms of port management, so that this Law is very important from that point of view in order to position the port as an organised and good port and which can then meet the conditions laid down by international conventions and also in these European Union Directives. Finally, we will support such a proposal of the Law and in the section relating to the amendment of members of the composition and members of the Committee which define and approve the assessment of the security protection of the port itself, the inclusion of a mandatory member who comes from the Port Captain, who is under the authority of Mr Orlic, as assistant minister on the one hand and on the other hand, the clear mandatory participation of members of the Committee who come from the Ministry of the Interior. Here in this sense, as I said, we at the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support such a law, i.e. amendments to the Law on the Security Protection of Maritime Ships and Ports, as the Government has proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40542	The following are individual debates. First is Representative Miro Bulj. He's gone. Next discussion, individual. Dear representative Danica Baričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40543	Thank you very much, Vice President, thank you. Honorable representatives of the Ministry. Here is today's Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Safety of Maritime Ships and Ports, which regulates the safety protection of merchant ships intended for maritime navigation and port areas intended for their landing or anchoring. Obligations of the authorities of the state administration, the company, port administrations, concessionaries, recognised security protection organisations and other natural and legal persons responsible for security protection, security measures, ship and port safety protection procedures, surveillance of the application of security protection measures and maritime offences, and in order to ensure safety protection of maritime vessels and ports in the event of a security threat or event that threatens safety. In these amendments, the possibility of exempting any port, or port operational area to which the same law applies must have an assessment of security protection, and in order to ensure the uniform application of common safety standards, for all ports of the internal market of the European Union, including the Republic of Croatia. The Law of Legal Security further provides for the provisions which define the composition of the Commission of the Ministry, which act on the basis of the provisions of the same Act, in a way that accurately determines its composition depending on the tasks it performs, in a given, or at a given time. The composition of the Commission shall be prescribed, depending on the tasks it carries out, whether it is approving an assessment or plans of port security, and now there shall be a representative of the Port of Port of Port, as the home representative best knows all relevant facts relating to the port of which the assessment or plan is approved, and any factors affecting better ship security in international navigation, the protection of all passengers and vehicles shall know best what maritime traffic is and how it affects the implementation of port safety. In view of all, it can respond in a timely manner and warn of any deficiencies in the port, in whose jurisdiction is the Captain as well as a better connection with port administrations, whether state or county. This may also be a prerequisite for the co-operation of port captains and port administrations in the implementation of the security of our ports. Therefore, it is also noted that members of the same Commission do not have the right to compensation for work in the Commission, so that the implementation of this Act does not require additional financial resources in the State budget, and following a new definition of the composition of the Committee of the Ministry which operates under the same Act will contribute to stronger legal certainty and clear and legal text expressions. In addition, in the amendments to Article 7(6), the number of ports for which an assessment or a plan of port security will be made, or none of the port operational areas, will no longer be excluded from the European Maritime Safety Standard regime, with which the Republic of Croatia shall be placed on the side of the world and European ports, which, without any apprehension, receive ships with standards at world level. I therefore consider this Final Proposal to be of high quality to ensure that all ports covered by the Law, without exception, have made safety assessments of maritime ships and ports, and to ensure equal application of common safety standards for all ports of the internal market of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40544	An individual debate. Dear Representative Erik Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40545	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm not a fan of the punch under the belt, but there's one thing we need to say. The state receives a one-third income from the county port administrations. When it comes to ports of special purpose or port administrations like those of Rijeka, income is 100%, 100%. And that's the country's arrival. So, a third of the county's port administrations plus a 100% income that is related to what state port administrations are. And that's okay. So, and what you get from maritime goods, cities, municipalities, the county order is to return to the maritime well-being. It's time for them to return to the naval well-being. Let those 10, 20% of the money then receive money from the European Union, where there are finished projects. Where there are finished projects. And these are the funds with which we can invest in that part, and we have to have finished projects, we can get that part that's part of the grant. Someone's doing that, and someone's investing in that section that's spatial-planning documentation, so property-legal relations in the one where we have three levels of spatial order, so everyone's given something to all three levels. All three levels. And then it's impossible that what the French would say, we act like... or what they would say in Croatia, as a village gege to go around construction sites and say that's my money, I gave it to you. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not working. It's not working. Especially if we're from the Primorje-Gorski County, which, by the way, pays in the State budget a billion kuna a year more than what it gets back. And that's fine by me. Because we're one country. We're one country, but I'm saying, I'm only talking about raising. And now I'm going to say something that's better, don't get me wrong, so I don't move on. One of the things that is also related to the maritime well-being and that rebirth of port administrations and ports is about, to apologize for one place where one person has a guesthouse and you see right there, the project was realized. Right there, playing the case. But then after the minister attacked, then he said, no, he didn't say, I had nothing to do with it. The Ministry gave money, the project is county and I'll stop there. Thank you. Is there a replica?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40546	Next is an individual debate, MP Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40547	I thank you, Mr Vice President, for your honor of the Secretary of State, and for your help, there is no minister. It came to pass, during the debate on the Law that we are discussing to keep on the subject. But apparently the previous debate was completely out of the question, so I would like to complete one mistake that was made that day. It is not the revenues of the port, concessions in the port area, which is under the management of the port administration, the income of the State budget or the unit of local self-government, or the unit of regional self-government. It is the only income of the port administration, colleague Fabianić, it is a mistake for you, you don't even have to know it. The revenue from the concession is shared where it is not floored, where the space is not concentrated under the management of the port administration, it is very important and that part is then divided into three parts, state, county and local budget. But you know what? If these funds were to be the sole financial basis for maintained port infrastructures, which is otherwise one of the most expensive infrastructure projects and investments in the sea, the maritime infrastructure would not have been built much in Croatia, not only because another large part of Croatia's maritime goods is not concentrated, which, on a large part of that maritime goods, is not the limit of maritime goods established, so it cannot be concessioned, but simply because such expensive projects as port infrastructure cannot be financed. So, without intervention with the resources that the general tax revenues were at the county level, either at the level of units of local self-government, but above all 90% of the State budget, we could not maintain, not build new ports, we could not build or maintain existing infrastructure, not even with State budget resources we could not enter into such large projects that work in Croatia in port infrastructure. We can do this right now, so I told you that there is a renaissance on the Croatian coast because almost 85% of all investments in the port system in Croatia are financed by the European Funds. And given our percentage of investments of around 15%, these 15% in 95% of cases, these 15% are the sole funds of the state, i.e. through State budget, or ultimately by taxpayers. And it's good that it is, because investment in port infrastructure is one of the most profitable economic investments. According to the studies made for ports that are heavy freight traffic, it is determined that for every dollar, every euro and every kuna that enters the port system and passes through... What we call it, and that is the port concessionaire who provides a service, 20 kuna, EUR or dollar goes into the entire system that is attached, based on the port system. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] Whether it's agents, freighters, railway trucks, any kind of traffic, and all those who lean on the arrival of the ship, of which one dollar, one kuna or euro, those 19 of those same units come true because of the port system, and that's why all the strong countries in the world have strong ports. There is no strong state without strong port, and therefore investment in road D403, which is visited today by the minister, where we are talking about 520 million kuna, which will make Zagreb coast one of the best coasts on the Adriatic, and I would not say on the Adriatic, but one of them, given the depth of the berth on the Zagreb coast, is one of the most attractive ports here in the Mediterranean is a huge project for Rijeka. This is by building the D404 road which connects Brajdica and D403 with which we connect the Zagreb coast, Rijeka port has opportunities it has never had before. And that's why today going to the D 403 road tour is a really big event, I think we should welcome it personally, which I have been very much in this sector, it's important to come to the Croatian Parliament, present the laws, but building this project is a long-term great potential for Rijeka, Rijeka port and the Primorje-Gorski County.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40548	Time. We have one replica. Dear Representative Erik Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40549	... Corrected by me, I will only remind you of one thing, because you mentioned the same important project for the City of Rijeka, which is the D404, so I would just say one thing, that the City of Rijeka financed the road, because the state had no money, and in fact it was a state project, because Luka Rijeka is not a river story, but it's a state story because it's in the interest not only of Croatia, but of the whole of Europe, or at least of its central part, so just reminding me that when it comes to financing that it's not all the way Mr Butkovic shows. [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40550	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40551	Mr. Fabianic, I was inaugurating that today visiting D403 minister is practically on the road run by the Croatian road, you said that he was in the guest house, that he came to the host, I said that he is there and in the role of the host since he is the owner of the investment. The D404 road was not financed by the City of Rijeka. The D404 road has been financed from the World Bank project, whose credit return obligation is the Port of Rijeka, the total amount of that loan is 155m euros from that project was built D404, but clearly, since it passes through the City of Rijeka that there was also a contribution from the City of Rijeka, but it is primarily what I said, so it is done from the World Bank project.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40552	You'll have to finish on behalf of HDZ. Here is the final debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, distinguished representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40553	I'll use it as a short replica. Because everything you said, however, the money was late, because I was a city councilman and voted D404 funding because the state had no money at that time, no matter how much it was solved. But there was synergy, as there must be synergy. But since we have synergy then we have to act like the responsible people and politicians, whether we have local elections or not. But I know what I voted for.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-18-0.u40554	Nothing, okay. Here, we've exhausted the debate with this. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We'll continue tomorrow morning at 9.30 with a statement on the amendments. Good night, everybody. The seat ended at 20.50 hours.
