ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u42761	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I'll do it in accordance with article. 226 century 2 of the Rules of Procedure propose a supplement to the agenda 7. They're sitting down with five new points. This is: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code with a Final Proposal for the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 147. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Mandatory Relations, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 148. Proposal for an Additional Jobs Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 149., this is Proposer Marko Milanović litre. Annual report on the work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development for 2020 and 5. A report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2020. The proposal for a supplement of the agenda was submitted by electronic means, art. The 227 Rules of Procedure set out firstly to decide on a proposal to adopt an individual law by an urgent procedure. Art. 206 The Rules of Procedure lay down that, following an urgent procedure, laws are adopted which comply with EU documents, if requested and not voted on by the applicant, that is, point 1 of the proposed amendments. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The 206th century 1 of the Rules of Procedure states that this legislative proposal is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. How appropriate. 225 century 4 Rules of Procedure of written objections to the remaining points of addition, no proposal to supplement the agenda, I find that all the proposed items are included in the agenda 7. Sit down. Next is the House Movement Representatives' Club in the name of the respected representative Davor Dretar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u42825	Dear Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues, respected colleagues, Croatian public. At this moment, I have an open letter in my hands and this letter to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, the Prime Minister of the Government, who I will read on behalf of the Croatian Association of Cystic fibrosis. Therefore, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia we address you in front of the Croatian Association of Cystic fibrosis with the appeal that you personally engage and support the fight that medicines for 150 of this deadly disease are finally on the list of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. Namely, there have already been two meetings of the HZZO Committee on Medicinal Products without positive and concrete moves. One was May 11th, and the other was June 8th this year. It takes two months of fighting to campaign KAFTRIO The breath of life regains the importance of drugs under the names KAFTRIO... for patients mostly children, because adults are almost gone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The disease mercilessly kills them on that path and does not experience what is possible in the world today, which is living with this severe diagnosis. These medicines do not affect the cause of the disease. The first of them is already ten years in use in the world and in Europe, in neighbouring Slovenia since last year all three medicines are on the list while our patients can only look across the border and be aware of their own impotences because we are in Croatia. It is medicines whose results are unequivocally and transparently measurable in the documentation submitted to the HZZO. Lung transplant candidates after administration are removed from the list. Those dependent on a bottle of oxygen don't need it anymore. The organs no longer fail because it affects the cause and corrects the error caused by the protein and becomes functional. For now, the disease is only being treated, the life span is being shortened. Extremely high transplant costs are mainly carried out abroad. The cost of frequent hospitalisation of patients and the cost of medicinal products that only temporarily cover the holes caused by the progress of the disease. Croatia is a country where it is nice to live when you don't have a child whose life depends on someone's decision. Is it worth spending money on or we have other priorities – airplanes, cableways, bridges. No one says we have to without them, but we have to find the money for this. Croatia is a country to fight for life because it does not mean that this system will recognise itself. It's about guaranteed human rights and children's rights because, unfortunately, they're mostly children. Children's rights are guaranteed by documents of both the UN and the EU and the highest acts of the Republic of Croatia. So I repeat once again on behalf of the Croatian Association of Cystic fibrosis. We appeal to Prime Minister Plenkovic to you as the most important person in the country, as the parents of two children to ask HZZO for status on the placing of Vertex Pharmaceuticals on the list. Support us in battle as we support all those suffering from this severe disease because every life saved is a decision we can be proud of tomorrow. A conscious moment, aware of the fact that Minister Beros announced the cuts in the health care, and even the removal of drugs from the list, let alone the inclusion of new ones. We will order once again as representatives of the Homeland Movement, which we fully support this open letter. Reduce corruption, set up tenders, bring the health system in order, there are the savings that you and we want, and you can rule them out. Don't spare on those most valuable human lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u42929	The next Club of Representatives will be that green-left bloc on behalf of which the respected representative Bojan Glavasevic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u42930	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It's been a week since Activist Tony Bedalov published on his YouTube channel a terrible report and agonizing in which he has exposed the nadir predators from a cult that operates on a Facebook or now on a new social network called Detox. In this report, Bedalov describes to detail the manipulative method that a network headed by a certain Helena Begenisic serves to earn money on the torture of people our health system has failed. These methods include, among other things, lysing of autistic children with chlorine dioxide. Tony Bedalov's report was transmitted by all relevant media in Croatia. It's been a week since the entire public has received detailed evidence of the alleged criminal act of surveilment and the entire series of criminal acts of child abuse and neglect. What we don't know, and we need to know is where are the institutions that should react to this, where are the police? Has anyone been arrested? Where's the Health Department? Is there any instructions for the public published, any warning that you do not enlyse your children to the chlorine for God's sake. Where are the social services? Did they react? Is any child protected from such practices? The Association of Shadows, which deals with children with autism and for their work they have received recognition of Croatia's pride, for years the public has warned about these predators, for years. The institution's reactions are still gone, and if there are, they're completely inadequate and ineffective because there's a Detox group living on a new social network, counting ten thousand members, ten thousand people living in complete belief that lysting chlorine dioxide will cure their children from autism. Ten thousand people who are because the system has failed them the victims of these manipulative predators. A country that is unable to protect children and their parents from this is not a state because the security and protection of citizens is a fundamental function of the state. That is why we call on Minister Josip Aladrovic and Minister Willi Beroš to do something urgently and to report to the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u42931	Thank you very much. That's what we'd end up with today's work. We will continue the session on Wednesday 16 June at 9:30 p.m., and the first item will be the Proposal for a Law on the electricity market, first reading, P.Z. Number 146. I wish you all a good weekend. Session interrupted at 12.28 hours. The next Club of Representatives will be that of the Centre and the Voice in the name of which the respected representative Marijana Puljak will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u43018	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, today I'm going to talk about what's here, it came out on the cover of Free Today, and that is, here's what we've ruined these days. So, the bay of Vruja, Latkovic concretes the pearl of the Adriatic. We also have Dinara, which is, so we've dug up nature park, but today I'm just gonna concentrate on the Vraj. A vervain which is a hidden Adriatic cove, a Adriatic pearl, as they call it, between Brel and Omis and which has been destroyed for 20 years. So I asked a question and I asked a representative question to six ministries, and here, we collected all the answers, and the question went like this: How do you intend to solve an illegal situation that has been going on for 20 years in the bay of Vruja under Biokov? Entrepreneur Stipe Latković, owner of the company Point, which as a concessionary, manages the bay of Vruja, has been devasting the bay with illegal construction for 20 years under Biokova. Perhaps he is known to you as the best man Stipe Mesic, friend of Ivo Josipovic, friend of Zoran Milanovic, who, a little bit, lies that he was never in this Vruja, but therefore a friend of various high-ranking politicians. So 20 years ago, he started to cramp so-called. A fire escape from the Adriatic highway to its apartments in a bay that could have been reached centuries ago only by boat from the sea. Since the very beginning of his illegal construction, they have been reported with inspections and since then ping-pong has been going on between Latkovic and state institutions. A number of solutions have been issued on banning works and removing illegal facilities in 2011, '13, 14, '17. I was in '19. Sir, but he'd complain every time and keep working, and that's how we got up to 20 years of uninterrupted construction. Note, everything he does is actually owned by the Republic of Croatia. At the end of 2018, the Split-Dalmatia County Assembly unanimously decided to confiscate the Latkovic concession on the maritime well-being of Vruja, which means that all citizens can use it. Croatian forests have jurisdiction over a certain part of the area above the bay and they have also filed applications, calculated forest damage and initiated 3 proceedings before the Commercial Court in Split, one infringement proceedings pending before the High Criminal Court and criminal charges against the police and the competent inspection. Nothing prevents Mr. Latkovic from building on. Croatian waters reported to a water law inspector. So this is a visual example of the ineffectiveness of the entire Croatian state system, all ministries, agencies, institutions and the entire judiciary. Mr. Latkovic has been mocking all of us for 20 years. So, what did he start doing this weekend? This weekend he began to pave the way for the fire road, so concrete and paved and seemed to have put himself, I guess there are these yellow, yellow ones, as it is called, strips, he put himself, a construction inspection that, whether, it would not be suspicious what he was doing and then he continued to pave the way for and concrete and in fact mocked all those, here and the journalist who is trying to get to him, Croatian, employee of Croatian forests he went out there, trying to prevent it, but Mr. clearly has friends at high functions, can ping-pong, whether, interestingly, these answers from all six ministries will be published publicly. It's interesting what the Justice Department says. So administrative and inspection controls are being carried out, and then the lawsuit brought against the Point has been filed several times, and this delay takes 60 days. Now the latest delay in the procedure was set on 11 March 2021 in time of 60 days, which is the third stalemate, therefore, trying to settle the dispute peacefully. So while the state ping-pong with it, man continues to work illegally and build in the most beautiful bay of our Adriatic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u43181	And as I announced this already two or three hours ago... As far as I'm concerned, please, let's go, let's have some more patience, we're going to be taking a stand on behalf of the representatives' clubs and independent representatives' clubs, and the first one on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club will be speaking to the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk, please. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u43182	Dear colleagues and colleagues, HS showed me confidence by choosing me as one of the two DSV members and I had no idea it would be this dynamic. For the first time in Croatian history, USKOK proposed the detention of three judges of a county court. Judges as well as representatives of HS enjoy immunity and without approval, in the event of a assembly, it is a plenary session or MIP if the assembly does not meet, and in the other case of DSV, no procedure can be initiated. This provision, at least as regards judges, has been introduced in the constitution to protect them from being prosecuted by parties who are dissatisfied with their judgments and in some way mobilizing them at least above them. Something similar happened now, so one party who was convicted struggles further for its rights in the way it believes it should, but has accused three and more judges, in this case USKOK has proposed for three, for corruption. A request came before the DSV, which for two of the three judges, in my opinion, was justified, and for one was incomplete. And in my understanding of the work of the DSV judiciary should be the defence of not only dissatisfied parties but also of the USKOK and the state's attorneys who send alibis after months of failure, as the President of the Republic called them "sympathic bear". I'd feel pretty bad if I spoke one for the MPs in HS, and the other for the judges in the DSV. Therefore, other than the parties not satisfied with the judiciary, they should also be protected from other judicial bodies which they do not wish to justify by liking the public and sending a request for detention which the investigating judge has rejected. I think it's a disgrace to the DSV that the investigating judge refuses, and that they didn't recognize, that they should have stopped and sent a message to USKOK can't do that, fix up. The DSV cannot be a mailbox, so if it was already a mailbox for the Supreme Court president because it was put into law, it was not put into the constitution in that sense. That's my point of view that I had a need to present to HS. As for the object of HDZ President who is currently the prime minister of HDZ justice, I can only say the following. Indeed, I may not be because HDZ members of the administrative courts also ruled against their claims for violation of the Law of Conflict of Interest until Plenkovic arrived. Then they changed practice. So it's more his than theirs. Because they've been convicted, and the others haven't. So the judiciary is someone's. The media are against them all the time, and let's say I remember that a single daily on Friday before the parliamentary elections, so the day before the election silence on its first seven pages, had an interview with six HDZ candidates. Then they put us out of opposition so they wouldn't mind putting us on page seven and eight. So much for the media. Croatia is amazed by the statements, so the Prime Minister has recently won a colossal victory in the elections. Croatia is a little bit already, therefore, concerned. Apparently, his ego can't take it that much anymore. They can't send ambassadors because they have to agree with someone, and they can't elect a Supreme Court president because they have to deal with someone, and now they have to share power where they lost mayors and mayors or most of them in the assembly. But that's not why it's not the media. And I call on the media to once again, so to be critics of everything that needs to be criticised, to be independent. Because the media, the independent media, the independent judiciary and the independent academic community are three pillars of society that should be and it seems to me that all three at this point can be questioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u43273	The next club of MPs will be the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Ljubica Lukacic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u43274	Thank you. Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here are a few moments ago, here at HS, we finished discussing the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Island Act. I want to point out once again an extremely important fact that touches our built with disability and children with developmental difficulties. This law regulates another right which so far has not been established in the way it was meant to be, so to show exactly who has the right to free island transport. So it is now stated in detail that the right to free island road transport has all children with developmental difficulties and all persons with disabilities living on the islands. However, what is extremely important, which is that the Government has allowed this Article to allow free island road transport and persons with disabilities and children with developmental disabilities that do not live on islands, so that 80% of those with physical damage to their lower extremities or those with developmental disabilities and persons with disabilities with Grade 3 and 4 functional damage. Of course, there are HRVIs with 100% physical damage and their escorts. So we've covered all those categories that really need free road transport. The government has made it possible for people with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties to equalise their rights. So we gradually introduce the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, so we adapt our laws to the Convention and introduce those rights that the Convention has guaranteed in its provisions. The government of the Republic of Croatia, apart from what it has done with this law, thus equating opportunities for people with disabilities to do the same to other laws. Therefore, here I would like to announce this occasion on Monday on the Committee of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for persons with disabilities, I am sure that we will establish a certificate, therefore also bring it, to agree on a certificate that will finally be able to prove our disability. This will be a confirmation that will be uniform, unique for the entire region of the Republic of Croatia so that persons with disabilities not only for this law but also for many other laws, or for all rights which will have to prove that disability will be able to obtain a certificate that will finally make it clear who is a person with disabilities and thus will be able to exercise their rights in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and from all the laws that rights regulate for persons with disabilities. It was a long-term procedure, and I'm proud that we've finally come to its end, and I want to thank all the people with disabilities for their contribution and for their cooperation. And say that here we are after a long series of years [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Finally managed to achieve one big score together. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u43275	Thank you. The next club of representatives will be the Mosta in the name of the respected representative Marija Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u43372	It's almost the end of the school year. Other school years in which teachers and teachers, professors and teachers are equally shivering students, but also their parents because this school year all equations, depending on complex sentences, physical laws, technical projects and Latin grammatical exceptions learned together. That's what the crown brought us. Parents who had to become professors and professors who shouldn't have been because they were primarily epidemiological experts. According to HZJZ's instructions, their task was to detect the callos, inhumanely isolate them, to keep an eye on the amount of disinfectants, and the content of the teaching and the possibility of its quality absorption was thrown into another plan. It's almost the end of the school year. The years in which parents are terrified in front of units and years in which students don't know who their teachers are and who their parents are. So the time has come to narrow down our accounts and tell us exactly what this school year has brought us. The NGO conducted 5 large studies related to distance teaching in the school year 2019/20. Two focused on graduates, three on teachers and parents in primary schools. Nearly 90% of graduates say that the inability to communicate directly with teachers made it difficult for them to master the material. About 80% of graduates had difficulty organising distance teaching times, and nearly 90% had difficulty with concentration. As many as 75% said that teaching distanced them required more effort than usual teaching. Nearly 80% of parents said the distance teaching required a great deal of effort from them, and more than half of them claim that children were tense due to distance teaching. And now I want to link it to a recent tragic case of a boy who drank an energy drink and died because of an undetected heart defect. And as we rightly discuss whether these drinks should be made inaccessible, no one has asked the key question, is it only a child’s disability or why children take such stimuli. Unfortunately, since I am also familyly surrounded by children of that age, and I can bear witness that their consumption has become common, partly because it is cool, something accessible, but unhealthy, semi-prohibited and therefore challenging between juice and beer, a real initial challenge to prove courage when entering the adult world. But there is one more thing, children today are under a lot of pressure from success, and sometimes they are not expected to have a career take-off, and then they're down to college selection, now the fifth-graders are crying because they're afraid that because of their hyperinflation, they also have different ways of collecting extra points that are legally allowed, but the moral question will not get into the desired high school, so they need to get stuck faster, more and more strongly, they need to be awake, they need to be stimulated. In a covid crisis where teaching mostly did not exist in a qualitative sense, so the accumulated material should only be processed, but the result was still expected to be stuck, but with little energy help. So we need to make it clear what this crisis has brought us, or at least it's potential. Children addicted to energy stimuli not only for play and prove but also for teaching obligations and children dependent on cell phones and other electronic devices which are now unable to solve simple mathematical operations because of the already serious concentration defect. In fact, until recently we could still control their stay in virtual reality because real life was more important, but at the moment when teaching passed on a line that told more children to shut down or that the Internet was unhealthy, so its use should be limited. Virtual reality is faster, more intense and more stimulating, just like the man on some stimulant, today the allowed energy, and tomorrow, faster, stronger. And now I have a key problem. Do you know that during last year's lockdown, as many as 2.4% of graduates said they had suicidal thoughts, although this percentage did not seem particularly high in this study, over 300 young people, over 90% of graduates had difficulty concentrating, more than half had difficulty sleeping. All these are data that indicate the serious psychological situation of young people, these data have been published on the pages of the National Centre for External Evaluation and sent to the ministry, the ministry has never responded. What are we waiting for? Waiting for suicidal thoughts to become suicides. Are we going to shut up as a ministry or are we going to dare face what the crown has done to our children's mental health, potentially saving lost and wounded young lives?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52392	Now we would move to the first point of today's work, which is: - Final bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Islands, second reading, P.Z. No. 87; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 85 Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia. 172 in relation to Art. 190 Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and by the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State Memorial Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52393	Appreciable MPs and esteemed MPs. I welcome all of you together on behalf of the Ministry of Regional Development. In front of you is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Island Act with the aim of creating the best possible conditions for the further sustainable development of the island by drawing up a legal framework for the implementation of the objectives and measures of the island development policy. In front of you, as I said, the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Island Act. In any event, the purpose of drawing up such an act was to improve the additional quality of the normative framework and to strike a balance between all entities and all the actors of the island development policy in order to make the implementation of measures even more effective and to become imperative for both local and regional levels. A strong island national policy level, as its main objective, highlights the sustainable development of the island through the continued use of the entire island potential in economic, technological, social and other terms. On the one hand, this policy protects the invaluable natural resources of our islands by using their potential to a measure that does not endanger a sensitive island environment, while on the other hand ensuring stable economic growth, growth and improvement of the quality of life on islands that should encourage demographic development as the ultimate goal and imperative of the island's prosperity. The Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds as the holder of the island development policy systematically implements measures, activities and projects on islands in all areas of island life, invests financial resources in the realisation of a series of capital and infrastructure projects, co-finances public island and road transport, subsidisation of water prices for the islands whose households are not connected to public water supply systems, grants small value support to island employers, implements the programme "Croatian island product", and financially supports projects, numerous projects of island associations that all contribute together, as I said, to raising the quality of life of the island population. For the period from 2016 to 2020, a total of more than 6 billion kunas were invested from national funding for measures, activities and projects on Croatian islands, while additionally from EU funds for projects on islands agreed on about 7 billion kunas from the Operational Programme for Competitiveness and Cohesion '14-20, the Operational Programme for Effective Human Resources '14-20, the Rural Development Programme, the Operational Programme for Maritime and Fisheries, and the European Territorial Cooperation Programme. These amendments and additions to the Law on Islands will address the need to supplement those provisions of the laws which are prescribed certain measures and activities, as well as the need to comply with certain provisions of the law with other regulations, and, I would like to point out, was observed during the implementation of the existing Island Act. Everything has been discussed recently in this distinguished home through first reading, but I will only briefly repeat what is in this Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Island Act and included. Amendments and additions shall primarily relate to the transposition of the provisions of the Regulation amending the Law on Islands into the legal framework which entered into force on 4 July 2020. The Regulation amends the Article. 33. In order to quickly ensure the additional quantities of water needed for human consumption at the subsidized price for island-occupied islands or parts of the settlement not connected to the public water supply system or network, the island law. Water for these settlements and these parts of the settlement is delivered either by vessels to water carriers or by car. The amount increased from 45 cubic metres to 85 cubic metres per year per island. In addition, the scope of the user is extended to new users, island employers, or economic operators operating in island settlements or parts of settlements that are not connected to the public water supply network. This measure is further regulated, and state aid is granted through a public call. Otherwise, as many as 4234 island households are included in this measure, or more than 7200 islets, for which in 2020. 17 million kuna paid. In addition, the provisions of Article 2 shall be harmonised. 11. The Islands Act, which prescribes the establishment of island urban areas, complies with the Law on the Strategic Planning and Development Management System of the Republic of Croatia, also changes the composition of the island council for the purpose of harmonising the level of representatives participating in the work of the island council. The provisions of Art. 26. The island's island development plans are subject to jurisdiction, so that the content of the island's development plan becomes an integral part of the coastal island unit development plan of regional self-government. The law also abolishes the obligation to adopt an island-based annual programme to further facilitate the functioning of the islanders and reduce administrative burdens, all in accordance with the Strategic Planning and Development Management Act of the Republic of Croatia. In order to comply with the Road Transport Act, the Authority shall be empowered to authorise the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure and the competent authority of the unit of regional self-government to implement the measures of privileged road transport and to implement the right to compensate for the costs of own transport for persons with disabilities. Given that HS recently adopted the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Transport in Road Transport by adopting this law, a legal basis has finally been created for implementing the measures of preferential public island transport under public service, which, in line with EU legislation, is very soon to be established throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia. After the first reading of the proposal of this law in HS, the Ministry for the final proposal of the law carried out the re-consultation and included some of the important and valuable proposals, especially the one that came from the Institute for Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities of the URIHO from Zagreb on the basis of which additionally arranged scope and rights of the user scope on free public island road transport. The law further regulates the implementation of the ‘Croatian island product’, which encourages island producers to produce and place on the market original island products produced from island raw materials, and also re-affirm traditional island production. The law further prescribes the conditions and procedure of granting small value support to employers who carry out economic activity on islands for the purpose of preserving jobs or starting up activities, as well as for new jobs. And in accordance with the discussion at the plenary session of HS, the text of the draft law has been included in the text of the final proposal for amendments to Art. 37. In the light of the conditions and the procedure of granting small value support to employers who carry out their activity on islands for the purpose of preserving their jobs or starting up their activities, the island law shall apply. The grant of support will also be implemented in accordance with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act. This final draft of the law is consistent with all resolution bodies, presented to authorities also regional and local levels of public administration, regional co-ordinators and the general public in the re-public consultation process in order to bring the implementations adopted in line at the horizontal and vertical level of the implementation of the island policy. Nor have the changes to the normative framework so far, nor have these amendments and additions to the laws of the island's population since 1999. By way of derogation from the first Act on Islands, they shall not be removed but shall be further extended, upgraded, improved, updated to reduce the difference in the cost of life and work and the availability of basic services on the islands in relation to land. Finally, I point out that the islands are one of the priorities of the development policy of the Republic of Croatia and are also recognized as a key area of intervention in the National Development Strategy for which the national development plan of the island is currently being developed, and are explicitly involved in the development of all planning and programming documents for the use of European funds from the Multi-annual Financial Framework for the period 2021-2027, which was not a practice in previous periods. So the islands remain focused on our action with the aim of ensuring their continued and unhindered development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52394	Thank you. We have on your presentation of multiple replicas, the first respected representative of Cappellio.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52395	Thank you very much, Vice President. State Secretary. So 24 ferry lines, 15 fast-ships, 12 classic so 51 lines, 4 billion and 300 in 2020.Crisis investments on islands that are non-refundable, which eu funds, which credit funds, I am interested in you are included as you mentioned in the amendments. 37. In the light of the conditions and procedures laid down by the island law, small-value support is granted to employers who carry out economic activity on islands for the purpose of preserving jobs. So I wanted you to explain it a little bit further, so whether it's in the figures of this, say, in 2020, that they're mentioned, whether these are special figures that are beyond that and if you have some data as much as you support this kind of support for the launch of a small entrepreneurship economy on average every year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52396	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52397	I thank you for your question. Funds allocated in 2020 For island employers are included in these amounts, this call and this way the grant of grants to island employers remains. As you have heard, the way the support was granted has been further arranged so that it will be awarded in accordance with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act, so the Resoring Ministry of the Programme will discuss the call of island employers. All those in relation to the previous legal provisions, all those eligible for granting such support, it is important not to have a seat on the island, must have their activities, their activities, their registered business on the island, and all those to whom they can grant support are their employees who are located on the island, working with the employer for at least 12 months on a continuous basis. and for them every employer can get.../Speakers speak at the same time./... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52398	The next replica of the respected representative Mark Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52399	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, the Honorable Vice President of HS. As we know the focus of the first reading was just transposing the government's regulation to raise the amount of subsidized water from 45 cc's to 85 cc's, you said that so far it's used by over 7,300 people on the islands. What are the echoes on the island council and from the inhabitants of the island to that part of the regulation? Also, if you can tell us a little something, you've also run the eu funds, or the Operational Programme of Competitiveness and Cohesion at the Ministry of the Regional Affairs, how much is invested especially for ports and port development? Former Minister Cappelli spoke of the 4.3 billion kuna ferry only last year, but it is crucial to link and provide services to ensure the equal quality of life of our fellow islanders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52400	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52401	Thank you very much for your question. So, as we said by the government regulation, has been rapidly intervened and the amount of subsidized water increased from 45 m3 to 85 per year on the island. These quantities are of course an increase in the amount is the result of the alignment and response to the needs of the islanders shown, with the fact that the amount and the figures themselves have been determined by the basis of historical data based on comparison with the European average, and then by responding to all the needs of our islanders shown. Therefore, the Regulation entered into force on 5.7.2020. And now we're transposing her into the law. As regards investments in island ports from the Operational Programme Competitiveness and Cohesion [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52402	Thank you for that in some other answer. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52403	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Respected secretary of state. I am interested, so there is a Declaration on Smart Islands that says that islands have their own speciality, but also a series of problems that exist in the islands, the main emphasis is on how to manage, the necessary infrastructure, the problem of waste management, the problem of water resolution, which is both our subject and our amendment and the addition of the law. What I'm interested in is how long has it been since it's ever been incorporated into documents that need to be on the level of the Republic of Croatia, but then I'm interested in specific activities? These activities are first and foremost that we can manage the data we have because based on this data then you can do something further. Some things won't be possible, I think we've discussed them on a committee. If you need to bring water for a family, we're aware that we won't, but we need to know where we are, which we are so we can manage the islands wisely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52404	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52405	I thank you for your question. You're right, that's what we discussed on committees. Smart islands as a goal and investment priority are thus explicitly listed in the National Development Strategy. It is therefore currently in the design and final phase of the development of the National Plan for the Development of the Island where some of the priority activities will be further elaborated and further articulated. All of this is also a prerequisite for a phase where we are currently in the vision of programming for the next multi-annual financial framework where a concrete amount of alocation will be set for investment in islands, priority investments and the priority goal is, one of them is smart island management, and all of these will be agreed with representatives of the island. So far, a base of some 900 projects and project ideas has been collected in line with the islanders who will then be additionally articulated through multiannual financial documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52406	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52407	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Your Honor, ma'am. Secretary of State, here's a question regarding the article. 36.a. which is added to this proposal. Therefore, the conditions for granting the grants referred to in St. 1. are not specified for a particular one, whether it is an association, an association of associations, a cooperative alliance or a tourist community, if they are allowed to apply for support only on the island where they are registered, if we know that during the most frequent summer, we have many different events on other islands, so I think there is only art.36a. It is not clear, perhaps, that we should allow them to participate in other islands because this article does not explain at all or not to allow them to simply go to other islands where they are not registered other than their own.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52408	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52409	Thank you for your comment. Yes, we will look at where it is, in which part it is necessary to further clarify this article. But the island manifestations are not held only on the islands. Island producers may report for participation in events either on their island, or on another, or on land. We support it all, the program defines it, then they answer the call and they get grants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52410	Next replica of the respected representative Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52411	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, here's an article. The 13th Amendment of this Act has been amended by an article. 31. and thus enable people with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties throughout the Republic of Croatia, therefore not only to islanders, but also to those who do not have a residence on the island to have preferential or free public island transport. This is why I thank you because the government thus sends positive messages to all persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia in a way that equalises their opportunities and thus respects and implements the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities because here we are harmonising this law with the Convention. Thank you very much for that and for this positive message.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52412	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52413	Thank you for your comment. As you know so far, it has been implemented as a special measure to subsidise costs in island public transport through our ministry. It will now be in line with European standards in the direction of the Regional Self-Government Units Resoring Ministry. As far as I can tell, yesterday's decision was made and taken to the government, the funds were secured and the implementation went on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52414	The next replica of the respected representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52415	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President, honorary secretary of state with an associate. So here you mentioned these changes that happened and as water is the basis for development and economy, as well as ensuring the best conditions for life on the island, so this is also important that it is in art. The 37th changed actually the possibility of supporting just those people who are left on the island who are developing economies that are thus hiring persons who are on the island and that is one of the most important measures that is being stimulated in these 3 groups that are really very significant improvements and do you have any knowledge of whether there has been an increase in these requirements and an increase in the number of employers?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52416	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52417	Thank you for this question, Your Honor. Therefore, in the amendments to this law and in the additions, island employers or economic operators are for the first time included as possible recipients of support. That's why we went in this way because we examined their interest based on a mini survey of the previous year and two to see if there was any interest, there was an interest. Now we've introduced a measure, we're going to spend the measure this year, we're going to fund it, and then we're going to be able to valorize the effects and measures through implementation for at least one year, or we're going to process it if there's a need for it. What is important to stress is that all island employers interested in this subsidy will report on a programme to be drawn up, so it has a public call and will have the possibility to receive a subsidy in the 50% amount of costs they have reported for the supply of the island. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52418	The next replica of the esteemed secretaries Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52419	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, as you said and indeed and for every commendation, is an increase in the amount of water that will be delivered at a subsidized price of 45 to 85 cubic metres. But here I would like to ask you this occasion to consider the way in which other energies should be subsidized, namely perhaps allowing the use of a blue diesel to drive ships that will be translated by the owner of the OPG or our islanders to their olive grove. We know that the possibility of using agricultural machinery at a subsidized price is, for example, a reduction in excise duty. This farmer, who is to reach his olive grove, cannot use the subsidized price, or that blue diesel. Similarly, there are entrepreneurs who cannot use these cheaper prices No matter what distance they are and are not connected to an electric public power grid. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52420	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52421	So, of course, there are also different needs that can be and will be possible and will be considered when assessing the impact of this law, when considering the possibility of improving it. As I said in the opening statement, it is complex matter, it is multi-sectoral so we have left space and it is wide and we have left space and we have sent a message that we are ready to improve it at all times in that segment for which the need is shown, and everything in agreement with representatives of island communities, employers, councils and islands themselves, but also of island regional self-government. Thank you for this.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52422	The next replica of the respected MP Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52423	Thank you very much, esteemed vice president of HS. Dear Secretary of State. Here is the Government of the Republic of Croatia every year to increase investment in the development of island areas, showing that life on the islands recognises as well as the area of special state interest, but that is also the area of great natural and economic and economic and tourism potentials. Since I come from Split-Dalmatia County, large funds are being invested precisely in the islands of Split-Dalmatia County, so 17 projects have recently been reported in which there are only 8 projects contracted from the island of Brac in the amount of millions and 350 thousand kuna, and this is for every commendation, as part of the development of the national development plan of the island of the ministry related to and in cooperation with island coordinators under that new law that you have introduced, so that it is collected from only the area of Split-Dalmatia County 426 project proposals. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52424	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52425	Thank you for your comment. We, as I said in previous comments and the question we are open to any cooperation, are involved in how we in the functioning of the islanders through their representative bodies and those in our councils, councils, working groups are included in everything. The planning and financing of the next multiannual framework is under way, the islands are not left out, although for the first time unlike previous practices are explicitly listed as one of the areas with developmental specificities for which specific and specific calls will be provided, so that we will try to respond to the very specific needs of islanders, islands and island areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52426	Dear representative Peovic also has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52427	Good afternoon. Thank you, Mrs. Djuric. I'm interested in these articles 33 and 37, as far as they're concerned. 33.Is there any kind of property census available to this subsidized extent, can it also be said about the purpose of water itself, or the use of water for what is said to be human consumption, or can it be really equated and equalised to the use of water for swimming pools and for consumption? As for Art. 37, yes, the economic activity that goes towards small businesses is certainly declared here, but can we talk about the need and in line with the National Development Strategy, the need to invest in solar plants, so that solar plants are placed on private property, but also on economic property? And can we talk about big business entities to invest in, meaning overcoming that small and medium-sized entrepreneurship as.../Speakers speak at the same time./... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52428	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52429	I appreciate the question. So, first we're going to Art. 37., island employers, island employers are all those who carry out their activity on the island regardless of the center of their business. Therefore, support is given to island employers for all those islanders who are employed for 12 months on a continuous basis, regardless of the number of islanders employed by them. Therefore, each of them can apply regardless of the size of the company. It is, of course, state support, de minimis-expressed support limited to 200 million euros over three years and it is a restriction that at least 12 months must pass between the moment of support and the request for the next support. As regards the amount of water or art. 33. It's about settlements or parts. settlements not connected to a public network [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52430	The next replica is the esteemed Glamuzine MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52431	Thank you. As regards the provisions on water supply, they reveal a fundamental problem of access to development policies in Croatia, which is the use of taxpayers' budget funds to collect some problems after they happen instead of investing in local communities' development capacities so that they can solve their problems in the long term and on their own. Why, for example. do not implement innovative and technological solutions as suggested by the Water Saving Challenge manual created precisely for Croatian islands? If we tried to do so, it might not be necessary to raise the number of water-subsidized cubics per island and thereby extend their dependence on public money and on land-based solutions. The amount of public money spent should not be exactly an indicator of success.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52432	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52433	Thank you and I agree with your comment, the amount of money spent in no way is the basic and the only indicator. It is important to know how much money is invested and why it has been invested, but here we are talking about island settlements or parts of the settlement that are not yet connected to the public water supply network and are being supplied either by vessels with a water supply or by a car. However, the process of construction of water supply systems, the process of construction of the construction of agglomerations on islands is under way. These are major line infrastructure investments. It happens during this financial period, it will also happen through the next financial period. And as soon as possible, efforts will be made to ensure equal availability of clean water for human consumption for each island. A team more until it happens next to this way is also working on the development and application of alternative water supply methods the use of desalinizers is one of these ways that is currently developing and [[Intruder: Thank you.]] is prepared for use. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52434	The next replica is the respected MP Spajic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52435	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mrs Đuric, you have so far signed 1700 harmful solutions for the Republic of Croatia and thus damaged the budget of the Republic of Croatia. I wonder if in your future you will stop at these 1700 solutions or continue to practice and continue to sign harmful solutions for the Republic of Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52436	The Secretary of State, of course, has nothing to do with this subject, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter, if he wants to answer the Secretary of State will answer, I won't give you a warning but please keep the discussion going on. If he wants the secretary of state to answer, and if not, he doesn't have to.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52437	Your Honor, I will only answer you as I have answered, no solution has been harmful to the Republic of Croatia, no solution has been signed in accordance with the procedures and the right regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52438	My colleague Pavić is giving up on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, so we will, thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, then I'd like to switch to debate, please. Yes, that the President of the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds, the esteemed representative Marko Pavić. [[Intruder: Yes.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52439	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, this morning we had a committee to discuss this point, it was a pleasure to hear that there was a public debate between the two readings. In her opening part, the State Secretary reported what had been promoted in the law itself. In particular, it is pleased that the comments of the URIs are also accepted, especially for children with persons, with special needs and transportation on the islands. We all know, and in the debate, we will discuss the content itself, in particular, that the price of the amount of subsidized water has increased, but on the Committee itself, this law has received the required majority with 7 votes for and 1 abstention, and the Committee as the parent body, the Committee on the Regional, as the parent body, will recommend the adoption of this final proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52440	Thank you very much. Before we move to the debate one notice, after the debate on this point has been concluded, we will move on to the presentation of the position of clubs and independent representatives, therefore please keep an account and possibly inform your colleagues who are interested in speaking on behalf of the clubs. I will now open the debate and the first one on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club will speak to the esteemed representative Sandra Bencic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52441	Thank you. Your Honor, I thank you for the bill and for preparing for another reading. I will, given that it is not, there are no significant changes to what we were saying when there was a report on the actual state of the islands, but also when we had the first reading, I will repeat something that some of our basic, basic objections were. First, we are starting with the thesis that Croatian islands could be an example of establishing self-sustaining communities, circular economy and sustainable tourism, energy self-sufficiency as well as Zero Waste politics. In short, we believe that they could first enter post-carbon and digital society and ensure a high quality of life and for their inhabitants, but also preserve resources for future generations. However, there are several things in this law that do not go that way. And one of the things the law calls for, and it is called for that islands are under special protection from the Republic of Croatia, which is a constitutional category. On the other hand, we delete this particularity by deciding that the islands will no longer make their development plans. So development plans will be adopted at regional level and the island policy holder is the Ministry of Regional Development, which is okay. However, we believe that groups of islands, for example, those who are more distant from land, make plans for all of them together without the specificities of each island is not a good way to go. We think that we actually need to strengthen the island's capacity to plan their own development, to invest in it, and that however many islands of a particular group have some common characteristics that each and every one has certain specialities that must be addressed. Secondly, what we see is that it is also not addressed to this law or that it has not been implemented until the end is precisely this question that we raised when we talked about the report. And that's that we don't have any indication of island development, that even with a regulation that regulates and guidelines that work to monitor the development of the island, these indicators are not tailored to the specific needs of each of the islands. So, for example, for sustainable tourism which is part of the legal provision here on smart islands, so that it goes towards sustainable tourism the only thing that exists for now, for monitoring is the number of nights, and the number of nights cannot be an indicator of the success of sustainable tourism, because, therefore, what, the bigger it is, that tourism is more sustainable? It's not. Is mass tourism not part of the concept of sustainable tourism? The other thing where we also see that it didn't go consistently to the end, consistently to the end, in the direction of seeing islands as an example and digitisation and development of some new concepts, etc., is that for example. for the Croatian island product we have no specific that this, and nor can it, that this product can also be knowledge which does not necessarily have to be produced on the island, but can be produced from islanders or islanders. So what we would be asked to do is to make procedures that will allow and what is knowledge, which is smart, which is software, so, under quotes, is whether, too, can be Croatian island product and to think about whether the concept where everything that is Croatian island product must be made exclusively on that island, but that maybe resources must come from somewhere else because sometimes, for some products must come from somewhere else. After all, our islands in history, those who were the most successful actually brought resources from somewhere else and, let's say, worked out for example, ships. So we need to think about the concept of Croatian island product in a way that it can be adapted to time, but also the fact that islands have limited resources and that if we want to develop them in the direction of more added value, then we need to accept and maybe change that concept. So, too, we have already pointed out that the approach that is based on the idea that here, here in the Parliament or in the counties, will define what islands should do and how they do it for the islanders, that it is the wrong approach because it is precisely they that have a comparative advantage in this part of which we do not have. We are faced with the concept of a circular economy, we are faced with a concept, in fact, a different use of a model of resources. We actually need to find out for ourselves what it means for us. But the islanders don't really have to. They've lived like this for centuries. So some practices of traditional actually need to be brought back to life and adapted to new times. So the use of resources on the island is completely different than the use of resources in Zagreb. For example. When we talked about the Waste Management Act the other day, you have units of local self-government where there is no biowaste, and as we should have it. He's gone. Let's say, in rural areas in Slavonia, in some other rural areas, island communities, and so, because they have a cycle of how they use that part of the waste, and we sometimes don't recognize it by laws because we create laws here, very often from the position of us living, many of us, actually in cities. So, also, if we want smart islands, and I believe that we do, then it's very important that we don't come to politics with implemented technologies in cities and implement them on islands, and then there are absurd situations, such as some situation where our islands have been offered smart traffic control, and we haven't, for example, made smart regulation and a system of notification of, say, ferry traffic, no, which they need, traffic lights don't have, mostly. We also think that one of the key things is to limit, and even legally, the model, the way in which the island's energy transition goes. So islands should be the pilot of a civil energy project. If we let the islands do megaprojects, say, solar power plants, which occupy then a large part of the area of the agricultural area or on the green surfaces, which happens, not only on islands, but elsewhere, in which case, we will not get that effect that we should have because we are going to spend local resources, there is that resource limited, the country is limited and the resources on the islands. But we can do solarization of brownfield, so houses, apartments, buildings, hotels, abandoned industrial buildings, etc. So it's a rule for us to invest in sustainable energy on the islands to be right on the already built infrastructure, and never on the greenfield. And I'm going to tell you, let's say, the Dutch parliament has given you this rule for the entire area of the country where the greengfield is the last, 7th option of 7, for investments in example, solars. So that's what, that's the approach we'd like to have. Also, we would like to change the way, so monitoring the island's development. Look, you now have a situation where you have an indicator of the development of island areas, for example GDP, and GDP is measured at the level of the region, the county. And we don't have, of course, GDP data for the island, we don't measure them, and we could measure them because the data is actually based on which GDP could be calculated. But the data has a FIN, it's got a company base, it's got a crafts base, it's got O.P.G.s, we've got tax records, we've got investment data. You, after all, have investment data. So we could also calculate this and this element of monitoring the development of the island if it's important to us, although I think there are other important indicators concerning more quality of life and, for example, income, expenditure, consumption, consumption, etc., which would better show the quality of life on islands. But I'm saying, whatever we write in the law, if we don't have a quality tracking system for those indicators, we won't get what we wanted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52442	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives will be the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Josip Boris will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52443	Thank you very much, Vice-President HS, distinguished State Secretary with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. These amendments and additions to the Island Act are the continuation of a good story which I often say here in the assembly that one of the better sides of Croatian policies that have been conducted in the past 30 years because, despite some saying that we have no indicators, we know very well where we were in '97. when the National Development Programme of the Croatian Islands was established, '99. when the first Island Act was made with similar provisions and today's law, and then it was being upgraded, and then in 2006, we were doing a whole new Island Act after one development cycle, and then in 2018, once again, the new Island Act through some changes that were in the meantime because we were adapting to time and some needs and thoughts that were then given to the islands and islands. What I'm trying to say is that it's very easy to measure everything. So we also have lists of the population in 2001 and 2011, we have numerous reports on the implementation of the Law on Islands which testify that the Republic of Croatia is taking good care of Croatian islands and that this is not just some small moment in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia or just this law, although many other laws also contribute to the overallity of this development. What we had in the early 2000s, meaning on the islands practically after the war, the start of tourist seasons, we didn't have a good traffic connection, many islands, especially the largest, largest number of inhabitants and most economic activities in 8 hours more or less were closed, we would open at 6 in the morning with the first or 7 hours with the first lines, we didn't have fast shipping lines, we didn't have a resolved emergency issue in the sense that we had the possibility of flying and helicopters, that we had the necessary infrastructure that they could land, that we had regulated health care, social care, education, etc. And in each of those areas you can see progress in relation to what we've, I say, had in '97. and in 2000, and then this Island Law ordered many other restaurants to do what to do and how to help survive that life there. And today we have 1244 islands, and we have solved that because we once talked about 1178 islands, islands and cliffs. I think the island's registrar is in operation, it's gotten rid of it, and we know now exactly what finally and all the basic data that once, I say, were just one part or a moment that just looked at itself like that. We have 59 local self-government on islands, of which on the islands of 51, 8 coastal cities have small islands in their, let's say, administrative structure, and I see here the greatest moment that this law should now be used, but also local policies to preserve life on these islands. Here I also think of Mali Losinj and Zadar and Sibenik and Dubrovnik, which also need to save their lives with their help and policies. We have 48 inhabited islands, as far as I've seen, meaning especially on small less populated islands, we have a problem, and that Croatian policy must now say what it wants and how it can preserve life to survive there. There should be no bigger problems on this big one, many of them getting an additional population, especially the bridged islands, and there are no bigger problems. I think that on the island of Krk, I don't know, or the Vir is very visible through their economic activity and many want to live on these islands, while those that hang. depends on the ferry lines there are certain minor problems in the migration. What was to be solved through, I say, time and happening, in 2003 we also have road transport and water supply of the island, and after that we introduced assistance and employers, after which we introduced that mark that many speak of, means “Croatian island product”, there is also an island card, in some ways the system has been upgraded year after year, and he today, I say, can be measurable at all, at any moment and time now drawn up by the new Island Act 2018. With these changes, the time is ahead of us and the next few years through which we must use these provisions to not only preserve this life but also upgrade, I say, in all segments. It works here after here's the 2nd. and this Law on Islands, i.e. Its amendments and additions because it has been seen that certain policies have made moves in terms of first and this part of the panedemia itself, so when we talk about road transport, we see that it means that through the amendments to the Road Transport Act, some of the responsibility has passed from the Ministry of Regional Development to the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, we see that in the part of the planning we fully comply with the Law on Strategic Planning, the system of strategic planning and management of development of the Republic of Croatia, and then move from this law to a certain provision. And what appeared to be a problem was the amount of water that was delivered to these smaller less populated islands or to parts of the island that are not connected to the water supply systems, that the amount is i.e. The amount increases to 85 m3 per household member, which I think is fine and I think water is the basic need we need to have to live first and then deal with certain economic activities afterwards. The islands today and in this system make progress, especially through agglomerations when we talk about large ones. Let's say the island of Krk is the first one that has completely solved its agglomeration far ahead of all others, so many other large islands go along, and I think that's a question that will be resolved there by 2025, 2026 on all islands, meaning that we have a regulated water supply system from which one part is used sources on the islands themselves, such as Cres and Mali Losinj, and some others are connected to water supply systems from land to so-called land. regional waterways. Of course, disposal systems are the part that we need to protect the sea in order to be able to deal with tourism in the best possible way and to have the environment and nature preserved, and in this way, with everything we do through the waste management system that we talked about yesterday in those islands, we ensure the preconditions that we can then move into this second phase that the Island Act also predicted when we talk about green policies, smart islands, digitalization, etc. Here I can say that I am glad that the island of Losinj, Rab, are among the first to solve the system of digitization i.e. The development of broadband Internet and at the end of the year will practically make us all on optical cables connected, which is one big thing for us on the islands. We know how many problems we have in large cities that may be much simpler to solve, but I say in many islands of the forerunner, and I agree with this part that we can be that pilot project in part of that circular economy of green policies, because for that a little bit all conditions are being created. But it is primary to preserve the population through numerous benefits and support, through subsidies and above all traffic connections, it depends most on it. If you're not well connected, you have a problem. Today's system of ferry and high-speed lines simply contributes to the fact that you today, compared to what we had in 2000, talk about dozens of state ferry lines, the shipping lines that connected these smaller islands to their centres on islands or on land also work, and the system of fast-board lines is what upgraded absolutely everything, especially in the season when the system in most of the private sector that behaves it simply creates an additional value... traffic connection. What should be pointed out here is that further arrangements have been made through the support of small employers in art. In 37th, it is now introduced that 100% of the gross earnings paid annually for the first group of islands are paid for for the second group of 75 and 45% for the third group of the island. This has been divided into two groups of 100 and 50% for the first and the second and I think it's also fine, although the biggest users are practically the largest islands because they have the most businessmen. This should be supported, especially in the part and persons with disabilities and their rights, and I think that finally here this law has now traversed the island's development space over the next few years, and I don't think there will be any major problems, which is why the HDZ club will support them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52444	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives will be that of the Centre and GLAS in the name of the respected representative Anka Mrak Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52445	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Respected secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. So in Croatia we have 1244 islands, of which is 78 islands, 524 islets and 642 rocks or reefs, that is the natural value of Croatia, that is what the comparative value of Croatia is, and what we all need to do together and do is to enable the real sustainable development of the island. Yesterday we had a debate on the Waste Management Act, so there is a loss of sustainability there, it must not be lost here because the sustainable development of the island actually refers to the promotion and development of local communities on islands, the increase in quality and availability of municipal, educational, health, social, cultural, sports, business, tourism and other public services in the system of support for the environment, the use of energy efficiency and renewable energy sources. And that all sounds good on paper, we have a sustainable development of the island, let's deal with it together to bring certain declarations, we also bring certain strategies, but what we all have to do together is take care of what it looks like in reality. Life on the islands, therefore, those congregation representatives who are here from our ranks, who originate either alive or still live or who live on the islands know how to speak emotionally. I can't speak so emotionally but I can speak in terms of what Croatia needs, wants and must be. So if you have such a single natural value, if you have such a one comparative advantage in other things you have to worry about. And for that reason, it is no wonder that every time a new Law on Islands comes or changes come, and that the Island Act is complemented by all of our ranks, regardless of whether they are ruling or opposition, they try to speak aphimaticly and efforts to talk about it should be done even more, this should be improved. I've had the chance to really think that I'm the only one who hasn't been to the Palagruja game on a case, and on everything else, I've been to those times when you didn't have a store on an island. So I'm saying it as someone who's been coming to the islands. So, back when I started sailing in '85, '86. I did, and I went around all the islands, and when I was working on intense spatial planning, so when someone came in with a spatial plan, I would talk about knowing, then he asked me how I know, I say because I went around, I went around as a tourist, I went around as someone who cared, I went around as someone who lives in Croatia, and I went around as someone who recognized it as a Croatian advantage. All that we see in cities and on land, the island, in the islands is seen long before and a lot of this in a more intense way. So if you have a water problem you see this problem of water on the islands you see much faster and much more intensely than you can see on the island, than you do, so much more intensely on the island than on land. Equally, when the topic of climate change started at the world level who was the first to react to climate change, I speak at the world level, of course not at the level of the Republic of Croatia, these are islands. One of the Croatian islands that is threatened by the danger of climate change and sea level rise actually disappears is Krapanj. It's our lowest island that's somewhere the highest point is to him I think 5 meters above sea level. So that's something and that's some change that they are. And that's why you saw that even in our first reading we supported this amendment and the addition of the law for the simple reason, I really hold that there is no law that is carved into stone, that we should keep in mind what is in the application of laws that are problems to admit, listen somewhere we have made a little mistake and we need to make changes to make us both faster and more operational. Some things have been done, some things will be done, some things will be done, let's face it, they won't do, if you have one family that lives on an island, and we have these cases, and when you put how much money is invested, you have to invest to say get that family or one man water, of course, will become very questionable whether it's still possible to be the plumbers who are going to have to bring this, bring this water, but of course it has to be in a slightly reduced form and we have to try to make it as little as possible. So what I said at one point, you simply when you come to any island today in 2021 and when you try, any one of you really speak any and try to compare in the past 40 years you see still large, not yet but works, you see some changes, so all that you can do, so everything that used to look very far now is very close. But what we all have to do together not only through the laws, through the passing of laws, actually that this comparative advantage that islands have especially in the new way of life, this crown has shed light on other things. See today when it is, what people in the offer of tourism are looking for. They are either looking for high-class hotels or looking for houses in the background, looking for some objects in isolation so that this one island isolation that is really a problem, the problem in functioning is becoming a comparative advantage. That's something to take care of. It should also be taken into account when, when, when and when, it is possible to develop the island. What is always important is always an important quality infrastructure. So, quality connection, that you have water supply but therefore you also have energy self-sufficiency. I have to admit now that I'm in my life when I remember more and more what was in the past, so I remember in general the project of the first wind power plants that were on the island of Vis, in the southern part, and at all that other process of whether, how, what does that mean? So this one self-sufficiency when it comes to energy supply is extremely important, extremely important. Equally, what is important in terms of climate change, it is important that we deal with waste quality. Of course waste disposal, you can recycle part of the waste, you can reuse part, you can have compost, but there's always part of the waste that you can't do anything with. When it comes to islands, there's no other way but to take them away from the island somewhere else. So all those problems that we face as a state in a certain country development, all those problems that we have about climate change, all that we want to have, and when we talk about the green plan when it comes to islands, we see it in very, actually in one condition in one small territory, and you see how you try to solve it all together. When it was debated in the first reading I can't and can't repeat it then I said among other things that this law is in line with the Law on the System of Strategic Planning and Management of the Development of the Republic of Croatia. It is two laws that were from two ministries, and when this law that we are changing today in 2018 was in the first reading, then we indicated that they were trying to comply with each other's provisions, or those two legislative proposals, and then there was even some amendment that was not accepted, but it was welcome to ours. So, both this amendment and the addition of the Island Law, we see as a step forward. I wish there were some magic sticks, and we wish someone with a magic wand could change things, but what we always have to take care of is next. That we have a quality legal proposal, that we have a legal proposal that can be implemented and that we spend it and what is most important of all that we have people because if we don't have people then everything and if we don't have our fellow citizens who are willing to live on islands and who are going to create the conditions of decent life on islands, you can have the best laws, best intentions, but from all of that together there will be nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52446	The next club of MPs will be that of the Homeland Movement, speaking the esteemed representative Davor Dretar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52447	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, Secretary, ma'am. Secretary of State with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. We're going to go through, of course, a moment through, here, this one quite broad and final bill in which, here, we can refer to a lot of things. First, here, teaching the presentation of respected colleague Mrak-Taritash, would say how important it is to preserve our islands, to keep them clean, to keep them and keep them alive, to keep people there and, of course, to keep our economic activity smart and strategic planning. What are the dangers to our islands we saw yesterday when we had one, fortunately very quickly localized fire at the waste dump in Mali Losinj. So it's clear to all of us that tourism simply has no alternative as a serious representative of the propulsion fuel of this entire country, but on the islands, I, of course, clearly need to balance. Waste management includes, of course, wastewater management and wastewater management, whether on Croatian islands we are going towards the development of high-end tourism with hotel chains, and we know that high-end hotels are also high-end contaminants, especially because of these wastewaters that contain various chemicals used for cleaning, or disinfection. Putting in there some expensive and sophisticated systems through which such wastewaters could be kept in a quality way or managed by them, believes, extremely expensive projects, so it is clear to all, of course, that islands as virgin nature of Croatia must retain that kind of tourism, and even through, in recent years, popular, popularly called Robinson tourism, or now modernly say, glamping. Let's see, although it's not on the island, of course, how Novska does it. There, an agronomist with the help of common sense, top-of-the-line effort and European funds made a representative industry of video games and, of course, other things from the aspect of electronics and such industry. Why don't we run that same thing, know-how and apply that same knowledge on the islands. We know that such industries are extremely small contaminants, of course, they need to provide quality internet connections, but I believe that soon through optical cables and 5G technology, there will be space. We need to bring knowledge to the islands, not take people away. We continue to go to some articles, free public island transport, in any case we fully support, and the fact that it is also approved for persons by specific categories, disability or social status and who do not have a place on the islands. Water supply of up to 85 cubic metres per year is something that absolutely and certainly needs to be supported because we know how much water is, we can say freely, even strategic energy or the prerequisite of survival on the islands. The economic operators on the islands will also achieve state support up to a maximum of 50% of the costs of water transport, which is absolutely to be supported, but once again it should be reminded that very responsible and very reasonable plans should be made for the development of economic operators and it is a clear thing, however, to leave the market in one hand, but in the other hand, and to try carefully to preserve an environment that is one of the most important for the development of tourism. As far as these Croatian island products are concerned, here I am in the replica of the respected Mrs. The Secretary of State was only in good faith to draw attention to the fact that perhaps, behold, all these associations, associations, associations, associations, associations, tourist communities and all those who can participate in the events that contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the Croatian island product programme, and we know that these are fairs, events, conferences, workshops, seminars and education that will, believe, with a slow unlocking, and I sincerely hope, and one day, a complete victory over the Covida-19 pandemic, will become something normal, or we will return to what is old and normal. There are also several restrictive articles here. The user can be awarded the means to carry out no more than two different activities, I believe that there should be thought about it, so perhaps, of course, to allow someone who really wants to do more, who wants to do it more often than he can. Associations, associations and cooperative alliances must, under this next article, be registered at least 2 years before the application is submitted. There, I believe you should think about it. Of course, the Croatian island product, as one colleague here said, must no longer be only cheeses, olives, wine, lavender and, of course, produce from them. One of the, I must personally remember, to me the hardest shows are our beautiful Earth Fruits, and when I saw a contribution there one year about the incredible amount of sheep's run that the wind, like in those Western movies, drives our islands and carries them, because the peasants cut sheep and then just throw it with an incredible sentence, the wool doesn't pay off. It is impossible for me personally to realize that something that God has given us and our man's valuable hands is not worth using as raw materials or as anything else, as a finished product. I suppose the Croatian island product has a lot of potential and I myself participated in events called the EU Fund Fairs. As a leader, I've crossed the coast and several islands, and I've seen how many people have the will, how many people want to participate in such programs, I've seen, of course, and that they count on that promotion, it's obvious that they need it, so why don't we just unlock or be a little bit more liberal towards them and give it to them simply if they want to work. Other articles also mention the rights to grant state support for activities relevant for the economic development of the island, island employers. Here I believe there's going to be a little tolerance as well. We know for ourselves that we are getting a little bit out of the Covid-19 crisis, so here in this article on support that employees who work at the same island employer for at least 12 months, so a year, I believe that it might be a little more flexible there, too. We've seen ourselves on many of the laws that we've passed here, we've decided some things that are not regulated by law to regulate certain rules or sublaws, so I think people should meet here, too. Therefore, the goal is to keep Croatian people on Croatian islands, as well as bring new people. We mentioned here with a lot, so I can say the imaginations as well, and some digital nomads that we have here and discussed and voted on, so I believe that Croatian islands are an ideal place and that the development of modern sciences and modern technologies is exactly ideal for development on Croatian islands, so let's bring people out there, keep our people out, and let's not forget our agriculture and our farmers, because as the inhabitants of these islands themselves, the inhabitants of our Adriatic say "the stingy country keeps their treasure", so let's keep it too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52448	The next Club of Representatives will be that of the SDP, and the Honorable Representative Arsen Bauk will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52449	I thank my colleagues and colleagues. This law and in the second reading is similar to that of the first reading, in short the water of the thumbs up, and these island development plans of the thumbs down there, it would be about the taste of only these amendments to the law. The previous speakers said that, or colleague Bencic said that it does not exist or that there is no indication of the island’s development. My colleague Boric's doing a little replicating, so I'm going to try to round it up. The first indicator of island development was presented in 2014. Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic, then, in his well-known, subtle and careful public appearance that you know when he told you that islands are better alive than on the continent except in large urban centres, which caused the general enthusiasm of the islanders and of course this reaction is true. The danger of this statement is that, of course, the islanders are asked about it, not the people from the rural areas where they live better, and then the media gets, of course, a kind of response that is usually given in such a case. However, there is a much more efficient and logical method, not scientifically processed, but it is politically very well-founded, and it is said that the development of certain parts of Croatia is vice-proportional to the number of HDZ and mayors in these parts, starting with Slavonia, Istria, Dalmatia, etc., so in this sense islands are somewhere between Istria and Slavonia, slightly more developed than Slavonia, and slightly less developed than Istria, so is the number of this HDZ leader. I think it's a method that's proven relatively accurate so far, but I think scientific analysis would show that it's pretty much like that. Speaking in my first reading on the Island Law, I consulted a number of people whose opinions I hold, and they come from the island, and they mentioned one case that was not available before, which is less accessible to health services. So that it wouldn't just remain on the impressions of this particular number of people on the island I tried to find what the attorney general said about it. I will quote what she said: “The inaccessibility of health services, especially in rural remote areas and islands, was strengthened during the epidemic. So they received a complaint from the people of Hvar unsatisfactory because the patients on the island do not have the possibility of exercising the right to physical therapy in the house, as provided to the patients on land. Equally providing health services throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia, especially in isolated and smaller places and islands, is necessary for all citizens to be entitled to health care, which is a major problem for Croatian islands." So, the attorney general's report, I'm paying attention to the rest of the ministry. The second remark that we received was, which was mentioned by the Ombudsman, excuse me, by the island associations, and also by the Ministry of Regional Development and other ministries in the course of competitions with the principle of so-called "the Ministry of Regional Development". The fastest finger. A quote: “But due to the principle of the fastest finger, organizations that have previously handed over projects regardless of their quality and put themselves in a more unfavourable position of an association operating in rural areas or in islands where mail is not working every day or not at all, and the internet connection is not always stable.” I also draw attention to the report by the attorney general and on this subject because the representatives of the government were from the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Regional Development, as well as to their representative at the hearing. As for the island development plans of this, it seems to me, however, that they did not eventually live, and that is why the ministry, for example, is returning them to the counties, so it now depends on how much each coastal county will take care of the specificity of the island and how much it will allow the island's inhabitants to have a significant number of islands to a greater extent or to a full extent, so they are probably represented in the representative body, while for example Zadar County or Sibenik County still has fewer inhabitants than the rest of the county living on islands, so in that sense, their potential for influences will be less. Traditionally, in the Croatian Parliament, regardless of who makes up the parliamentary majority, and who makes up the opposition to the topic of the island were, therefore, transgender but transgender and should ignore this petty political and day-to-day political awakening in our debates, it could be difficult to determine who was from which party when we talked about this topic. Something similar is happening now on the subject of perhaps Bania, Banovina, and earthquake - affected areas. And in that sense, the SDP Club will also support this bill. We estimate that this water business is more beneficial than the damage caused by these island development plans. I would also like to emphasise the regret that the island council has not met for almost longer than some of these of some of the bodies of the University of Zagreb, not to mention now, not to mention the names and I would like that practice to change. I mean, a little bit of a patriotism place like this, which I'm unowning but, of course, as far as Mark Livaia's remains are concerned, that's different. This, therefore, I personally preferred it when the Board of Islands was in the Ministry of Maritime Affairs even though it was 2012, the Ministry of Seas pardon, although it was changed still in 2012 it seems somehow no matter what I have against State Secretary Đurić, that it is still easier to communicate with each other with those colleagues who come from the island like Boric when he was in where he was already at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs or elsewhere. The integration of the island into the entire story of regional development is okay, but we would prefer it to fit us only in this part of the sea. I see that colleague Baricevic responds positively to this proposal. So, in that sense, if this organisational structure can be adapted, it would be good. We don't need to especially explain what that is about. For the last time, I have been in the Croatian Parliament for a long time, but the personal favorite initiative that finally came to life is, in this law, therefore, further extended and, in fact, the only legal proposal I wrote myself was to enable privileged transport to ferry children with developmental difficulties. And there was little politics, so the parliamentary majority rejected the proposal, the committees voted against, but every time any committee voted against the proposal then, then the media made so much pressure on MPs both at the end of both the government and Minister Butkovic that the law had to change. This principle of work of the Croatian Parliament was not personal to me, so I think it was logical to support the proposal of the law in the first reading, to assign the Government to do it in the second reading, so in that sense it was the only law that concerned the island that was proposed without being accepted, but we will not be misremembered, so we will still support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52450	Thank you very much. We move to an individual debate and the rights will be spoken by the respected representative Rada Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52451	... colleagues and colleagues, as we all know, of many islands and countries, including countries with islands and the EU itself, are trying to find solutions for achieving sustainability and as much self-sufficiency as possible, especially when it comes to water, of course food, of course energy. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] What is very important to keep here we talked about in order to allow more water for our fellow citizens, but I think that from time to time we should ask science what it says about it, so let's say today are just a fraction of the text to say what it means to preserve water and how to preserve it on the islands of Professor Runko Luttenberger from the University of Rijeka. She says that water preserves, and the public needs first to understand the extent of the problem, and local authorities should also communicate with their residents, so how to preserve water. Because it's not enough whether we're going to supply more water, whether we're going to increase the price of water, whether we're going to do other similar measures especially during tourist seasons, and here we witnessed in the talks last time, which means since during some short stay, I'm not sure how important it is to save water for those who remain or new tourists and people who otherwise live on the island. So what is proposed, what scientists suggest, and my question is how much do we even use science when we're doing this kind of bill? So they tell us this way and the suggestions are what we should do to preserve, so to have, and the text is called Sustainable water supply of the island, so it says this further development of local water resources where we should bear in mind that over-exploitation will result in the penetration of seawater, the use of groundwater by the coast, is thought where we have several islands and water. Bringing water from the mainland involves fuel consumption, energy, and we talked about what it means to bring to the islands, which means the process and last time we talked about desalinization, whether it's the best form of someone to say we're desalinizing and it's great, we're going to get drinking salt water, but what happens with biodiversity, which is happening in too much energy to do exactly that and what that means, in general, in terms of the volume of the produced drinking water that we can get. What also concerns and needs to be taken into account, and I am not sure that we have good enough in the law, which is cleaning and reusing water. There are problems with local regulations listed in the text on several water treatment devices is also treated to a standard that should be higher than the standards that otherwise require us eu directives, and in some places it is worse, so we need to see what these additional costs are now to allow us to have sustainable water supplies. One of the essential factors for the efficient reuse of water is the proximity of the water recycling device, so where we're going to use it again. So when we're doing something here, we're all talking about the recovery plan and we're talking about the circular economy, which we can specifically show on the islands, for example. about the sustainable water supply of the island including the reuse of water. We all know that our grandparents used to do this on the islands and what they did with that water that had already been used once and how many times and how carefully they had washed the first dishes in it, then watered the drill and how they knew it themselves and what happened when we thought water was that we could get more water and we were too concerned about what we were doing with that water and what we could do. Reuse of water for such specific purposes could increase the reliability and sustainability of water supply. And it's really important that we start talking about water recycling in a different way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52452	The next individual debate will be the respected MPs of Anka Mrak Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52453	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Respected secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. We have a National Development Strategy that lists and identifies islands and talks about smart island management. Similarly, the smart management of islands is told by an EU-level declaration that was not signed by our units of local self-government, but is absolutely supported and which speaks of this island's isolation, talks about the comparative advantages of the island and talks about this local development. In this local development of the island, we should take care of it, everyone should participate, first and foremost those living on the islands, public sector should participate, private sector must participate, naturally different civil societies and, of course, scientific community must participate. Why? In order to get as good a projection as possible, the better ideas as smart island management involves, smartly managed energy, taking care of climate change, circulatory economy, of course transport and mobility and innovative processes. Those islands that through their, so first and foremost should have a state-level strategy, and then some strategies should be made and individual islands, those who will have it... a step forward. What does smart management mean? So that we know what we have, so that means that we manage data, means that we have data in the same place, so we need to know what consumption is of some energy because of course, as I was already saying in the name of the club, everything that happens to you on the islands happens to you in one smaller one, all the processes that usually happen in Croatia, and here I'm talking about processes that happen along the coast line, or in our Adriatic counties, on the islands are strengthened, and those peaks that are connected to tourism on the islands are extremely enhanced. So, if we want to be such very broad arms, we have tourism about three months a year, on the islands it can still be those needs that you have for energy, the needs you have for water, the needs you need for all that any tourist who comes wants to have unless you have developed another kind of tourism where you absolutely don't want any of it, you have to do it, design it and build it for those picks, and you don't need it all year round. So that's absolutely everything when we talk about islands is about one general one sensitive I'd say the space where you have to take care of it all, but in order to be able to keep an eye on certain parameters and certain things. So, it's always a problem for you to design and develop anything you don't have enough data. So, the first time I heard of a concept a long time ago for a smart city, then of course I stayed so little surprised what that even meant, and then over time you figure out what it means. It's not a smart city because it's a very smart city, but it's a smart city that actually knows the same thing as any household that it has, that needs to be managed and how it should be further developed. Of course, when we talk about processes that are necessarily what we need to take care of, we need to make sure that people who want to live on islands give them the opportunity to live as high as possible. We'll never have to make that clear. It'll never be as good as living on land. I'm looking at a colleague who's from Zadar, of course life in Zadar and on the Zadar Islands no matter how close they are, how good they are and the lines and everything together is different. But life on the islands can take precedence, and we who need to take care of the state. We have to take care of all the elements we have and try to be better every time and every time we have new laws and new amendments and additions to the law, we say that we recognize some problem and that the problem that we recognize that next time we try to solve or solve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52454	We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52455	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, that's where you mentioned two concepts that are extremely important to us for the debate on the future. The first are smart islands, we've heard a lot about smart cities, but we haven't heard much about smart islands, and we'll have this big problem because for cities we can collect data in a simple way, but for islands we need to collect in a different way because we have islands where there are more local self-government and you need... Systematize and collect and create a data storage facility, make smart data on which we will later make decisions or on the basis of which the systems will automatically make decisions. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The other thing you mentioned is what's extremely important and I'm sorry it's not in this law, it's green energy, you've actually mentioned energy. It is that we should prepare ourselves for new tourists or tourists who will come to the Adriatic with electric cars and charge those cars on the islands will be an obvious problem because even today when they come down, I physically think when they come in, fill the apartments, the problems... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52456	Thank you very much. The answer of Honorable Representative Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52457	Thank you very much. So, at one point I think I said a sentence that I'm going to repeat, which is that you actually have tourists when they come wanting to have conditions like they have at home. So, when a tourist comes from Hamburg wants to have conditions like at home, if he comes in an electric car and wants to charge it, he wants to be available on all networks, he might as well work and everything else and we're often surprised. Something happens to us, and then we wonder how it happened. We must prepare for such things. You have to prepare yourself for such things in time, not to get that kind of tourism to happen to you, so some people who may decide to live on an island for six months and work on that island. Today, more and more people work from home. So what we need to take care of is investment in energy as well. We know how to do it, what to do, but we should just do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52458	Thank you. The Republic has a respected representative, Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52459	Dear colleagues, I certainly support this one of your explanations, your argument regarding this law, which is a major step forward, as I see and most of the opposition in principle supports everything that here is quality in relation to the life of our islanders. However, we have one prosatic, one, one daily problem, just down here I don't know how much you know about the islands of Cres and Lošinj, in that season comes crowds, crowds, crowds of people coming up and just over a year ago two of them could have been there on a regular basis and the garbage could have been put off there, but now they're kind of locked up, they're special containers that can be unlocked, but these keys can't be people that show up there for 5-6, 10 days, and you can think of a desire to systematically edit something, on the other hand they're growing wild, what do you think about it?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52460	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52461	Thank you very much. So, what, this is, this is actually a discussion teaching on yesterday's discussion about waste. I'll just tell you the way, when you're taking care of the waste and taking care of your home waste, you have a problem. My mom's had a house in New Vinodolski for years, so it's not an island, it's all working. Now that I'm going to the weekend I don't leave the trash there, so that waste, I've got my brown and yellow bag from Zagreb, I'm taking it down neatly even though it all works normally in the summer and then I'm taking it back to Zagreb and I'm throwing it in the container in Zagreb. And it can all work for the weekend for the simple reason I don't want to let him fly. That, in the summer it works great in New Vinodolski. But what we have to do is make sure that tourists behave according to what we're doing, and I'm just gonna use a little time. The first time I went out of the trash, you know, when I went skiing in Austria. I went to the apartment, I took out the trash, and I acted there like she had the conditions for me to act like one.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52462	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be respected representative Marko Pavic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52463	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Assembly, State Secretary, Assistant Minister, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's my colleague Bauk, in his presentation on behalf of the club, said he'd like it just to be the people of the island who are going to develop the policies of the island, so maybe I should rephrase him that he doesn't need to be from the island to love the islands and take care of regional development, right... From the sea well here, I am from the Dalmatian Mountain, and the main, major component that is within this law, a regulation that we have increased from 45 to 85 cubic cc's of subsidized water consumption here and within my mandate of government. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Therefore, it is important that the government has, and the government of Andrej Plenkovic has a policy of even regional development and I believe that the secretary of state and the expert team that has an assistant, who I personally know are excellent and professional, can do so in quality. There are no comments from the Homeland Movement on the same and the powers, we all know, all of us who were ministers, state secretaries, that state secretaries can sign, under the authority of the minister, so absolutely those arguments do not stand. But back to the Island Act, as I already said in this opening section, the key component is an increase from 45 to 85 cubic metres, the transposition of a government regulation that was from the 7th month. In 2019, and what we see this measure doing, so 7 399 people have so far been using that measure, 17 million kunas have been allocated and it is a pleasure to ensure. Life on the islands, we know it is difficult, yes, especially in the winter months, when there are not enough lines, but what Mr. Boric pointed out on behalf of the HDZ Club, that big steps have been made to ensure a better life, providing services, over a billion kunas are invested in 15 projects of different ports on islands. We see from the EU funds buying helicopters that will also cover medical care on islands. Many regional development projects carried out only by the Ministry, support for entrepreneurs, support for the Croatian island product, and I would agree with my colleague Bencic that the Croatian island product and should be extended to include innovative services, but it is primarily this after I have visited all of Croatia as Minister of Regional Development that there is a need to strengthen the capacities of people on the islands and that is precisely why you have included regional co-ordinators in the island council through this Act, because regional coordinators have extended the hand of the Ministry, over 400 million kuna has been invested in their development and their wages to help develop projects on islands. There are some islands, such as Rab, Cres, Losinj, which are more proactive in this, but what we need to ensure is that for these 24.5 billion euros that are coming to us, we provide a large enough amount of projects on the islands. And here, besides agglomerations, I personally engaged in a radio conference, let's say Vis, water at Vis, except for the availability of water, medical services, education, culture, there are definitely innovative projects of economic development, projects such as, let's say, what I saw and convinced myself, on the island of Orkney in Great Britain, Scotland. It's hydrogen ferry, renewable energy sources. For example, the ferry to Prvic, where I personally fly, Tiyat was produced in 1955 and my grandmother once, with him from Zaton until there was a Sibenik bridge in Sibenik, went to Sibenik. Therefore, colleagues who are from Sibenik-Knin County know how much they need to invest in infrastructure, in new lines, in the construction of ships, and all of this can be obtained from EU funds, all of it can be green and renewable. So, from the board's point of view and like Mr. Boric on behalf of the club, I'm glad we're going to make final changes to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52464	We've got more replicas on your exhibit. She is the first respected representative, Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52465	These billions of euros coming to us, these EU funds that will solve all our problems, including those of the island. Well, you're an ex-minister, so please say it specifically. What is the percentage of our EU budget and what you are doing for the islands in the budget, not dependent on EU funds. It's my first question, and the second question, since we need innovation and a qualitative turn in politics towards the islands, if you're doing anything to stimulate projects like desalinisation that will work solar panels, which will turn sea water into drinking water, etc. Because it's the future of water supply for islands, not what we want, of course, an increase in drinking water, but which is only a short-term solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52466	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52467	Dear colleagues, thank you for asking because exactly national funds exceed even EU funding. In the report on the implementation of the 2020 Island Act, you will see figures that 4.3 billion kuna was invested in the islands last year, of which EU funds are 1.6. So, something about a third. Therefore, the EU funds are a very development component, but very much is being invested, and national funding, as you can read in the Reports on Islands that regularly come to the Parliament. As for the desanalization, the supply of islands, that I hosted the personal and prof. Uri Shamir, top desalinating expert and former president of the American Geophysical Union. What we have to do, and here the EU is very good, for the development of such projects where we can't bring water to every island, but we can develop projects to secure every island water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52468	The next replica of the respected representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52469	Dear Representative Marko Pavić I think this water initiative is really commendable, but I'm asking you, what four-member family in Croatia spends 300 cubic metres of water? [[Intruder: Lasting.]] So we're wondering what we're financing for the islanders? Is really their needs or something. That's the first question. The second question is about problems on the islands. Definitely among the major problems on the islands is waste and waste water. You must have information about how many projects were projected for agglomeration, how many of these projects went into construction, how many of them were launched, whether or not the works were launched, and how much do you think they would never be implemented?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52470	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52471	Well, thank you very much for asking my fellow denominator Pavić. As regards the development of the island, the objective of regional development is to ensure equal conditions in all areas of the Republic of Croatia. In other words, if we also look at GDP, if we look at the average wage, you have approximately the availability of both water and health and all other services in the same parts of Croatia. The Ministry of Regional Development has made these analyses. If you have read the law you have also seen that there are certain monthly restrictions in order to potentially prevent abuses, but a total of 7300 citizens. I believe that every kuna invested in water and subsidisation is well invested because it ensures that these 7300 people remain living on these islands.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52472	Dear representative Peovic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52473	Good afternoon. I haven't been able to ask the secretary of state, so I'll use the question this way, maybe you'll know the answer. So, from first to second reading from Art. 36.a. the ‘cooperative’ has been deleted, meaning as possible applicants on a public call through which grants are granted grants to co-finance the implementation of the activities and promotion of the ‘Croatian island product’ programme. I wonder why the deleted cooperatives are? It seems to me that cooperatives are a very important segment in the development of the island's economy and that they bring a whole new model and production and production of surplus values on islands and even access to work and labour rights, because, as we know, cooperatives, unlike some other forms of economic activity, have a more democratic form of decision-making in the company itself and as far as the distribution of profits and other things is concerned, means the production and economic policy itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52474	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52475	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Peovic, I think you're right. Cooperatives are a very important form of association, I believe the ministry will refer. What I can tell you, my knowledge and my view, simply cooperatives are essentially companies and they are held in a commercial court and as such are subject to state aid. If you are running a tender for the non-profit sector, cooperatives cannot be users or a support system should be developed. Therefore, I believe that this is why it has been deleted, which does not mean that there can be no other competition that will support cooperatives and that will support the work of cooperatives because I know of many examples, here are the defence associations that are highly commendable and contribute to the development of society, but they are led as a company and subject to state aid and cannot be given grants without a programme of state aid which is produced and declared to the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52476	The next replica of the respected representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52477	Thank you very much. Comrade Pavic, let's get this water supply story straight. So what does the state do and why does it do? So under the Law on the Communist Economy, local self-government is required to provide water to all its settlements and to all its citizens whatever belongs to them through certain settlements. As for these small and less populated islands, the towns of Losinj, Sibenik, I don't know, Zadar, Dubrovnik etc., get that possibility and help of the state that these citizens who pay the same water as those in Sibenik and Zadar, etc., that the state subsidizes them, given that they are not connected to water supply systems, that they don't think about getting anything for free or that they don't pay anything. They regularly pay for water like any other resident, and the need for the system to be built up. The moment they're connected to water supply systems, when it's going to be me I don't know, it's also the task of these big cities and their administrations, the state helps make this system work and that everyone has enough water, especially now in the summer months that they're also dealing with tourism and they want to live down there.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52478	Thank you. Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52479	Thank you very much. Comrade Boric, we know that you were a longtime chief, so thank you for explaining it one more time. Therefore, citizens pay on islands the price of water that is the same as from the water lines they receive, and from this subsidized part is paid by the plumbers and the arrival and supply of that water is paid. So no one gets anything extra for it, but I repeat again every kuna invested for those 7300 people providing drinking water and ensuring that these 7300 people can survive. And here, in particular, I would like to stress on these new, more modern technologies and that we also had a debate in this higher home about NPOO where the broadband Internet will be introduced for the entire territory of Croatia and those that are not profitable and thus we will allow, there is no development without a broadband Internet, that both more modern jobs and more modern jobs can be opened on islands.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52480	Dear Representative Boric, let's not get off the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52481	He's talking from the bench, so I didn't even hear you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52482	That's why I asked him not to speak from the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52483	Dear colleague Pavic, here, since there is no Mr. Bačić, it may be because after these elections, Korčula is a HDZ free island, I would still be interested, perhaps you will know how to answer the Secretary of State. In fact, we saw when we were talking, you most often here talk about EU funds, how it is possible that in one project for the Port of Pollacities, that for a kilometer of road that was only supposed to be restored, not a new road, a kilometer of 14 million kuna, what kind of surveillance is there, that it is possible that the road that was only supposed to be expanded, how is it possible that this mile, are we now going to have a road instead of a tunnel or you're going to have a road, so you won't have any more islands?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52484	Thank you. Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52485	Thank you very much. Here I am sorry yesterday when I spoke or the day before yesterday, you weren't there, but I'm sorry to talk about European funds this way you show absolute ignorance and you showed that you didn't even know how to read from the budget if it can't be read from the budget. For example, the programme "Wish", which is a billion and a half kuna, was reflected in the budget rebalancing of 209 million, should be seen in full. As for the insult and Mr. Bacic's not there, but I believe the ministry will respond, but the procedures for control in the eu funds are huge, which I believe that my colleague Bencic has already explained to you many times, so they are at the level of a particular competition, so the ARPAs which controls, so the European Commission and everything. Some purchases I don't know about any port, but there are four levels of control, then the European Court of Auditors, and I'm sorry that you're throwing yourself out of your hands like this, and if you want to fight like this, here we won the Dubrovnik-Neretva County I know it's bothering you and I know it's bothering you that we've got 15 counties, but here we are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52486	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Boris has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52487	... However, he finally touched himself, talking about something that happened two days ago, and that I couldn't read something because that level wasn't even in the budget, so I'm saying that I'm not privileged to read the fourth level of the budget. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52488	Okay, you know it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, not that I'm being told honestly today, even though we'd deserve it. The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Danica Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52489	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the HS, the Honorable State Secretary, the Chiefs of the Ministry's Department of Islands, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. We often like to talk here when these discussions in Croatia are like a country with a thousand islands, and our coast with islands is indeed one of the most divorced in the world. The Croatian island has 1244 natural formations of 78 islands, 524 islets, 642 rocks and reefs. 49 islands and Peljesac peninsula were constantly inhabited. The territory of the Croatian islands is located in seven counties, the islands are administratively situated in 59 units of local self-government and 18 cities, 41 of which are 51 units on the island and eight of them on land. In Croatia, through the construction of the necessary basic infrastructure and various subsidies and state support, more than 1.6 billion kuna is on average invested annually, and here we are talking about important infrastructure projects, water price subsidies, islands that are not connected to the water supply system, free public road transport for certain categories of passengers on islands, support for island employers to preserve jobs, implementation of Croatian island products projects, investment in port infrastructure, support for the implementation of the projects of many island associations. Therefore, Croatia systematically takes care of its islands, which is legally governed by the special Law on Islands, which was first adopted in 1999. And this new law, which took place in December 2018, which was made multi-sectorally so that it could just step up in time, respond to all the challenges that we islanders face, and it is subject to systematic changes like today's final bill before us, which provide additional amounts of water at the subsidized price of the settlement on the islands, which are not connected to the public water supply system or increase the amount of water from 45 m3 to 85 m3 per island. And the government of the Republic of Croatia just last July adopted a regulation on these water subsidies for human consumption per island. Therefore, the final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law transposes that government regulation and regulates the implementation of the right to water for human consumption at a subsidised price up to a maximum of 50% of the transport costs of water delivered to natural and legal persons carrying out economic activity in island settlements, which are supplied by means of a self-cistration or by a water vessel. The draft laws and amendments and additions to this Island Act have just been approached because of the need to transpose that regulation into the legal framework, but also because of the fact that during the period of measures and activities prescribed by the Island Act, the problems identified by them need to be further regulated, adapted and extended by the legal frameworks. For example, the non-compliance of certain provisions of the existing Law on Islands with the new legal framework governing the system of strategic planning and management of the development of the Republic of Croatia and the legal framework governing the management of regional development has led to the inability to adopt certain sublaws and acts which need to be further adopted by the Island Act. Today we have heard that the island development plans have been abolished, not they have been abolished, but they must be made and be mandatory content of the coastal county development plan. This law also partially amends the composition of the Island Council, given that it is prescribed that the institution of the regional coordinator may be exclusively an island coordinator in its work, this provision is strictly amended for the purpose of harmonising the level of representatives of all institutions participating in the work of the Island Council. And it is certainly commendable that from the first reading to this second reading has changed into an article. 37. The island law relating to Prescription and attribution of small support procedures [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] the value of employers carrying out economic activity. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52490	Thank you. We've got more replicas on your exhibit. I'm the first representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52491	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Baričević, you come from the island and in your presentation you mentioned entrepreneurs. I believe that you are familiar with the problem that individual entrepreneurs have that do not have the ability to connect to a public power grid and I believe that you will also support the initiative that caterers, trade craftsmen and the like who in such places operate have high energy prices that in some way either subsidize them or enable the use of blue diesel because it requires extremely high costs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52492	Dear representative Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52493	Dear MPs, I support this initiative that you have said since I come from the island of Brac, our stoners who have these problems in their business areas and are not connected to the public and electrical network. And I certainly support this proposal that we go to ensure that they all have an electric network available, i.e. subsidized oil or what they are already using for their business.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52494	Replica of respected MPs Selak-Raspudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52495	This law also speaks of road traffic, which is the price of maps trying to bring about more equal, although it cannot be a fully equal position for islanders with those living in coastal settlements. However, it seems to me from my own experience that much greater or at least the same problem on the islands is not only the price of the map, but the frequency of island transport. So these lines are relative, the possibility of connecting the island especially islands that are, say, Ciovo – Trogir and connected to the mainland compared to the connection of the rest of the coast and other places is much rarer. So people can't consume the benefits of road traffic, which then leaves them at the mercy of different private entrepreneurs and high prices in the season. Is the state going to do anything about solving this problem?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52496	Dear representative Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52497	Thank you very much for your question. It is certain that the vast differences in living conditions compared to those of the more distant islands are smaller islands that are further away from the land than those of the great ones. Of course, we need to keep in mind the greater link between island connections and availability and line carriers. I certainly believe that by 2030 precisely in this National Development Strategy and smart islands there will be opportunities to improve them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52498	The Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52499	Thank you very much. Kolice Baričević you are from the island of Brac, the island of Brac has eight units of local self-government. So on one island we have eight more islands to express myself like that. And I'm kind of convinced that when, although it was always an idea and tried to get them to try some spatial plans together, it didn't work out, because you know as well as I do that the Chinese walls are in between. But joke aside. So when we talk about the development of the island, when we talk about the possibility that these islands are going a step forward, it's safe to look at the entire space. And what you do, because development programs need to be viewed for the whole space. Of course, one of the hottest programs is the development of tourism. Now if each unit of local self-government will make its own development of tourism it will not be good. I'm reading this amendment to the law and I'm reading it that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52500	Thank you very much. Dear representative Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52501	Thank you very much, Your Honor. You're absolutely right. Since I come from Brač, I know that many of these units, or all these units of local self-government, have different needs, but have common goals. Just how familiar I am they often do these coordinations where they try to work together to agree on important topics as well as spatial plans and the future of development in general of the island as we all look at it as a whole. And it's not always easy, not everyone can make a deal. So in the future, we need to think about how reforms can solve something, in one way and the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52502	The Republic also has a respected representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52503	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, it is well known how important it was to achieve actually a brand of Croatian island product. What is important is that this programme actually valorizes the knowledge of which it produces on the island itself, so we know then what created it significantly to do certain products but also to promote them. And here, in these new amendments, the ministry also grants certain financial grants for promotion with the fact that it is now more detailed who and how it can even seek these grants, and that this tradition continues and in one way continues to promote both tourists and domestic citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52504	Representative Baricevic has an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52505	Thank you, well-respected representative Grozdana Peric, for your question. On our islands truly live people of value who create, process their own land with their own hands, and thus somehow cultivate tradition, that island tradition, and also create brands. And our tourists in summer seasons love to come and hear that island story. It's not easy to live on islands, but here I am as an island island and a tough island and you're actually dense and you love that life on the island. We certainly welcome this promotion of the Croatian island product programme, it has brought a lot of additional value to our valuable family farms. Certainly in the future we should see that, that not only tastes and smells are rewarded but that this spreads here we have heard today through knowledge and through youth so that we should watch that expand right now. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52506	The Republic also has a respected representative, Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52507	Since you come from the same club as my colleague Marko Pavić, and he hasn't answered my question about agglomerations if you know how much of this information you don't know, if you don't know, please ask Mrs. Secretary to answer me how many agglomeration projects have been projected on the islands so far, and if we might have information on how many of these projects are actually launched, how many works are launched on these projects if we have that information. Another question for you personally, given that you are coming from the island of Brac, do you know what activities have been launched on the island of Brac in relation to the Smart Island of Brac project and at which stage is the agglomeration project on the island of Brac. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52508	Dear representative Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52509	Thank you very much for your question, but regarding agglomeration, I'm sure the Ministry will answer that question for you. And related to the island of Brac, here I am pleased that in the programme, in the programme of the board of the islands for 2021, the public tender came from our island of Brac 8 units of local self-government and that there were millions and 300 thousand kunas to invest in small capital projects and certainly this government is taking care of investment in not only the island of Brac but in all the islands in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52510	Thank you. The next debate will be respected representatives of Katarina Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52511	Good day, everyone, as with a number of other debates, and in this one, we have this feeling that everything is wonderful when we listen to the HDZ side's proposals, but as in that joke and the patient died, the surgery is successful, we always feel like there's something missing. In any case, when we talk about islands, then as with all other things, we can say that the best indicator of HDZ's statistics policy is the success. And statistics are inexorable, so material indicators of deprivation and poverty. A scale on which we unfortunately grow on an unpopular scale every year. It's the only scale in which we have better indicators from year to year. And material indicators of deprivation and poverty if they look dramatic at national level then they look the most dramatic at the island level. All the bad things on the islands look worse. I would be kept here for two measures that bring these amendments and the additions to the laws most discussed, meaning the subsidy of water and the economy, meaning Article 33, Article 37, and something I mentioned with a change from the first to the second reading of Article 36(a). What is most important, therefore, is the subsidisation of water, and others have asked that question here, so it is not only the word that the consumption of water is subsidized by households, but also the consumption of water by economic operators. And the question arises is whether we're talking about ecological water subsidies if some of them are going to use that water for swimming pools. So we will literally throw water in a way that subsidizes private owners of water consumption for swimming pools. We know that the state subsidized and built the pool to private renters. What would be important is to introduce some kind of property censorship and some criteria for water subsidies. You can see the meaning of these other measures that there are criteria such as the Croatian island product, that there are criteria to which something is subsidized. We don't have these criteria here, and we don't have property censorship. The water for human consumption here is undefined, so in what form it will be spent. Also when we talk about the production and accumulation of water, we could talk about the ecological forms of accumulation of production that existed on the islands as a traditional, traditional way of accumulation of water so-called water. Lizards. Some other technological solutions have been discussed here, but lizards are also something that ecological, ecological associations warn that it should be revitalised and that the necessary accumulation of water could be achieved through this form of water collection. In any case, the irrational use of water here won't be safe, it won't be monitored. As for these solarists I asked about, that's what the second article means for the 37th and the economies to be financed. In our national strategy and in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, we do not have solutions to overcome and skeletal economic structures based on tourism, on service activities that do not have the ability to produce added and high added value. Here, the State Secretary replied to me so that there is no strategy here in this sense or that all the economics can answer this call but there is indeed a lack of some development strategy that would direct this production in the right direction. And now I'm going to say there's also a criticism of the SDP government as to the very development of the island's economy, it's not just reserved for HDZ, one of the ugliest images we've ever linked to the SDP government is really sending the intervention police to the Adriaticamen to Brač, so pictures of workers, jobs and production are related to that image. But there really is no development policy here that would go in the direction of prevailing the oscillating economic structure, meaning these service activities, which could be overcome even more intensively by solar production. We had a factory in Novigrad, but she was uncompetitive. Like it's gonna be no. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Competitive and everything else we produce in this way. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52512	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first respected representative Selak Rasdic. Please remain colleagues, Peović, have colleagues' replicas, first respected MPs Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52513	I agree that we need a serious economic turn and it will not seem to happen because we also saw this in this new resistance and recovery project where we again rely thoroughly on service activities and tourism that have no high added value. However, when we talk about islands if it is a priority to keep the population on islands, and most islanders today have switched to tourism activity, partly because in Croatia the work is not paid because of the way they are taxed, why do you think it would be bad for them to have more water at their disposal so that they will also benefit not only for personal needs but also indirectly in their tourist activity?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52514	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52515	What is problematic is the ecological dimension means the use of water for swimming pools in this direction has been my criticism, and if we were to talk about restoring economic activity on the island in a way that we really focus on producing more added value then we certainly shouldn't be on tourism alone. Agricultural production and food industry should be restored and revitalised, and what is very important is why I reacted to this article. The 36th century concentrate on cooperatives. So cooperative is the form and way of overcoming the crisis we're in, with us not enough and focusing. There are very few cooperatives with us compared to the EU, we are at the very beginning, and cooperatives could revitalise the economy on the islands, but indeed lead to a more democratic form of production that we still need today.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52516	The Republic has a respected representative named Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52517	Thank you. My colleague Peovic, I completely agree with you, at least it was my subjective feeling that one of the ugliest images during the SDP government was the sending or handling of the police in this case that you mentioned, since it was my birthplace, but this has to do with the SDP government only in the time frame because the police were not acting on anyone's order from the SDP government, from the government and from the state structures at all but acting on the orders of the Commercial Court in Split. The moment the police refuse the court's order to do so, we no longer have the state, the law, the judiciary, the police, and what they are, they're better than complete anarchy. Therefore, since I remember those days, I agree with the picture, but the SDP government only has calendars.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52518	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52519	Well, it's hard to believe, I have to say it has nothing to do with the SDP government. We don't often see pictures of the intervention police entering industrial plants, and we see them too often. But in any case, that picture was very much related to Milanovic's government at the time and at all the policies that were being led. Not only could the Prime Minister's office respond to this, but economic activity, at all, a policy aimed at economic development was completely missed during Milanovic's government when everything and everything was privatised, the privatisation of shipyards that were not needed at all today to view only the results of these privatisations, the entry of Končar into Brodotrogir, the shutting down of the Uljanik, means all these are consequences, not only of changes to the ZOR, or the Labour Act adopted in 2014 where all workers' rights are really suspended. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52520	Thank you. Now finally, on behalf of the Club of Representatives, the Mosta will speak to the respected representative Marija Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52521	The very intensity of this law is positive, and in this sense, of course, we, like most constituencies, support that our island residents get a larger amount of water available, almost double, before the tourist season. However, when we ask the key question, which is whether this legislative proposal will generally solve the problem of water supply on the islands and whether it will be managed for all islands, then we come up with that fundamental problem that this increase in available water will not solve the problem on all islands because many of them cannot even get water supplies. So we move further towards possible solutions and stress that an innovative turn is needed to enable strategic projects, projects of strategic importance for Croatia which is a country that has over a thousand islands that would allow solar desalination of water. Then we come to the conclusion that this is not a Croatian strategic priority because we will use the funds of the eu funds or we will use them if we really succeed and attract them. So, most of the funds that I've put into question are which are provided and which should be provided by the Croatian budget, which we often would not believe exists if we listen to debates within these benches because all we're talking about are the eu funds that will solve all our problems, for key development projects that would show the initiative and allow all islands to have a lasting availability of water, we leave it to someone else to call, perhaps to private entities and to compete for eu funds. And the ministries, as we could hear from fellow Pavic, did here and there some conversations on that trail. The issue of water availability is not just a question of the amount of water per island resident, it is a question and, in general, a communal infrastructure that has been sub-cated for the amount of tourists received each year and up to the level to be literally waiting to explode. We have an out-of-date municipal infrastructure across the coast and on all islands that are scheduled for some 1000 to 2 inhabitants, and during the season, as we all know, this number is tenfold bigger, so whether these sewers will explode, which is not even metaphoric, but has happened in some places during the season, or we will systematically commit ourselves to solving this problem without exclusively partial water-lifting resolution, and leaving this whole time and limited infrastructure to survive, so this is the basic problem when we talk about the amount of available water. Now we're really at the level of the war on the islands, when someone starts to shower on you then everyone's pressure falls so much that the neighbors or you in the same house go to the level of a few drops of water. So this is the reality of life on Croatian islands during the tourist season, showering by hour, and not at the same time, so we have a serious problem with water availability. Another problem of the island is that they are Croatia in small. When we see what the coast looks like on the islands, to what extent it has been devastated and how it has been built on it and how it has been fenced so that everyone has a piece under the sky, then we can only see what the consequences of the many years of HDZ rule that has devastated the coast to such an extent that people have no sense of public good, no trust in maritime good, but everyone cares exclusively for their square feet of coast that protects and at the cost of their own life, and hence so many conflicts on islands around private property, and it does not exist in public, nor in culture. All of this is not an accident, it did not just come to life in the minds of the people, but it was the result of a great mistrust in the multi-annual public policy of the governing structure. Finally, here we were talking not only about water, but also about traffic connection, and that's where I'm going to rediscover that key problem. There is no problem with the island and transport on the islands only the price, the problem is traffic connection, which will be the cheapest thing in the world if you can take that bus several times a day and rarely go to other places on the coast, even when you are well connected. Until such transport can be used to the same extent as on the coast, the price will remain a dead letter on paper for those living on the islands and being used.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-11-0.u52522	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met.
