ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u57772	Following is the presentation of the position on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Mosta, respected representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u57773	Dear Vice-President of HS Mr. Sanader, dear colleagues, fellow Croatian peoples. Not Covid passports some utopian security. It's autumn, flu season, virus season, lung disease season. We know the Covid virus is seasonal, too. A very large growth began in Germany yesterday, the largest number of people infected in the last 5 months, as well as in Austria, and major growth in Italy. And we have the growth of the infected, even though we've already spoken several times, we've even heard the ruling that they will no longer be counted only infected, or infected, but only those who are hospitalized, I don't know where some break happened, let some little bit and advise on it among themselves. Germany, Austria, Italy, all have a large range of vaccinations and intensive use of Covid passes and yet the result of huge growth of the infected. Here we have heard from the ruling ones what all research claims, that the vaccinated are also transmitted by Covid, not exactly the percentage that comes in favor of so much security in non-proliferation of the virus. That's why we have a situation where the vaccinated medical staff regularly transmits viruses to patients, and they're being tested unvaccinated because it doesn't make any sense, except for an agenda that pushes everything down a one-way street. It is not ethical to limit the movement of Covid passports, the right to work, the right of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to freedom, to life. Yesterday data from the UK were published that clearly speak what we have read so many times in professional magazines, natural immunity protects better than vaccines. We read about it here, and in mainstream media, for a wonderful miracle. People who are over Covid, and a large percentage of them in our society are actually marginalized, although they themselves are much safer for others, even than those who are twice vaccinated. It is unacceptable to blackmail students and workers with vaccines. In Rijeka, for example. Students and some Zagreb colleges are diphtheriad in a way to put them, those who have been vaccinated, on one side of the classroom, those who are not, on the other. Well, that's, uh, my people are inadmissible, so where do we live? So what kind of democracy is that, what's going on? So in many schools, we have great difficulties. Directors, classmates in fear, and we know that in fear of big eyes, they send entire classes into self-insulation, the quality of teaching, I'm not going to say that it's in catastrophic condition, but it doesn't exist. It doesn't exist. Here's the situation from Zagreb school. The whole class was sent to self-insulation because watch out, one kid took a drug test that was positive. And now, the whole class is three days out of class because it's waiting for the results of the repeat PCR test to figure out who's actually going into isolation. Well, that's amazing. So I ask the ruling not to succumb to the scarecrows. There is simply no security in this world, wherever we may be. There's no certainty here, I'd say only in God, is there, but I'm letting others see security elsewhere. So, risk groups, old, sick, threatened, those with diabetes, know that the vaccine protects them more from the most severe consequences and death. It hurts me personally that no one wants to take responsibility for either the state or the producers for all side effects of vaccination, there are few. And it pains me that the scarecrows are pushing us into some probably lockdowns, and they're actually bringing nothing but mental illness, destroying the physical health of the nation, destroying recreation, sports and destroying the entire economy. The state did what it had to do, provided the vaccination to anyone who wanted to be vaccinated. Now we have to let the citizens continue to be responsible for who we are, we take care of our lives, we take care of our health, we care, we care about our behavior. Covid and I are going to have to live a long, long life, and that's why it's inadmissible now to destroy life because this burden of Covida is waiting for us for a long, long time to carry it. And you know what I don't want Croatia in which impatience will spread in any dimension and vaccinated and unvaccinated citizens of this country. My colleagues and colleagues let me set an example here and send a message that in this country every man is worth the same, whether he is a Orthodox, Muslim, Protestant, Catholic, Jewish member of any other religion, agnostic or atheist, and even if he is unvaccinated he should equally be worth this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u57919	Following is the statement on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, respected representative Ljubomir Kolarek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u57920	Thank you, well-respected chairman, colleagues and fellow councilmen. I would first say a few sentences of importance and importance for food, food production and the simple course of current agricultural production. We would all like to eat in the Republic of Croatia healthy food, famous origins, make it home and make it as accessible to all of us as possible. On the other hand, farmers would like to have as profitable, normal production as possible, that it does not cost much and sell its product at one price that will satisfy them, not enrich them. The resolution ministries, both the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development and the Ministry of the EU Funds, have done and have done a great deal so far to improve our agricultural production and technologically, buying quality machines, technological equipment, all of this goes to a higher level, but then we come at a time today. The time of the crown, the post-corona, does not know what a man would call it and happens that there is no imbalance between wartime and livestock production. The production of corn, wheat is relatively good, the price is extremely high, on the other hand, the production of livestock products, i.e. in particular what I'm going to talk about, pig and tow pigs is extremely expensive and right now, these days my farmers call me that they have extra blankets, extra tow pigs that they would sell just to get rid of them because they have more production together. Why am I saying that? Because 15 kuna live scales are currently minimum minimum, 11 kuna tow pigs, I think it's 0 or below zero, but people can't take it anymore, because the price of corn is enormously high, the production of corn this year is going to be slightly lower, but the price is still high. So I hope that the resolution ministry will do everything possible to simply resolve these surpluses of livestock products, especially breeding and tow pigs from the market, so that our agricultural producers can function normally because everyone talks to them, say Christmas and New Year's Eve. By Christmas and New Year's, it's two months away, and I think it's too long to wait. I believe that the Resort Ministry will do everything to simply solve the problem of excess livestock, excess breeding and pigs, to distribute them further or to slaughter them or further so that they have healthy, quality meat, healthy, quality food domestic food for the times ahead, and those times are certainly not very simple. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u57921	We're going back to the debate. Following is the statement of view on behalf of the IDS Representatives Club, the esteemed representative Marin Leritoc.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u58020	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the economic and economic situation in our country is not good, and that is what our fellow citizens feel every day. At this point, we have an inflation increase of over 2%, which we will agree on is not the responsible state or is not responsible for this government. However, they are responsible for what is being done in order to enable our fellow citizens to continue as normal a life. At this point, we have almost 700,000 if not more citizens living on the edge of poverty and the question is whether a further rise in prices that we can monitor every day is going to fall below that poverty line. And the second question that arises is what the government or state is doing in terms of maintaining price stability as our fellow citizens, so that our fellow citizens can live normally. What we've seen so far is that oil derivatives prices have stabilized, of course at the supplier's expense in the next 30 days, and then we'll see what happens next and what will be the government's next moves. Because the question arises if prices are already rising as we enter the Eurozone, and recently I was saying that I am the advocate of entering the Eurozone because I believe that we will profit and that our citizens will be better off. And as if that's not enough, we've got bigger and bigger announcements of interest hikes on loans. At this point, we have 142 billion kunas in debt to our citizens, which is about 39% of our citizens' loans with variable interest. But what's interesting is when we look at the governor's statement as if it's a little bumpy. He mentioned this increase in interest on loans, which was then asked for his explanation, that then the Ministry of Finance would have been talking about the increase in interest for 3 years, and no one had talked about it, no one had written, no one was interested. And we have repeatedly warned from this IDS Club speaker about the vulnerability of the economy, about the dependence on tourism that is more than 25% of the stake within Croatia's GDP, which brings us to an uncertain situation this time, how the Croatian economy and the economy will behave. And the answer has always been, so we have EUR 24 billion at our disposal, and just because we have a vulnerable economy, a vulnerable economy that depends on tourism, that's why we have EUR 24 billion. And that's the problem. It's a problem that's not being solved, there's no idea, no way the government's showing that we're going towards a solution. So we talked from this pay phone for several months and appealed to solve the problem of BAT, to solve the problem of production, and it waited so long to save 500 jobs in Kanfanar without talking about the production of raw materials both in Slavonia and in other parts of Croatia. And what I'm going to touch for is the government's debt, or public debt. In late March this year, 91.3% of GDP was GDP, and in the same period in 2020 it was lower by 17.6%. Compared to 2020, we now have an increase of 17.6%, and projections have announced a decrease in public debt but the question is now whether this is reality. How this will affect Eurozon entry, how the state will address deficit problems. Is this by reducing the expenditure that we will see when the budget is presented for 2022, is it new by borrowing and will there be any interest because we know that when we're in debt, we're in debt with a fixed interest rate, we're in debt with a variable interest rate, and how are we going to compensate for the increase in these expenditures? Will we, I repeat, cut expenses or re-indemnify ourselves in order to patch up interest increases or new charges? And those are questions, and the public deserves answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u58106	Following is the statement on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u58107	Dear MPs and MPs, we were complained by the unfortunate minister in charge of rebuilding that he had not heard from the opposition any constructive proposals so far. And since the original proposal of the Rehabilitation Act that we discussed last summer provides a record number of amendments, perhaps it could be concluded that there is no renewal because the minister has no good hearing, does not hear well. Unfortunately, the problem isn't so prosa and so banal. There is no renewal because the minister in charge of the reconstruction has no idea, and there is no knowledge of how the reconstruction should be carried out. The unfortunate minister still needs to be helped not because he deserves it but because the citizens deserve it, so the Club of the Party Center and the Party of GLAS has submitted the most constructive proposal so far. And that's because we've put a motion in the parliamentary procedure to put the complete Rehabilitation Act out of effect. All opposition representatives, as well as others, who are thinking about whether they will be able to walk without shame for 3, 5 or 10 years among their fellow citizens when reality will strip to the bone into what the restoration has turned not to calculate this time. When the first law was passed, many who are criticising him today voted for or at best remained abstentions, and only four votes voted against it. From the ex post knowledge those citizens who trusted in the words of those who voted for the law have no benefit, none of us. The citizens were deceived, mauled, and further without a roof over their heads. And it's hard to watch the same story repeat again. In this law, everything is absolutely wrong. It's a slow goal and an idea that should be achieved with the restoration. If we are talking about Zagreb, Zagreb, without the consequences of the earthquake, needed complete urban reconstruction, not only of the building, but of the infrastructure that shoots everywhere. That is why the idea of restoring Zagreb through the method of social patches is completely wrong. Zagreb needs to be fully restored, with the idea of growth in its value and thus transforming, through large plan investments, the reconstruction into construction and reconstruction of work, and if we are talking about the reconstruction of Banija, it needs one that means revitalisation of the area that had died demographically and economically before the earthquake. Furthermore, the financial model by which a complete reconstruction without economically and socially reasonable correction is transferred to the burden of the state budget is wrong. The institutional model is also wrong because the state has nothing to do with public procurement for the restoration of private houses, nor should new bodies be set up as funds in order for politics to have an opportunity in the enormous mass of financial flows, re-route most of the funds into the pockets of their constituents, and the only correct way is to put the law entirely out of force. And if that proposal were to be accepted, the rest of this day and the debate could be used in a better way. By abolishing the Rehabilitation Act, we would show citizens that HS is capable in historically important issues of defending the fraud and deception of citizens. And unfortunately, this H.S. meeting with a council majority like this isn't. And two are very banal and very simple examples on which I will show how much this Law is under no. 1 unnecessary, and under no. Two, broken. So, that the law is unnecessary, it shows the fact of life, and after more than a year of its adoption, there is no renewal. It didn't even begin, what is being renewed, is being restored beyond this Act, according to the Construction Act, and this has proved what individual opposition MPs warned about, but a whole united profession, urbanists, architects, builders, all of them warned that we didn't need this Law of Reconstruction, and time has shown that it was true. So what is being renewed is being renewed under existing laws, and thus this Rehabilitation Act was only a distraction for this unfortunate Minister of Reconstruction, a truly devastating circumstance. And another very banal and prosaic example shows how corrupt this Law is. Therefore, the Minister of Reconstruction, or Minister of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property, will pass under this Act, be careful now, the Regulation which, in accordance with anti-corruption protection measures, regulates the rules on the procurement of goods, services and works. So, one minister who, even from the third attempt, was unable to come up with a law that is within the domain of his ministry because he has no idea and no knowledge from this area that even in theory should be his profession, if not his own, then at least to the people of his ministry he engages in the design of anti-corruption protection in public procurement procedures. So that's at the disposal of the funds that will to finance all taxpayers placed in the hands of a political party who is legally convicted of corruption. [[Intruder: Time.]] What could go wrong? Absolutely everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u58163	As I have announced now are taking a stand on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives, but we will wait a minute and a half, two minutes so that it will be at 1 hour because it is usually according to our agreement at 1 hour and that we do not damage anyone because the first, first speaking colleague is not at this moment in the assembly. So we start at exactly 1. So, we begin with the point of saying the position on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives, is the first colleague in front of the Homeland Movement, colleague Ruzica Vukovac, has no right to lose, and the second is Mr. Marko Milanović litre, who will present the position of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u58164	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues in the euro area are a major challenge for the Croatian economy, economy and democracy. The public debate is already an education of the Croatian people and should be the goal of our government during the next period. We should stop dealing with the appearance of coins and discuss the rate of introduction of the euro i.e. all the problems and opportunities ahead of the Croatian and Croatian people. The idea of a common currency was created with the aim of making different peoples who have a 100-year history of conflict and war peaceful economic association. But instead of becoming a currency that unites countries that have been historically conflicted, the euro has become a currency that has created economic and political problems and divisions. Scientific papers show that regardless of origin and economic doctrine or political membership of the euro has become increasingly a source of problems for the EU, not matter linking Member States and peoples. This fact was warned by many world experts who were right-wing conservative like Friedman or left-handed like Stiglic. Economists dealing with the applied economy as well as participants in the capital market clearly indicate that the euro in its current construction is a problem, and that the euro is in trouble and that the future of the euro is at stake. Regardless of warnings from a wide range of serious people, the government of the Republic of Croatia has decided politically, rather than economically, to introduce the euro as quickly as possible into Croatia. Regardless of the possible economic consequences, without serious economic analysis and what is most important without the critical thinking of the arguments of scientists primarily dealing with the analysis of monetary policy Croatia entered REM 2 system. The introduction of the euro was presented to the Croatian people as a final act. There must be a public debate in Croatia that will also hear critical thinking about the introduction of the euro. Initially, the convergence criteria for the introduction of the euro were based on clearly defined figures, and today they are based on expected future figures. In their theory, these criteria are perfect, clearly defining the monetary and financial characteristics that are needed in order to move on to the common currency. But what is not mentioned anywhere is economic growth, employment rates, or unemployment, imports, and exports. All of these are problems that the vast majority of Croatian citizens are not familiar with, and this is confirmed by the results of the poll ordered in front of the New Perspectives Association. The question with which the questionnaire began was whether you know that Croatia plans to introduce the euro in early 2023, with 97% of respondents responding positively. The following question wanted to know if the citizens think that a quality public debate is being held or whether Croatian citizens know enough reasons for and against the introduction of the euro? Only 23% of respondents consider that sufficient quality discussions have been conducted and that they have sufficient information and on the other hand 77% consider them the opposite. The respondents were then asked if they would like to hear the reasons why some member states such as Denmark, Sweden, Romania, Poland, Hungary did not introduce the euro. A high degree of interest in information was maintained and 73% of subjects confirmed that they wanted to know this information. Asked whether they think Croatia is ready for the introduction of the euro, 3 responses were offered, 27% of respondents believe we are ready for the introduction of the euro, 56% believe we are not and 17 are not considered to be sufficiently informed. At the end of the study, as many as 60% of respondents believe that the exchange of kuna with the euro should be decided through referendums, i.e. the citizens of the Republic of Croatia must express their will. Taking into account yesterday's announcements by the relevant European political portals, which cite our Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic as one of the main candidates for the 2024 takeover, which states in the same text that Croatia is not part of the euro area or entry into the euro area and Schengen, it is clear by this examination and by this fact why Andrej Plenkovic is personally afraid of the referendum and the public debate on the introduction of the referendum and why he wants to put all the forces out of every critical debate in Croatia on this topic. Here for the end, I would only ask to paraphrase the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Croatia must not be the hostage of Andrej Plenkovic and his personal ambitions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u58284	The next statement is on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the respected representative Sanja Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u58285	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, you probably remember a few months ago we had a burning situation regarding the status of students who completed professional studies and for equating their status on the labour market, but also in the very system of higher education compared to university studies. So that's how the SDP Club wrote its bill, referred it to the parliamentary procedure, ruling it neatly put it at the bottom of the agenda, and then nicely from word to word, that same bill was rewritten and put it on the top of the agenda and as such, we supported it. We have warned that another problem is very current except for the status of graduate students of professional studies, which is therefore the situation with several thousand of our fellow citizens who have completed postgraduate specialist studies and have obtained academic names from university specialists of certain studies. I'll just say that one such study costs between 30 and 60,000 kuna and that they are actually introduced into the Croatian system of higher education and science as a sort of substitute for the then master of science that has not been acquired since 2003. According to the list of postgraduate specialist studies at the University of Zagreb today, such studies are carried out in 192, and there are over 270 such studies throughout our country. So I'm going to repeat this is about a few thousand of our fellow citizens who report to us every day at a club of MPs. I will also remind you that, in accordance with Article 53 of the Basic Collective Contract for Officials and PSOs, the right to increase the salary of 8% remains exclusively for workers who have a degree of master of science. We do not want to say that the mastery of science is the same as the university specialist study, but was introduced into the Croatian system of higher education as his replacement and so we need to treat it. Now it turns out that when you complete a successful postgraduate university study the situation for you is far from wonderful. Studies have stood by again between 30 and 60,000 kuna, many of our fellow citizens still pay loans to cover their tuition, and the right to an 8% salary allowance has not yet been realised. The Joint Commission for the Interpreting of the Collective Contract for Officials and Paid in Public Services has also reached a conclusion in 2011 where they claim and interpret that since the right to increase the basic salary of 8% has so far been achieved by the masters of science, this right must be passed on to workers who have completed postgraduate specialist studies. And they say in this interpretation of their collective contract, given the proposals and the findings that since 2003, there is no possibility of obtaining a scientific degree of master of science and given the fact that specialist studies have become the next degree of education after a graduate university study, the commission will submit a proposal to the contracting parties of the collective contract to amend the said article of the contract. As I stated, it was a long time ago in 2011, 10 years later university specialists are still waiting, the ministry almost daily issuing permits to conduct these specialist studies. In the future, the participants of these programmes are promised an 8% salary supplement as well as an even status on the labour market, as the masters of science once had. Of course, there are examples of good practice in all of this, so we cannot say that we cannot. One of such good examples is the collective contract for officials and tenants in the administrative bodies of Koprivnica and Križevci County where, if the official also has a scientific degree master's degree of science or an official who has acquired the name university specialist has the right to supplement the salary of 8%. The same case is also the case in the Collective Contract for Employees in the Preschool Institutions of the City of Zagreb, then for employees in the service of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, as well as for officials and tenants in the city's administrative bodies of the City of Zagreb. Therefore, there are examples of good practice where collective agreements recognise the increase in salaries for university specialists, therefore the question is raised as to how it is possible to recognise acquired qualifications in the same country at the same time and elsewhere to degrade them. Such discrimination by university students is suggested that the state does not appreciate people who have been educated for years and that knowledge and effort are not at all important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u58357	Following is the position of the Social Democrats Club, respected Marina Opačak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u58358	Thank you, Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. If we were a small country of great absurdities, we could often say. But the next topic I'm going to talk about other than what's a big absurd is a big injustice. Because how else do you call a situation where you've been listening to promises for years? It is called the “Milan Amrus” OS in Slavonski Brod, which is the only school for children with developmental difficulties in the area and currently attends about 100 children from the County of Brod-Posavina and beyond. What is related to this school to the notion of absurdity is that they temporarily moved into the current space of the school back in 1975, and what binds this school to the concept of injustice is that in the last 10 years. We are listening intensively to promises of building a new adequate school space. And even though this subject is constantly being talked about, it's obviously not enough because absolutely nothing has changed in years. Even though promises are lower year by year, especially before some elections in the end, that promise has always prevailed. So cry out both parents and employees at the end and cry out all socially conscious citizens always stay at the bottom of the list of priorities and for years there has been no concrete response. Why is the construction of a new school being stopped to provide adequate working conditions? An object where children have been in over 40 years. temporarily located, does not meet the needs of children or education standards and is below all teaching and spatial standards. The classroom does not have enough, the rooms are too small, wet and deroute, to the extent that the noise is falling, and at times such damages are being remedied by fire measures. In addition, the current school is next to a road with a fully concrete courtyard, so the school has neither an adequate approach nor at least a green garden in which it would be comfortable to play and work outdoors. We know that care is about the most vulnerable images of society, so let me remind you that we care about the most vulnerable. So in early 2000, the first appeals for a new space began, but to this day, no kuna was spent by the state to show the real will to realize this project. Initially, for years there was no room in the state budget for execution, including financing the construction of a new facility, to finally, in the last 3 years of 2019, in '20. And now for '21. the item as such has been included and voted for execution, so the funds are secured, but they still remain only a dead letter on paper because the realisation is still gone. In haste, he didn't even encourage a parent protest here at Mark's square three years ago who literally begged the government to have mercy and to start building a new space for their children's education. And it is not clear to anyone what awaits when all pre-conditions are fulfilled. The town of Slavonski Brod financed the production of project documentation, secured land and obtained a building permit, and the planned new school building is planned for working with more children, for them about 250. And of course we're all wondering where it got stuck. For which reason this project is constantly bypassed even though the government boasts millions and billions invested in Slavonia no matter what they want to invest in an educational institution for children in Slavonia. I must say that I personally visited this school last year and personally became convinced of how much both school principals and employees are trying to ensure that in this inadequate space children have as much carefree atmosphere as possible and how much they are actually together with their parents, how patient they are, as I said, that the government has compassion for them and that they are going to build this through the necessary institution. So once again from this pay phone, I ask for children who attend school, on behalf of their parents, and on behalf of all citizens, for answers from the Government and the competent ministries. Why are the planned funds deprived from year to year and taken away from the most sensitive group of children who truly deserve the final achievement of the necessary conditions and why, to date, 5 million kuna in the state budget for this year, and the year is already at large, why has no kuna been spent so far? Why didn't it go into construction since the construction funds were secured and whether this year's work would start because there is money. So, it's planned, it's secure and it's got it, but someone's obviously not a priority, so it doesn't work out. I like you to get this project out of the scope of false promises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64221	Good morning, respected MPs and respected MPs, as we announced today's first vote. Proposal for a Decision appointing the Director-General of Croatian Radio Television, is proposed by the Committee on Information, Information and Media. The debate is closed. But before we go to the vote, we have a few requests for a break. Let's go in a row. First mate, Matula, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64222	Thank you, Mr. President. We're looking for a break on behalf of the Green-Left bloc to pick up again all the reasons why we won't definitely vote for Mr. Schwebb as head director of HRT. About the conflict of interest here was said I mean everything, but what's most important is that the issue of conflict of interest in which Mr. Schwebb is meeting with his 2 companies isn't something since yesterday. It's something that not only people in politics are talking about but all the critical public about not only speaking but also writing, it's free to say, you could see it in the inscriptions of the last 20 years intensely and for a reason. From the fact that Mr. Schwebb himself said that television actually made him open his first firm because it was legal at the time. In the meantime, we know that this is a conflict of interest, and even then at one point when he was charging his consulting services, he managed to advise television that after that, all these things he had to take back from his other firm, he would order the same year at a price of 2 million and 300,000 kuna. I think that's all the important reasons why we want to consult again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64223	The apartment is approved. We're going to another request, that's my colleague Rasdic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64224	On behalf of the Most Representatives' Club, I'm looking for the shortest break possible because we'll be fine with it. I am not asking for this short break so that I can consult with my colleague, Pupovac, and offer him further arguments why I should not support candidate Schweb and repeat that Schweb has submitted invalid documentation in which he has not issued a statement that the candidate is not in conflict of interest which explicitly seeks the text of the competition but rather not to be in conflict of interest if he becomes the principal director. His two companies, among other things, own five sports channels that will be broadcast for at least 10 years, and it's hard to believe that he'll care how these channels operate when they own his partner or someone else. Mr. Schweb directly severely damaged HRT as director of television when he received a warrant from HRT's leadership in 2008 to apply to the rights to transfer the World Handball Championship, he did not do so on his own, and he shamelessly left the HRT. The real one got RTL, which then began its take-off, and later the Swedish companies worked for RTL. However, all this is well known by Pupovac and others, and therefore no further argument needs to be made. We at the MOST Club, as well as the opposition in general, have done everything we can to prevent this choice. I appeal to honest people on HRT to stand up to this as much as they do. But I'm saying I'm not looking for a brief break for it, but I'm looking for it so that we can leave the Most Club in peace, I'm calling on the rest of us to do the same thing, this session, because we don't want to physically see any further rolling in the mud of conflict of interest and corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64225	And this break has been approved. Now it's my friend Whitey's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64226	Let's say good-bye. Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the Club of Assembly Representatives of the HSS and the Workers' Front, I am looking for a break of 10 minutes, and in order to further consult, but also to warn all fellow MPs and representatives of a number of appeals that I have personally, and I believe that many of us from the opposition get in the past few days from the present but also former HRT employees, of whom I would not naturally mention anyone by name and last name, but I must say that among others we have addressed and impressed HRT, a man who has led the most popular show on HRT for 30 years and who told me Kreso please try to do everything possible to prevent this shameful appointment. We had, quote, his words, a Radman who was a disaster, and what's being prepared is a total disaster. So, I will appeal in particular to the ruling majority's representatives not to do so, that is, their right but I am sure they have many candidates who would be much better and without conflict of interest acting as function, responsible management function with a billion and 500 million kuna of taxpayers' funds, and that Mr. Schweb cannot possibly be for many reasons that we have already heard several times in this Croatian Assembly. So, with all the arguments that the opposition has instructed, I will today state the argument of dozens and dozens of present and former HRT employees, and all of the political spectrum from the far left to the far right.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64227	Thank you. She's been granted a break. Now it's my fellow Bartulica's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64228	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the Homeland Movement, I'm also looking for a break. A lot has been said so far in this debate. We know that the procedure has actually been deeply contaminated since the beginning, the ruling majority at one point had to admit it, and that is why we have an extraordinary vote today. We have long argued that Croatian institutions are actually trapped by the ruling structures, that they are not properly serving their purpose for political reasons, various pressures, influences, and open abuses of these institutions. Mr. Schwebb is actually a symptom of this practice and it needs to be interrupted once. He cannot successfully carry out his job and this mandate because it was originally doomed. So we appeal once again to the ruling majority to think about what it's doing, whether it's really in the interest of HRT, and the public to force once again something that wasn't right at first. We in the Homeland Movement will certainly continue to raise our voice persistently against such practices of setting up and actually setting up the wrong people who and young children can see that they are in conflict of interest. This is unfortunately seen from numerous examples, so do not continue this practice, do not feed cynicism that already exists in Croatia, show that you can do otherwise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64229	The apartment is approved. My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64230	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, I am looking for a break to consult once again on the approach to this vote, but also to state the reasons why we cannot support Mr. Schwebb's election as head director of HRT. The Director-General of HRT shall be appointed for a period of 5 years, 5 years. HRT, and hence the person who is headed by it with nearly 7 billion kuna. We're voting today on someone who's going to be in the next 5 years. dictate that 7 billion kuna is spent that comes directly from the pockets of Croatian citizens through the tax. And that is why it is extremely important who this person will be and that is why it is extremely important that a person with 7 billion kunas of Croatian citizens do not have a conflict of interest. In Mr. Schwebb's case, that's not the case. It is about someone who has serious indications that his private personal interest conflicts with the public interest, with the interest of Croatian citizens and who will not be able to protect the public function of the information service objectively, truly, impartially, nor will guarantee that the money on HRT is spent in an adequate manner, however, it is not all. Neither during this debate nor from Mr. Schwebb nor from the ruling majority have we been guaranteed to break up with the practice of lawsuits against journalists, censorship at HRT, favoring the ruling party, appointed interviews with the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, any guarantee that this propaganda practice will cease instead of information, and that is why we in the SDP, Mr. Schwebb, will not support the head of HRT. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64231	The apartment will be approved. Here you go, buddy Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64232	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. The SDSS representative club will provide conditional support to the candidate for HRT director for the next reason. We expect that the structures that de facto manage HRT will be run by HRT for years in the way they lead the changes. And secondly, we expect HRT to start to professionalise, modernise and make a creative media house. This trust is conditional on the implementation of the HRT programme by the first reporting deadline. This is our way of supporting the new director to start setting up the state of the public service of HRT. We don't know any better, and we don't know a better place where such a thing could happen except here in HS, where by law, such a role is given. Since we haven't had any luck with any of the previous directors, and we're not going to disqualify at the beginning of the one who is now the proposed candidate, we're going to give him a chance and we're going to give him time to do so, and that's our right and our obligation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64233	Stanka will be approved, and now it's time for a colleague of the Hood, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64234	Thank you, Mr. President. The HDZ Club is looking for a break. Why are we doing this?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64235	Just take off your Capula fellow mask so we can hear you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64236	Why are we doing this? Not to be further consulted on candidates supported by HDZ representatives on the parent media committee. We do not need additional consultations for this, and we will also support Robert Schwebb as director of HRT when voting at this plenary session. We made that decision after talking to the candidates, after studying their programmes and their references, we did our duty within which we were invited to propose to the Parliament a name that would, on the basis of its references, programmes and what he showed during the discussion on the Media Committee, be suitable and come into consideration for the directorial position, but we sought a break for another reason. To consult again on what is problematic, and what they now show in their requests for a break and opposition clubs. So, the green-left bloc needs a break to see why they won't vote for the candidate for the director of HRT, perhaps they could use it to extend the list of names mentioned yesterday which, according to them, a similar director of HRT should be replaced from their positions as soon as he is elected director. The bridge asked for a break to repeat all the unfounded accusations that opposed the election of directors, and they left the assembly not because they did not respond to the candidate Robert Schwebb but because none of the proposed 13 candidates who appeared did not meet their criteria, and HSS Club and Workers' Front [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And that, I won't... [[Intruder: Thank you, fellow Capula.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64237	Thank you. The apartment is approved. Now it's your turn, fellow Skoro, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64238	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I am looking for a break on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club, because we also want to consult in some way further and to stress that we have not participated in this game since the very beginning. We don't know if Mr. Schwebb will be a better director than this one. Obviously, as soon as someone from entrepreneurship is automatically doubted his credibility and automatically called for a conflict of interest, however, the one who has been appointed Croatian, president of the HRT, the director just got out of prison still works normally there. In which conflict he was interested, when he was appointed, about that path. We are explicitly opposed to the procedure in which the quorum is thought to be 5 of the Committee's 13 members present. We are explicitly opposed to a procedure in which the law, which has been subject to the vote of the people who voted, is called the Director under that law. We are opposed to games where people are offended, called primitive and uneducated and unargumented. We are opposed to the whole story, and yet we are being built on it because nothing will happen after the appointment of the new director except that the director will finally be appointed and that HRT will have a director. But the demographics will continue to be bad, the economy will be bad, we are not renewed since the earthquake, we are going to debate again today about this law that was bad at the very beginning and it will be bad and after today's debate, fuel prices will rise, Covid will continue to rage, and of course no one will support, let's say, an initiative to ask the people if it's the right time to introduce the euro into the Republic of Croatia. No matter what we've signed when we've signed the new director, too, they won't be able to help the people express their will, that's what's sad and that's why we won't support Mr. Schwebb. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64239	Stanka has been approved, but we have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, a respected colleague of Peovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64240	238, therefore, is the demeaning of MPs and MPs. So here were the words, fellow Capula accused us all, so the whole opposition that we didn't support any other candidate, which is not true, colleague. So our club and the Green-Left bloc club also supported Dari Spelic, meaning candidate for HRT director, so you're false.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64241	My colleague Peovic, you should have reacted immediately, so not now when my colleague Škoro spoke, I thought you had an injury to the Rules of Procedure, but fine. Nothing. You're getting a warning because this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure at all, it was a replica. Comrade Puljak, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64242	Here I come after Mr. Skora, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, 238, a demeaning of the MPs. Col. Skoro said, so all those who tried to use their legitimate right to stop the debate in the Parliament because the Rules of Procedure was injured, because they were injured, they called us, so that we were involved in the game, it's no show. It's my right. [[Thank you very much. Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64243	It's really a dictionary that's common in Parliament, normal, playback is really nothing that would require me to warn someone, but what you did will lead to you getting a warning. Comrade Skoro, you want a warning, too?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64244	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't think I'm going to get a warning because this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but as you've already seen it, here, I'm not going to speak in violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64245	Comrade Kuzmanić, you also have a request for a break, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64246	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the Social Democrats Club, I am not asking for a break so that we can further consult on how we will vote because we have already announced that we will not support Mr. Schwebb's appointment at the head of the HRT, but that in some way we are urging you as president and the ruling majority to reconsider what we are doing today, continue the policy of continuity, the policy led by Mr. Kazimir Bačić because there are serious indications that this process is deeply morally compromised, and the HRT service financed by Croatian citizens cannot and cannot become an extended hand of the ruling political nomenclature. It must be the public service of all citizens and HRT is much more than public television. It is extremely inadmissible to decide in this way, at the very least, sloppy and incompetent, on his fate. So we ask you to consider this today and maybe today to take this point off the agenda, call a new competition, no party cheers, no similar candidates, no pre-known results of how this contest will end because yet HRT is much more than a public service, it means a lot to our citizens, and we cannot allow it to decide its fate in this way. I'm not going to talk about a possible conflict of interest and everything they've heard here, but if that proves too, maybe this whole process will be ultimately illegal. Not to mention, some other laws may have been broken in the opening of the public tender itself. Of course it'll go to the board's soul then. I ask you once again to consider this, withdraw this item from the agenda and call a new competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64247	Is anyone else picking up for a break? No, I don't. Then we will apply Article 293b. So we'll keep working. We're going to the vote. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on HRT to make this decision requires a semi-half majority of all MPs. I am now voting on the Proposal for a Decision appointing Robert Schweb as head director of HRT. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? Check everything, okay, just a minute, come on, what's the matter? Okay. [[Intruder: Here it is.]] Now, let's do the next one, just stop for a second, and I'll repeat the vote so it's all clear. We'll repeat the vote that, yes, I wouldn't want any shadow to remain, please, I don't care, turn it off, turn it off and we'll do it again. Again, no, it wasn't 76, but first it was 75 because one wasn't nailed, so I want it to be no confusion again. Let's go again. I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision appointing Robert Schweb as head director of HRT. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? In total, 132 MPs and MPs voted, 77 were against and 55 were against and thus a decision was taken as proposed by the Committee on Information, Information and Media. So the decision to appoint Robert Schweb as head director of HRT passed. The SDP advocates club proposes a conclusion that reads. The HRT chief director is called on behalf of the HRT to withdraw claims brought against the HRT journalist and, due to alleged violations of HRT's reputation, by former head director Kazimir Bacic. I am putting the table to the vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 126 MPs and MPs voted, 51 for, 3 abstentions and 72 against and the proposed conclusion was not reached. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are done voting, now we will go further on the agenda. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are done voting, now we will go further on the agenda. Just a moment of attention, please. I have one dilemma, so we have three laws that are substantially connected. 2 are the same promoter that is 1 and 3, that is Minister Horvat, and the second is Minister Obuljen's law, but since they are substantially connected and the promoter is the Government, it is my suggestion that we discuss all three united. Is there anyone who's against such a proposal? ... 15 minutes for club talk, okay, okay. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] Do you all agree? Yeah, okay. Okay, then let's go that way, thank you very much. So, we will conduct the unification of the debate on: - The final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Reconstruction of Buildings damaged by an earthquake in the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje County, Zagreb County, Sisak-Moslavina County and the Karlova County, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. number 192 - Final proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Law on the State Inspectorate, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 194 Please colleagues and colleagues so what is this, just a little please. My colleagues and colleagues, then let me read, and then leave the assembly afterwards. And the third is: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 193. The proposal is proposed by the Government on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the proposing that these legislative proposals be discussed according to an urgent procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, the Committee on Economy and the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Now, I'm going to call the motionor's representative, but before that, we have requests for a break again. It's a colleague of the Dark-Taritash, just please a second. Comrades and colleagues, please take your seats, sit down. Coliga Vidović, Brumnic, Bernardić, please sit down so that colleague Mrak-Taritaš can explain the break. Whoever wants to talk can go outside the assembly. Here you go, fellow Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64249	Thank you very much, esteemed President HS. Please pause for 10 minutes to consult within the club until the end on one fact. We now have an amendment and an addition to the law that the proposer himself has shown in his explanation that after a year and a half after the earthquake that hit the City of Zagreb and the earthquake that was in the area of Banovina, the law that had resolved only 9.4%. And then there's a dilemma about who wrote that law, whether that law was written by some foreign consultant from some state of Azerbaijan, I don't want to insult any state, or someone planted a minister after more than a year of what the law is in force, or I'd say almost a year and a half is the conclusion that the law is inconclusive, that the law can't be applied because there's no renewal, so what rebuilding should be gone. And we now have, of course, a proposal to amend and supplement. What goes wrong can't end well, what goes wrong will end. So, all of a sudden, it was remembered that in the procedure, so we're talking about procedure, so who was prescribing the procedure for the ministry to work, so the ministry itself. We have a mild, gracious minister who will explain that we don't understand it, that we haven't read it, that we don't see that the restoration actually exists in a healthy eye, that it all works perfectly together, but we don't see it. But that's why one of the closest associates in charge of the operational section when we talk about Zagreb, Zagreb County and Krapina-Zagorski points to it. So we're still going to consult once, and we voted against the law, we're going to vote against both this amendment and the addition, and we're going to refer to the parliamentary procedure to put the law out of force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64250	Thank you. Comrade Zurovec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64251	Thank you, Mr. President. First and foremost, we're looking for a break because this law is mildly said to be cataract. This law was even a year ago when it was passed bad, it was totally missed, and now with these raisings of public procurement thresholds I think we're going to watch one of the strongest robberies after privatisation and after the pre-running deals. You can just tell me what these non-existent buildings are, what kind of buildings are built on those parts where it's not even on spatial plans? This whole law is a failure and now you can see after a year that actually what we were saying was true. We have no idea how to help people at all, and in the end this will all turn into one big robbery and one big trouble, and all of us who are going to watch and shut up and we are not going to react, we are directly responsible for what is going to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64252	Is anyone else picking up? If not, we'll take a break by 10 o'clock and 25 minutes. It's 10.09 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.28 HOURS]] So, as we have announced, the debate on three points has been united, so the promoter will speak for 20 minutes, says Minister Horvat and Minister Obuljen-Kožinek and Chief State Inspector Mikulić, and the clubs will be able to speak for 15 minutes, as agreed, and now I call on the promoter to give us an additional explanation, a respected minister of spatial planning, construction and state property, Darko Horvat. Here you go. Please hold, hold only this, panel, tiles to be seen. You can do it, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64254	The Honorable President of HS, the Honorable Parliamentary MPs, parliamentary representatives. After the earthquake hit the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorska and Zagreb County on 22 March 2020, HS adopted the Law on the restoration of earthquake-damaged buildings in the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorska and Zagreb County, and after the earthquakes that hit the area of Sisak-Moslavina and Karlova County, the law in question was amended and completed. According to the Croatian Earthquake Engineering Centre, a total of 49 667 buildings were reviewed in those areas. Of the facilities examined, 32 911 is primarily marked with green paint, so the buildings are usable, i.e. they are usable with a recommendation. 10 600 objects are marked yellow, buildings are therefore temporarily unusable, completely or partially, or temporarily unusable and emergency intervention measures are needed. While 5,305 objects are marked with a red label, the buildings are completely unusable. With the help of the World Bank, the government of the Republic of Croatia carried out a rapid assessment of the damage and needs of affected areas. The damages in Zagreb and the surrounding area and in Banovina were estimated at around 17 billion euros, or 128 billion kuna, of which 11.5 billion euros or 86 billion kuna estimated damage in Zagreb and the surrounding area, and 5.5 billion euros or 41.6 billion kuna in Banovina. According to data from the Ministry of Spatial Planning, construction and state property until 20 September 2021, citizens submitted a total of 12,346 requests relating to 10,281 buildings. The ministry has brought a total of 967 acts of reconstruction for 10,281 buildings so far. What brings us these amendments to the law? The adoption of the proposed amendments and additions to the Citizens' Law exempts the obligation to co-finance the costs of construction reconstruction. It will be financed by the Republic of Croatia, units of regional self-government and 80-20, while in the area in which the disaster of funding is declared it will continue to be in the state's 100% amount. Meanwhile, we have opened funding through the Fund of Solidarity totalling 683.7m euros and expect an additional, approximately 320m euros from the same source of funding for the earthquake that hit Sisak-Moslavina County. In parallel, nearly 5.9 billion kuna has been secured, i.e. in particular 4.4 billion in the National Recovery and Resistance Programme, which will be spent on the recovery of the earthquake of damaged buildings. In parallel, the loan of the World Bank amounts to 183.9m euros, in part, you and the loan concern the recovery after the earthquake. Directly from the state budget, the government has so far provided more than $1.1 billion of aid for the earthquake affected area. Also, 100 million kuna has been allocated out of the state budget for the urgent recovery of non-crucial building elements, 25 million kuna for paid rents, and so far citizens have spent through the Environmental Protection Fund 41 million kuna for the purchase of condensation boilers in cases in which the replacement of long-term atmospheric ones is necessary. The complex property relations in most of the new concept of law will no longer need to be proved. In the current part of law enforcement, they have significantly slowed the process. In addition, the new bill also abolishes the ban on the availability of renewed real estate, as well as the obligation to enrol in the right to the same. This does not mean that property relations will be ignored, it just means that the renewal will no longer stop the unsettled documentation, and they will be edited after the renovation or during the renovation. The topic of public procurement is one of the frequent topics that we analyzed on the parliamentary committees because it penetrates every segment of action and regulates the spending of public money. Public procurement procedures will be accelerated by the adoption of rules governing the procurement of goods, services and works whose estimated value is less than European thresholds, as well as the new rules of appeal. The Regulation will be drawn up in accordance with anti-corruption protection measures, taking into account both the principles of public procurement and the obligation to use electronic means of communication and public publication of information on public procurement procedures. The solution in these amendments respects the international setting up of public procurement thresholds, and the rules of procedure will be detailed. This will shorten the appeal procedures and greatly facilitate administrative procedures. In addition, additional anti-corruption measures shall be prescribed with the obligation of the body to carry out legal and transparent procedures of renewal and prevention of abuse in the conduct of the renewal proceedings. It is therefore binding to establish appropriate control systems every 6 months to submit comprehensive reports to the Government on the implementation of all operations and to take measures and activities related to the renewal in accordance with the provisions of this law. The City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorska County, Zagreb County and Sisak-Moslavina County and Karlovačka County are also obliged to submit the aforementioned report six months through the ministry. The next important paragraph of the amendment of the law refers to the possibility of pre-financing of the costs of construction and construction reconstruction in such a way that the cash aid for the renovation of the building can be paid even before the start of the renovation and at the expense of the mandatory reserves of a multi-state building, a residential and business building, or a business building. In this way, managers will be able to obtain all necessary services and reconstruction works by means of those funds, which will significantly speed up the process, and will also be responsible for the purpose of spending the funds. On the other hand, co-owners or family owners of co-owners or family homeowners shall be paid cash assistance after completion or according to accounts issued by individual completed works. Therefore, when rebuilding the family houses, payments will be made either after a realisation of the construction reconstruction or after a temporary situation has been laid out. The issue of the restoration of non-existent buildings is then regulated in such a way as to allow them to be refurbished unless it is in the case of buildings which cannot be legal in accordance with the Law on the handling of illegally built buildings. This is an easy provision that will allow the law of buildings in accordance with the previously implemented legal system, which will go together or parallel to the renovation for damaged buildings. This means that there will be no renewal of those non-existent buildings located in the locations where the freeway corridors or others are intended, or other publicly protected areas in accordance with existing spatial plans or those buildings in which no one has lived on the day of the earthquake. It also opens the possibility of building residential and multi-state buildings in areas where disaster has been declared. In the jurisdiction of the Central State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Rehabilitation is currently being conducted in 5 basic programmes. Among them is no construction reconstruction within which 592 houses were completed, and about 1000 project documents were produced, so 1000 sets of project documentation. The second is a project of construction reconstruction where more than 300 projects were received and agreed. The third program is the construction of replacement family houses, which starts in mid-October. During October, the public procurement process for the development of project documentation for the construction of replacement multi-state buildings is the fifth programme, the entire reconstruction program of about 200 historically protected buildings. This law also regulates a more effective and faster way of removing destroyed family homes and other destroyed buildings whose remains directly threaten the safety and health of people. In fact, the devastating earthquakes that hit the Republic of Croatia have caused a number of buildings in affected areas to be destroyed to the point that it is necessary to remove them. The existing model of resolving this issue included the original consent of owners or all co-owners, and by amending the law, we will allow the adoption of such a decision by the majority of co-owners. Exceptionally, if a certain building or family house is damaged to the extent that it is necessary to remove it because it poses a direct threat to the safety and health of people, which is determined by the building inspector, it will be possible to implement it without the consent of the owner. In the event of the need to remove a multi-state or residential building, the owner of the apartment will be given an apartment of an appropriate size on his behalf, with the obligation to transfer ownership of the land on which the removed building was located. Also, in the event of the need to remove the family home, the owner of the house will, on his request, give the replacement house, and for the purpose of implementing this issue, it is possible for the Republic of Croatia to acquire real estate in which citizens would find a permanent or temporary residence. Temporary housing care in the City of Zagreb and Krapina-Zagorje County is financed and implemented by the Reconstruction Fund, while the same jurisdiction in the area of earthquakes, hit by a disaster, has been declared by the Central State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Management. For all those who have started the renovation and no matter where the renovation phase is, the procedures already initiated under the Law on Reconstruction will be completed according to the provisions of this law if the same is more favourable to the party. Dear President HS, following all these allegations, I will ask for the support or acceptance of this law and vote in HS, and the other amendments and additions to the two laws will be said by both the Chief State Inspector and fellow Culture Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64255	All right, all right. Before we go any further, I would only ask all MPs and MPs, not to name, to put on masks, given that today the number of more than 3,100 is new, we have a serious growth of the covids, so please just, let's just stick to what we agreed. Now I will call on my fellow state inspector, Mikulic, Andrija Mikulic, to speak. We also see one breach of the Rules of Procedure, replicas, but we'll do it later. Here you go. No, no, mate Bull, you can't do it in the middle of a speech, you'll do it when it's over.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64256	Injury, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64257	When he's done, when he's done. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64258	But I gave the injury before it...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64259	No, you can't talk now, now it's a speech, when the speech's over, then you will. Here's my colleague Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64260	President-in-Office HS, respected MPs and MPs. This draft law proposes the harmonisation of the State Inspectorate Act with specific rules on reconstruction, as well as the conduct of extraordinary events that are caused especially by earthquakes, floods, slides, and thus by further strengthening the powers of the State Inspectorate's building inspection. For the purposes of the urgent action of removing buildings or parts of buildings whose remains are directly threatened by safety, human health and other buildings or stability on the surrounding land, this law prescribes the conduct of a building inspection in such a way that it makes a solution to the removal of these buildings and implements their enforcement procedure through third parties. Therefore, the paper of this bill in relation to the applicable law is examined in the following, the power to implement the previous procedure and to adopt a solution to the building inspector on the removal of destroyed buildings or parts of buildings whose remains directly threaten the safety, health of people and other buildings or as I have said to the stability of the soil on the surrounding land. More specifically, the Institute of Emergency Delivery, as well as the use of legal medicinal products, is regulated and the implementation of the solution is prescribed, as well as the costs of the implementation of the state budget. I would like to ask the following to accept this proposal and finally say that the government accepts the amendment of the Committee on Legislatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64261	Thank you. Now will be spoken by a respected culture and media minister, Nina Obuljen Koržinek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64262	Thank you, Mr. President, honourable MPs and counsellors. As the third proposal before you is a draft draft Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, which also concerns the handling of emergency situations. I would like to emphasise that we have conducted a large number of actions that we now prescribe under the law and the basis of the current Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods and Specific Decisions, and we are now in more detail editing. In the first instance, the process of removing cultural goods is more detailed, both in regular circumstances and in exceptional circumstances, regardless of whether it relates to individual protected cultural goods or to buildings in a cultural historical context. The second important part refers to the power of the minister responsible for culture to establish conservation guidelines for the restoration of cultural goods protected by a special solution and buildings within a protected cultural historical unit. This proposal allows us to do what we had to do, so if we mobilise conservatives from other parts of Croatia that decisions can be made in a hasty way at the level of the Ministry of Culture, and not that it must be passed by the competent authorities. In addition, the law defines that in order to implement urgent measures to protect cultural goods, the Croatian Restaurant Institute is appointed, but also other heritage institutions, so museums, libraries, archives. For the implementation of emergency measures, this has proved to be very important here, so with the Croatian Restaurant Institute and our entire conservatory restoration service has been involved in evacuations, art accommodation, packaging, support, decommissioning, decommissioning of dangerous parts of buildings etc. And what should be said is that the proposal specifies the part of the Croatian Council for Cultural Goods, and the transitional and final provisions provide for the completion of the procedures under the provisions of this law in the section governing this law in order to further speed up the procedures. Let me just put these proposed amendments in the context of what has been made in the Ministry of Culture and Media's portfolio over the past year and a half and two earthquakes, so we have determined by special decisions by the Minister a list of damages, assessment of damages, recording progressive damages, together with international experts, we have taken urgent measures both from national funds and from the funds of the Solidarity Fund, emergency evacuation. I stress here that I have appointed an International Advisory Commission involving experts, statisticians, so construction engineers, specialized in cultural heritage and all the points of reference, both in Zagreb, in the wider area of Zagreb and in Banovina and in other counties. Before the final decision on project design, they are filtered through that body. What is very important is that the programme for the restoration of the cultural historical unit of Petrinja was adopted, it is an obligation in accordance with the law and I must point out here that it would be very important for the city of Zagreb to pass a legally prescribed programme of reconstruction of the City of Zagreb, which is the obligation of the City of Zagreb, in accordance with the law and without it there can really be additional delays in the restoration of the cultural and historical whole, however, it is entirely within the jurisdiction of the City of Zagreb. In addition, I would also like to note that the protection service has indeed worked all this time in a situation of urgency, urgency and mobilization of colleagues from all over Croatia. By the nature of the job, the conservation service is actually the basis of the current laws and implements all the urgent measures and implements reconstruction programs, it is part of our service and regular work, however, the topic of cultural heritage management in crises, the topic that has been raised at international level, we are now facing the consequences of earthquakes, but it is a major threat of cultural heritage and of the different consequences of climate change, but also other elemental disasters and these proposals that we have now put on and we propose to this House of Commons, we have actually written with a view to being better prepared for other crisis situations that we can come up with. In addition, the service that within the Ministry implements construction reconstruction projects financed by the Solidarity Fund, and here, in addition to what is part of the Ministry of Culture, we have taken over ourselves and the entire state property, but also the entire cultural heritage of the city of Zagreb, through the crisis management sector, and this is a proposal that is ahead of you, really builds on the current legislative framework to be better prepared in all future situations. I hope this proposal gets your support.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64263	I'd like to thank Minister Ouljen Koržinek. Now first we'll see two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, and then I'll call Minister Horvat to, uh, respond to the replicas. First up, buddy Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64264	Thank you very much. Mr. President, you've injured an officer. 238th century 5 where you degrade... They take off the mask. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Up to one representative takes off the mask and no mask are in this assembly and... So that's what it's called. hypocrisy, I wouldn't put it personally because [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Bulj.]] I couldn't... [[Thank you, colleague Bulj, thank you very much.]] Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64265	I don't know what you wanted to tell me at all, it's the turn, and today the numbers are the ones that show that you really need to keep the mask. It's not my invention, it's the first decision of the Presidency, and the second and the advice of those who deal with it, that in places like this where they're not all vaccinated or not over, they should have a mask. My colleagues Vidović Kristo, here you go. And I can't, I'm not in charge when the cameras go out... [[Intruder: But as soon as it goes out, as soon as the cameras go out, nobody's wearing it right now.]] Come on, we're not going to argue right now. Here you go, colleague Vidovic Kristo. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64266	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 33, and about how to run this session. You have united the first 3 points, which is fine, you have accepted that the clubs will speak 5 minutes longer, which is fine, but it is not right that you have denied the possibility of replicating three points because we have 3 different exhibitions and we must have equal opportunity to ask the exhibitors, i.e. on behalf of the motionor certain questions for 3 different legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64267	It's the same every time. Therefore, when the exposure to multiple applicants is divided, the representative or representative can only replicate once. These are the rules that exist, which are not from today, but have always been and so will continue. Come on, colleague Vidovic Kristo, you're getting a warning because you're getting into the word without...... [[Intruder: But the rules are also that they are on behalf of the promoter, that on behalf of the club speak for 10 minutes.]] Now you get a second warning, please, sit down. [[Intruder: Give me a warning, but let me tell you.]] You can't argue the way you're doing it now. Please sit down. You have two warnings. Here are my colleagues, Selak Rasudiæ, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64269	Art. 238, I see you're handing out a warning cap, so I'm guessing you'll give me one too. But I really don't think that colleague Vidovic Kristo can get a warning about the question she asked that was justified, since we had three different laws and three different legislators who were all supposed to be open to our questions here. So in the end line, at least it's justified to ask it as a question, not to give her a warning. Be parliamentary.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64270	My colleague Selak Rasudiæ, I did not warn my colleague after the question, but I gave her a warning after she took the word and began to speak without permission, I told her that it was not working, she continued to speak further. So she didn't get it because of questions that were legitimate, but because of the intervention that followed. I'm not gonna give you a warning right now because you didn't obviously catch what happened, but okay. Now let's go with the replicas. There are... What, fellow Petrov? Here you go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64271	Dear President of HS, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I didn't know how else I could ask for a word, we only have one proposal. I don't think I'm going to be worth hurting the Rules of Procedure, because as Parliament's representatives, we have come out to meet to have this debate united by 3 points, I think that the proposal that was going to be presented by MP Karolina Vidović Kristo is justified and that we should get the opportunity to give all three exhibitors a line.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64272	Comrade Petrov, you should have said that before. So you know what practice is. When there's more proposings, then there's one replica for everyone. It's over now. It's over now. When we adopted those rules, then we accepted the rules in general. I went out to meet 15 minutes of club debate and I think it's too late to cry for spilled milk. But the next time we go into situations like this, we can agree, I don't have any problems with that, but now it's settled the way it is. So we have a lot of replicas, we have 37 of them, so we're going first with a colleague, or Minister Horvat, he has 32 replicas, he's the first colleague, Pero Cosic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64273	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS, Your Honor. Under the provisions of the Act in question, construction reconstruction of multi-state, residential and business buildings and family houses has been financed, with the aim of preventing building owners from constructing building permits under the provisions of the Construction Act and in the framework of construction reconstruction of existing buildings, meaning building up or upgrading according to the applicable spatial and planning documentation, because, in that case, they do not exercise the right to finance the costs of construction reconstruction of the existing situation, so I suggest you consider this problem and install it into these amendments and additions to the Law and renovations and owners of buildings which, in the context of the reconstruction, wish to restructure existing buildings in accordance with the Construction Act that under equivalent conditions, they exercise the right to finance the costs of construction reconstruction of the existing building. Of course, the design documentation of the strict must separate the cost of construction reconstruction and reconstruction of the facility.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64274	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64275	Thank you, Mr. President, so this is, I would say, an upgrade to the existing concept, if it is possible in the implementation sense. I will only mention once again, the attitude is also the methodology of access to reconstruction, we are renewing the family house and multi-state, residential and business building in the segment of found and existing gauges, without the need to conduct the administrative procedure of taking out special conditions, building permits and technical examinations. After construction renewal, the final report of the supervisory engineer is a necessary and sufficient act to treat the completion of the renovation, i.e. to allow possible legalisation of such a renovated facility. Accept the fact that we're getting out of the gauge from an existing gauge, so we're going to have to go to the construction permit. and all the necessary ones [[Intruder: Thank you.]] procedures, acts, for the building to receive construction [[Intruder: Minister, thank you.]] or.../incomprehensible/... permission. [[Intruder: Minister Horvat.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64276	I beg you, therefore, there are very many replicas, there are very many reported, that we all stick to one minute and conjecture our speech so that it takes one minute. Now it's time for a colleague of the coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64277	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor. One of the major problems in the recovery process so far was so-called. The three-way between the ministry on the one hand, the Fund and the Central State Office on the other, so we had three participants in the reconstruction. The public, not once, participated in certain conflicts that occurred in the relationship between you and Mr Vanjelic, who often escalated beyond what was involved in the reconstruction. My question to you is why you decided to keep this concept and can you guarantee that future relations between you and Mr. Vanjelic will not be an obstacle to the implementation of the reconstruction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64278	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64279	Thank you, Your Honor. So relations and the correlation of the Ministry and the two implementing bodies are not a dispute in the implementation of the reconstruction. We have clearly identified the recommendations, today with a much, much greater experience of the observed state of space that has been affected by the earthquake, I would say all that we cannot do without, we will try legally and legitimately to bypass, and I am sure that in the next few months, by a different methodology of approach to decision-solving, we will relocate the focus of renewal, if I can say so, to the implementing bodies. It just means that with these benefits made by the law, the pace of generating decisions will be much, much faster. Thus, as well as the number of employees in the Central State Office and the Fund, it will have to increase because we are shortening the procurement procedures and simplifying the negotiation of concrete items of reconstruction.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64280	My colleague Vukovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64281	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, therefore, according to the data provided by the Ministry and the Agency for Reconstruction, your Ministry has made an act out of the received 13703 requests for a total of 511 requests. So, for 96.3% of the requests received, everything is standing in place, i.e. nothing is still running. If we continue to rebuild at this rate, mathematically, we come to a period of over 20 years. Since there are no deadlines for the state, does this mean that the Ministry has so far accepted the fact that the restoration of people living in containers in Banovina will take more than 20 years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64282	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64283	Thank you, Your Honor, in my opening statement, I presented a concrete and correct number which is precisely recorded by the date, so it wasn't 519, it was 519, and now 967 and I fully agree with you that the pace of generating power decisions is too slow. That's why we're here today. So we don't agree or deal with that or that dynamic. These amendments and additions to the law contribute to the pace of restoring, to the pace of negotiation, to make the pace of carrying out the tasks of the contracts in question far, far greater, and I am sure that this is what these changes are.../ The speaker doesn't understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64284	Comrade Hajdukovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64285	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, the declarative objective of this law is to speed up the process. However, it is not clear how this procedure will really be accelerated and there is no reason to leave the definition of procurement to the regulation which the ministry adopts because the law now provides for the adoption of a procurement regulation, that is, Article 41, within 15 days of the adoption of the law and the new programme of measures within 60 days of the adoption of the law, and that will already hold the hodogram. The law also stipulates that complaints can continue to be filed to the State Commission for Public Procurement, so we have not potentially shortened but extended the procedure, and it has been taking too long. And the other thing is, it needs to be more powerfully involved in the profession. In an open letter, the architects also addressed the prime minister and asked for the same. Article 11(3) says that the programme of measures is decided by the Government on a proposal from the Ministry and, with the previous opinion of the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorska, Zagreb, Sisak-Moslavina and Karlova County, there is no mention of the advice of the Chamber of Architects and Construction Engineers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64286	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64287	Thank you, Your Honor. So I'd say someone who wrote this question that you've now read is at great length with the existing Public Procurement Act. It is clear, therefore, that the directive implemented in national legislation clearly sets European thresholds within or up to which the directive must be transposed into national legislation in a 100% amount, but that same directive allows for the possibility that under those thresholds, national legislation only regulates public procurement procedures. On the other hand, having expert advice in which of the 23 members you have 20 experts, I think we have eliminated any suspicion that the reconstruction is not involved in the profession.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64288	We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Selak Rasudic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64289	Article 238 of the minister deceives the Croatian public and demeans us parliamentary representatives, it would be good to read the Public Procurement Act which I warned him yesterday. Chapter 4 of the thresholds, thresholds for the application of the law of Article 12, this law shall not apply to the supply of goods and services and to the execution of tenders of an estimate of less than 200.000 kuna and less than 500,000 kuna. So your bill of law annuls the Public Procurement Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64290	My colleagues, Selak Rasudiæ, this is a replica, so you get a warning. Second breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Hajdukovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64291	Thank you, Mr. President. Article 238 has been injured, the demeaning of MPs, and I ask you to warn the minister. Minister, no one has written me these questions, I am written and able to write my own questions, but I am also able to see the lack of laws and I like to listen to the profession. You won't believe it. I like to read as your Prime Minister says from the party, so I read. And you don't read clearly, at least not what architects write to the prime minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64292	I estimate that the minister's intervention was consistent with what's being said here, nothing above that, you've also answered now, so I won't give a warning. Let's move on, colleague Barbaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64293	Thank you, Mr. President. The respected ministers, when we discussed the law some year ago, dominated by the issues of transparency, dilemma of the fund or the institute, presented problems of social categories, their participation in the renewal process, very little or no emphasis was made on working and an extremely demanding, technically demanding procedure towards this meeting, long-term. I ask if in the process of reconstruction and what experience so far, the bottleneck can be a human factor or available workforce, so if we have enough professional people to design and monitor the process itself, if we have enough qualified labour to perform the reconstruction process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64294	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64295	Thank you, Your Honor. So here's to today's engagement of operational coordinators for 4840 houses we have 21 contracts. With designers and professional supervision for those 4840 houses which are the subject of the contract or are already contracted 90 contracts, so designers and expert supervision. We have 56 contracts in the public procurement process for 1350 houses, 27 applicants and we are expected to analyse the additional 1500 houses that enter into the negotiation process where we have 30, 30 applications or 30 applications. Whether that's enough or not, probably not, but we're gonna go on with the contests. When, when we are aware that our existing construction operation cannot respond to request [[Intruder: Thank you.]] We'll open an international tender. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64296	Comrade Nikolic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64297	I would like to thank the President of the Assembly. Respected ministers, interpreting Article 27(4), states that the right to build a replacement family home is also owned by owners who acquired real estate after 22.3.2020 and 28 or 29.12.2020, respectively, from relatives without compensation, who lived on the day of the earthquake in that acquired property. Whether this means that it will be granted to owners with multiple properties, which are allowed to be fully refurbished by transferring ownership to relatives who may be, which may be temporary until that right is exercised.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64298	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64299	So, the new concept is very clear, where people lived and lived, we're going to rebuild it whether it's legal or illegal, unless it's in corridors or in those areas where it's not going to be legalized in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64300	Comrade Stromar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64301	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, these amendments to the law are extremely liberalizing the existing law, removing really excessive administration, but careful, careful in all the following acts that are passed for transparency. We need to know at all times from, starting with the public procurement who was chosen, in which way he was chosen at what prices, and later when the funds are paid for, which is exactly how much money and for which house, which building, which institution was paid for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64302	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64303	Thank you, Your Honor. I fully agree with the esteemed parliamentary representative with you and for this reason all those contracts that will be greater than 200 and 500,000 kuna will be transparently visible in the electronic advertising of public procurement. It will be negotiated on the basis of a public call, the text of a public call will be visible and offers will arrive, and contracts and key parts of the contract itself will be concluded. So, the full visibility of everything that will be negotiated.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64304	Comrade Sinisha Hajdash Doncic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64305	Thank you, two shorts to call it the replicas. So, first of all, I think this opens up a big space for corruption, and I'm saying this in general, I'm going to exclude myself, the decision-making committee on public procurement complaints, it's not good because it's been enough time for the proceedings to be conducted, and then, specifically, what we're going to refer to as the amendment, I think it's Article 36, which I don't understand why only financial assistance to repair the structure of the building would get business buildings, i.e. reserve managers, and why they can't get it in advance from family owners. So it says here that I can't do article number two. Paragraph 2., only after the invoices have been issued does it say in item 2. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. What? And these get ahead. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64306	Don't talk but finish, don't go well.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64307	No, no, but, okay, fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64308	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64309	Thank you, Your Honor. Yes, a few threats and a few doubts about not wasting taxpayers' money in vain led us to this very definition of articles. So where we have a jury account and where we have a building manager we'll be able to finance in advance and the managers themselves will be able to negotiate. Family house owners will be able to order project documentation, will be able to arrange works, temporary situations will be paid at the rate at which they will be placed. So, there's no big difference here, but we're not going to give up money to build a replacement family house.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64310	Comrade Selak Rasudic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64311	Dear Ministers, the word "visible" and "visibility" does not exist in Croatian. Unless you're the new Bogoslav Schulek there's nothing embarrassing about saying visible and visible. Unless you want something, and right in public procurement, you want to blur it out. And what do you want to cloud? This reconstruction will cost every employee of the Republic of Croatia 85,000 kunas they do not have. Therefore, it is of vital public interest that everything relating to public procurement is completely transparent and that no thresholds are raised to HRK 39 million. You are asking us to prescribe how public procurement will be carried out under 39 million kunas past the eyes of these, this assembly by means of a sublegal act. We can't let you do that because we're responsible for the citizens who will give that money out of their pockets. So I invite you to You change this legal decision and I'm wondering if you are. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Ready for that. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64312	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64313	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Parliament MPs, if it hadn't been for the first 3 of your sentences I would have really taken your concern seriously, but given the way you started, and since my ego is not as hurtful as yours I'm sure that all public procurement procedures will be carried out transparently, everyone will be visible in the public procurement notice and will be open to them and made possible appeal procedures.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64314	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64315	Article 238, I don't know what reason other than the anxiety for which it would be better for the minister to catch up with numbers that show that the renewal has not even happened, but because of my words which point to him not knowing the Croatian language, but also ignoring the Public Procurement Act, but this is indeed an insult to mention my ego to me, there is no reason why, nor is he entitled to address parliamentary representatives. Unless he's nervous about what I'm saying, and he needs to be nervous about what you're doing with this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64316	My colleague Selak Rasudiæ, this is a replica again, so it's not you, so you insulted him so he doesn't know what he's saying he's not using, that he's using an expression that doesn't exist. So here I am now exploited and quickly looked at the Croatian name is Language Portal, Visibility says visibility, obviousness. So he didn't do anything wrong, you handed it to him, he gave it back to you, and now I have to give you a warning. Nothing, let's move on. Comrade Maric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64317	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, part of the facilities in Bani received a red sticker, because they are located near the rinks or drills. Their numbers are growing. So in the first month there was information that there were 50 of them, so in the second month of 88, and now I've come across the information that 136 gardeners are waiting for a recovery in the Mechen area. I also came across the information that the recovery of 7 gardeners will last 30 working days and cost 350,000 kuna. At what rate will it ever be restored, when all this will be resolved together, who performs the works, and is there even some sort of plan to resuscitate those gardeners so that people can return to their homes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64318	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64319	Thank you, Your Honor. All the numbers you've given are correct. 136 ruins are registered not only in Mecencan space but in Sisak-Moslavina County. The Faculty of Civil Engineering developed a project of rehabilitation, Croatia's waters are in charge of their recovery, and all will be paid from the state budget. ... At that rate, as their recovery will be possible, external contractors are also contracted with the involvement of Croatian water experts. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] Therefore, public procurement is at a pace again, determining the pace and dynamics of the negotiation and execution of the works themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64320	Comrade Bencic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64321	Thank you. Dear Ministers, please answer our question and give us information on the use of the Solidarity Fund. Namely, Croatia received 5 billion kuna from the Solidarity Fund only for the earthquake and resolution of the consequences of the earthquakes in Zagreb, Zagreb County and Krapina-Zagorje County. Tell us how much has been spent so far, so not agreed but paid from the Solidarity Fund to end-users? Why aren't ZNS claims for compensation immediately paid off? And what is the projection that in the next seven months we will be able to make use of this fund, or how much is it estimated that the fund will be used? I also ask you, since there is no information anywhere that would be updated daily to tell us where the data on how much money has been used and on which terms and positions that ministry is because that money is who of Podokin's villages?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64322	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64323	Thank you, Your Honor. I understand your fear. I think the question at this point is a question for my colleague Maric, in which the lip and kuna are allocated to the budget items 5.1 billion kunas that we have received from the Solidarity Fund today for the recovery of earthquake damage, and we have received the advance of this other application in which we expect about 2.2 billion euros, so 41.7 million euros have arrived and arrived. So, finally with yesterday in 14 public calls, we have 442 applications of 10 billion 757 million kuna. So far, 246 projects totalling 7 billion 625 million kuna have been agreed, and I hope and believe that a large part of these funds will be spent by the deadline that we have been tasked with making an audit report to which justice will be spent.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64324	Thank you. Comrade Murganic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64325	Thank you very much, esteemed President HS, Your Honor. This amendment of the law goes towards making it easier for citizens to exercise their right to rebuild and in any case there is one, I would say, social component and it is in any case to greet. However, citizens are quite sensitive, and this is also seen from the report on consultation with the interested public on the construction or restoration of illegal buildings or those who have become illegal and my question is going in the direction of whether you can explain for citizens what conditions and why these buildings will also be rebuilt and what will be the obligations of citizens who had such illegal buildings?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64326	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64327	Thank you, Your Honor. We have made it very clear in the law which of the non-existent objects will be able or allowed to be renewed, and then legalized. But what is the fact, in the City of Zagreb and 5 and 4 of the neighbouring districts in the area where the earthquake occurred, have a total of around 25,000 submitted, not resolved requirements for legalization of buildings. I have had several occasions in this home to hear that the main and key reason why this documentation does not complete the material or financial situation or the status of those citizens. It is difficult to expect that, after participation, the differences between construction and whole reconstruction, these citizens have the means to pay for the project of the state of play and the geodetic that they need to complete the reconstruction process. That's what the state will do for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64328	Comrade Zurovec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64329	Thank you. Well, first of all, I'd like to point out that even those unfulfilled seven days of public consultation are actually embarrassingly small and embarrassingly short for a law like this. I'm curious if you've analyzed and realized that now people who, for example, have illegally moved into someone's attic actually now get with these changes 100% renewals? There will also be a huge mess in the space, given that power will be built even beyond spatial plans, and there has been a lot of talk and about this raising of supply thresholds, how is it that there has not been any competition to be announced in any case on an electronic public procurement notice with the information of course on the European public procurement notice at TED, plus, of course, the National Journal?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64330	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64331	Thank you, Your Honor. I have to be careful not to say another word that will be strangely understood, but what you just said as a counter is defined differently in the law. It will not be possible to renew and legalise beyond spatial plans, and on the other hand, all these thresholds that are 200 to 33,000 to 33,000 and 500 to 39 million will be visible in the electronic public procurement advertiser and the whole process, not only the contract but the public call, the tenders received, the decision made and afterwards the main elements of the contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64332	Comrade Whitey, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64333	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I will say that I am much more pleased with this bill than it was with the previous one, only with criticism that he is much late. So, what you've presented as a proposal is acceptable, it would certainly still be possible to fix a lot of things, but these criticisms that come from people who really don't know how the public procurement process works and the electronic type, etc., that there is a possibility of any muggings being reduced practically to a minimum, I don't think you should waste any time on them, you need to speed up the whole procedure precisely because of people who have died in the earthquake and who have been looking at it for a long time. So, this law should have been passed immediately, it shouldn't have waited, and then it should have been fixed in walking, because it's been too long, and in that sense I think it should have been as urgent as it is, and the natural thing when anything is done urgently to steal the unintended mistakes that can then, over time, change.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64334	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64335	Thank you, Your Honor. I have nothing to answer except accept criticism and agree that everything has to be much, much faster. It's going to be transparent, and what's a fact, so accepting a large amount of amendments, wanting to create exactly fences and control mechanisms, I think at one point in this existing version of the law, we ourselves created steps that we simply couldn't skip. Now we're going to legally and legitimately bypass them, and we're going to solve them sometimes when the reconstruction is completed or in the process itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64336	Comrade Vidovic Kristo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64337	Francis Tudjman was on August 16, '93. opened the works on the tunnel of St. A deadline that symbolically began the merger of Mediterranean and continental Croatia. Let's remember it was a few months after the Maslenica campaign, and the north side was under Serbian occupation. But Tudjman, under impossible circumstances, has shown that he can do it whenever he wants to. You gentlemen of today's government have not restored almost 1% of the damage from the earthquake in Sisak-Moslavina County, and as a member of the EU, we have paid the money in the account. You have selected Deputy Prime Minister Boris Milosevic to take a walk in Banovna with the negatators of the Srebrenica genocide Milorad Dodig and a certain Zeljko Cvianovic. You have chosen Milosevic so that you can move the few inhabitants from Banovina. Why did you put the proposals for recovery and revitalization of Banovina made by Professor Cavrak in the drawer and who gives you the right to work against the Croatian citizens who pay you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64338	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64339	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear MPs, I fully agree with you with the sentence you said in the segment I would say your positive attitude towards the first president of the Republic, but there is one difference between those '90s and today, I think that Mr. Beljak's parliamentary representative is very clear in saying that these things are debated by those who do not fully understand it. So when public procurement procedures were not used, works and services were not negotiated in such a way and the process of negotiation and reconstruction was much, much faster. We're gonna say again today, we're on our own in the beginning, so when I say it myself, then I think about the clubs that have proposed amendments, but we who have accepted them have created certain steps that this law is difficult to accept and pass and that we would raise the dynamics to a much higher level. these changes are needed. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64340	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Vidovic Kristo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64341	Article 238, this is not only an insult to parliamentary representatives, this is an eclectic insult to the entire Croatian public. A year and a half after the earthquake, you sell this kind of demagogy. This is a shame, and you'll have to account for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64342	And you will lose your right to debate until the end of this topic since this is the third warning. Let's move on, colleague Vesna Vucilovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64343	Thank you very much. Dear Minister Horvat, on 20 January of this year when we were making the last amendments to this law that is still in our cups today, I suggested that the citizens and residents of Banovina start to rebuild themselves, and that the state, based on an insight into the amounts of compensation they have invested. It was already seen that the reconstruction was going extremely slowly, and I suggested it to speed up the process. You rejected it, you said no responsible state could do it, so you were a little surprised by my proposal, and now I'm surprised that you nine months after people still live in containers you're proposing exactly what you've adopted my proposal. I am sorry that this development process lasted 9 months lost for residents of the City of Zagreb And for the inhabitants of Banovina. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64344	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64345	Thank you, Your Honor. So, the process of self-reimbursement since the first public call after the Zagreb earthquake was possible. The difference between that public call and this concept of law is precisely that citizens today have 2 opportunities. To give the implementing body the possibility to restore it on their behalf and to pay it or to make the project documentation before the pre-financing segment, the implementing bodies shall make technical financial control and then give them the money to which they will negotiate and pay. So the self-renovation segment from day one is present. And out of 2183 demands from the City of Zagreb we have solved and paid over 64 million kuna for 1800 such activities, or renovated buildings.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64346	Here's your friend, Thunderbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64347	Thank you. Dear Ministers, you promised the people of Banovina that winter will be welcomed by solid objects, not containers, and still 3,000 people do not have containers. Not only that, I was in Banovina this summer, some people in containers where they were not even a sanitary node. And that's not about the Rehabilitation Act, so these are the things that you could solve, regardless of what law you passed, and you passed a disastrous law that you didn't even apologize for. My colleague, Whitey, says that the old law wasn't good. It was supposed to be. No one ever apologized to people about it. And together they brought it in. We can bring in HDZ. I don't know if my colleague, Beljak, voted for it. The MOST Club didn't. Croatian people in Banovina, Croatian people therefore and people of our citizens here in the City of Zagreb did not deserve such non-chalant behaviour You should have passed the law before [[Intruder: Thank you.]] What will you finally do for the people of Banovina? [[Intruder: Thank you, fellow Grumoja.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64348	Before the Minister's reply, I have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, my colleague, Beljak, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64349	Dear President, my colleague Grumoja has been injured by Article 238. The Rules of Procedure called for easy statements. So, personally, and I recommend it, the minister wouldn't argue with people at all how a certain job is done but simply speak, you're beating up empty straw. If someone's a critic of HDZ, then it's me, it's me. But if something's wrong, then I can't say it's not right and it's a priority against everything. So, a colleague of the Grmoya may be easy to do I don't know what, he's doing it easy on the way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64350	Comrade Whitey, thank you, thank you very much. So, of course this isn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Saying that something is easy is really in line with what we say here in the Croatian Parliament. And I'd like to ask my colleagues and colleagues, the injury of the Rules of Procedure doesn't serve to react if you don't like something from the presentation of a representative or a representative, but it serves when there's an injury to the procedure. So you get a warning from your colleague, Beljak. And I invite you not to speak now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64351	No, I have to react.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64352	Then go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64353	So, counterpart Beljak was injured in Article 238, saying again and saying that some MPs do not know what they're talking about, and he is one of the MPs who supported this disastrous law when we warned that he was bad. And now he's saying again that this is a good law, and without any responsibility, he hasn't apologized for voting for bad law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64354	Okay, now you're going to get a warning from your colleagues, Thunderbolt, because this has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Let's move on now, Comrade Bull, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64355	Ministers of the Year
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64356	Please, colleagues of Grumo and colleagues of Beljak, if you want to argue get out of the assembly, there is order here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64357	Do you wear gloves or no gloves?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64358	Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64359	Dear Ministers, I'd just say that it's not enough to change normatives and laws as fast as we have the Covid strains. The fact is that it's been a year and a half that people aren't taken care of and that the earthquake threat has to be much more effective. These laws you've passed before and these changes show no hope to the people. The people must have hope in laws and normatives. You've never done that before. Here we have a recent earthquake in my Sinj, the Cetinski end was on the verge of happening similar to that in Zagreb and what is in Banovina. We must have a whole law for all earthquake ends otherwise in this way we will selectively position ourselves as we are now in any danger. What do you say? Is it enough to pass selective laws and change them as Covid owls? [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64360	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64361	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, here, I'll answer the very clear numbers, after the renovation, after the refurbishing of 4840 and houses, 40 houses that have a green stamp at the moment, in which we will quickly return those who are present in temporary accommodation, regardless of whether they are in the area of the county, the city or the municipalities where the earthquake occurred or those presently located in temporary accommodation in container units or those mobile homes. We will take the first step in returning those who are in the segment of temporary accommodation to solid objects regardless of whether they were a temporary or permanent solution. All of this is funded by funds or donations or State budget funds or secured sources of funding and only what they can agree on here in that debate Is that the dynamics of restoration [[Intruder: Thank you.]] She could still be a little faster. [[Intruder: Ministers please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64362	You've come out of time a lot. Comrade Bulj, here's your breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64363	Thank you very much. He was injured, the minister injured Article 238 where he did not respond to my question whether it was necessary for threats and natural disasters for the government to be the one to resuscitate the natural disasters or leave a mark on the norms on the elemental disasters itself. I'm talking about a full solution for future elemental disasters. Recently there was an earthquake in Sinj in the Cetina region.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64364	Thank you, fellow Bull, you know you've earned your own warning. Let's move on, Comrade Petrov, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64365	Mr. Horvat, listening to you, for half an hour, have been apologeticly refusing to warn parliamentary deputies that by abolishing public procurement, you are opening the way for corruption, then I must ask you directly. Isn't it tragic, and I dare say tragically that the party that the Supreme Court sentenced a few days ago ruled that it was conducting corruption, now abolishing public procurement, the only model of transparency today in Croatia up to 39 million kuna. It is also tragic that ministers and state secretaries who once praised this Law on Reconstruction today say it failed the experiment. How many more versions do you need to bring? It's tragic for me that one minister on the council board says this is all an unnecessary administrative operation. Well, we can't pass the law without knowing how you're gonna make it. Multimillion-dollar relations [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Whom to trust, you. [[Agreement: Thank you colleague Petrov.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64366	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64367	Thank you, Your Honor. It's too bad I don't have a chance to lift this brand of injury to the Rules of Procedure or maybe some other color to have this stamp because I'd be a little bit sharper. I'm just recommending you have coffee with your colleague, Whitey, something might teach you. And this story about someone ending public procurement is your line I hope you've all heard of. And the Minister's sentence, not to be abolished public procurement, introduces European thresholds, and procurement in the form of a public call made transparently published in a public procurement notice will be from 200 to 233 000 and from the threshold of 500 million to the threshold of 39 million, clearly and transparently published in a public procurement notice, visible to all those who wish to be included in the process.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64368	We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. First is my colleague Bulj, just a second, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64369	Thank you very much. The minister injured Article 238, where he demeaned lawmakers where he said he could not lift the breach of the Rules of Procedure. It's easy for the ministers to resign, sit here in the bench and give us a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You can know because you've been elected as a parliamentary representative and answer the question, not mail via Beljak to God Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64370	Comrade Bulj, of course this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so you get a second warning. A colleague of Petrov's reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64371	He's been injured. 238 where Mr. Horvat demeans me, and I can tell you, Mr. Horvat, you don't need a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you are sufficient protector of a man who stands behind you, who should have already warned you several times as chairman that you are violating the Rules of Procedure, that you are demeaning the MPs and did not do so. But it's not your fault. You don't need any more of that to protect you. That's too much for you and me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64372	Comrade Petrov, Minister Horvat is answering your questions. You've been as defiant to him in your own affairs as well. You've also used rhetorical figures that one might consider demeaning. I didn't react. He answered the minister in a similar way as you do, and I don't see what you'd like me to warn him now and not you. I must warn you now and warn you because you have violated the Rules of Procedure. Let's move on now. Comrade Martincevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64373	... become legal objects, which would have no number, which would have turned apartments and attics and sheds, but houses and serious objects from illegals into legal objects. [[Specially enabled.]] This is particularly dangerous, especially in the city of Zagreb where you have a situation where something that is not worth anything at some point can be worth several thousand euros per square moment. I've been listening to your answer to a similar question, I'd just like to warn you that there was no number of citizens of this country who had paid their legalisation neatly. Do you really think that on the refurbishment paid, we should also give the gratis to those who did not want to legalize, pay for the legalization.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64374	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64375	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Parliamentarian. Well, I agree with a lot of things. But ignoring the situation I think was one of the mistakes of the existing law. I don't give the possibility to legalize that building facility that we're going to restructure, unlike some of the objects that are legalized, and neither are they built with adequate materials nor have their static strength defined by laws and technical regulations, I think at this point far away, far less maneuverial space is possible abuse because when we decide to resuscitate the facility, there's no reason, if it's consistent with the spatial plan, that we don't also legalize it because citizens are going to have to pay the difference between structural and whole reconstruction and we're going back into the situation that They don't have the money to legalize. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64376	Comrade Troscott, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64377	Dear Minister. This specialized law has proved to be a major failure because, we have established a fund, we have hired people, you have already praised yourself with the fact that certain funds have been provided, however, the day of the city of Zagreb, Banovina, so they remain unchanged, nothing has therefore moved. What other than the legalization of corruption itself through your Regulation that you are asking for the Parliament to actually vote here, where you would expose this House to both legal and complimentary risk and reputation risk for why we should pass a law on which you will approve the Regulation and those renewals up to 39 million kuna, which is out of the question. So, on the other hand, the existing laws could solve these problems, and every time an extraordinary event like this happens, we're doing extra law inflation, except, a place to get to work and start with the right renewal. Because we could handle it based on an existing one. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64378	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64379	Thank you, Your Honor. So I think it's groundless, I don't know, six or seven times to answer one and the same question about abolishing public procurement, that nothing in the renovation has happened, so I made it very clear, that neither we ourselves nor the Ministry nor the Government are satisfied with the pace of renewal, and that's why we propose these amendments and additions. But also, arguing, as I had the opportunity here today to hear that 3,000 people were not temporarily taken care of, to abolish public procurement or that nothing happened in the reconstruction segment, I simply won't accept such rhetoric and let me explain then another position, the position of the Ministry and the position of government.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64380	Now it's time for fellow Petyr. Yeah, what are you? Injury...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64381	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 238, the minister deceives the public, and the reason I'm saying that is the fact that there are 12,000 demands in the ministry. Minister, it is your responsibility that you have not initially set the rules of the game and that you have received incomplete documentation and now you will make that same documentation transfer to the Fund and the problem as such will not solve a bit. So your responsibility, Minister, was to lay down the rules for documentation to be received by the Department of Construction. You're not...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64382	/Agreement: Thank you colleague Troscott, you get a warning./
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64383	...did it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64384	Let's move on. Comrade Petyr, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64385	Thank you very much, President. Dear Ministers, you said that the recognised bottleneck on the ground is on the ground in the implementation of the law so far, and that in fact this law will bypass these problems, so the problem of legalising property-legal relations, the problem of public procurement, and that's good. What worries me is that so far it has not been recognised that agricultural family economies are also business entities because you here predict the restoration of business buildings, but that way you don't treat farmers. 2 064 agricultural holdings were injured in the area of Banovina in an earthquake. You are instructing them to address the problem through measures of rural development that they are asked to have their own money to invest. If someone lost the house, barn, tractor, cattle, they have no money of their own, and it is known that the banks in Croatia are not so socially sensitive that they will be given the money of their choice. I am interested in whether the Government will identify farmers as a business entity in this Act and give them the opportunity to rebuild or find a model to give them pre-financing to use rural development funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64386	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64387	Thank you, Your Honor. So here, I can, in the vast majority of here, support what is parallel to making these amendments and supplementing the three resolutions work on the strategy of economic revitalising the earthquake of the affected area, therefore not only Sisak-Moslavina County but also parts of Karlovac and parts of Zagreb County. In them one special chapter is agriculture. Therefore, these measures, which are currently in place and the financial resources that are being provided, have been temporarily taken care of, or are now, the rehabilitation and return of that agricultural activity which was in the area and at the time of the earthquake in a certain intensity, and this law clearly states in one article that the government can make specific decisions in certain sectoral policies, and are the source of funding that support and finance the implementation of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64388	Comrade Pavić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64389	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office. Dear Minister, you have come to this high house precisely because you think you need to speed up the renovation and I think these changes are going in that direction right now. The main problem was property legal issues, this way you bypass them, citizens get free construction reconstruction and what's important is pre-financing. That's what I don't think anybody said. Secondly, there is no talk about corruption in public procurement as you said, so we are not the only fools in the EU, there are reasons why European thresholds are at that level, to ensure the flow of funds, and you have very well explained how control and no speech will be, therefore the European thresholds are defined at Union level. I also thank Mr. Mikulic and the contribution of the inspectorates and thank the minister I think Obulen Koržinek and I think that NPOO 12% of the investments that go there and her ministry that really stood out along with you have contributed greatly throughout the process.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64390	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64391	Thank you, Your Honor. So I didn't honestly recognize the question, and if I were to answer, I would repeat everything with a saying like the parliamentary representative said, but one just before a sentence that was said here in a way that there are over 12,000 requests in the ministry and that nothing is done and imputed to the minister to deceive the public, I can only rhetorically return that this is an eclectic example of public deception because almost 12,000 of the requests received in the processing and professional services of the ministry complete those demands, and not those who were killed in the earthquake, and this is the first case in the history of the Croatian state that ministry officials visited homes and helped people to submit these requests.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64392	Comrade Antoliæ Vupra, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64393	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. The law states that buildings for which a request for renovation or removal has been submitted are removed with the consent of co-owners or owners of most of all co-owners of the building. Does most of the co-owners of the building mean most of all the individual apartments and all the individual co-owners of the building, or does it mean most of the owners holding most of the squares or the surface of the building? I think it's important to clarify it in the law itself so that there is no difficulty in implementing it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64394	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64395	Thank you, Mr. President, and thank you to the parliamentary representative for this matter. Yes, the great opposition to the removal of objects, primarily those who were a threat to human health and life, is precisely a fact and that constitutional right of ownership that we were afraid to harm and then obtain a certain number of judicial disputes. The new law makes it clear that those buildings that are a threat, which, if we do not bring them down, will be able to destroy themselves and must be removed by means of a state inspectorate without the need or majority or 100% share of the owner. For those buildings for which an application for removal has been submitted, project documentation will be made for them. It's not said that the building that the owners think has to collapse will collapse and the profession will say that this building is for demolition. The profession may say that it is for construction and overall reconstruction, and this majority part is a majority part of the grossly developed area of the building.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64396	Thank you. Comrade Branko Bačić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64397	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, I welcome the approach in which we will allow the construction of legalized buildings, which are not in the space that the Law on the handling of illegally built buildings is not suitable for legalisation. According to my information of such objects that will not be able to go through this law in renewal, and they are located in areas where it is not possible to enforce legalisation is not much, very few people are, very few objects, so it would be good to follow this law and the social component to run and, in that case, I suggest that we do not legalise them, but through the government's social programmes allow these people ultimately not to remain after this earthquake the only group that did not have a roof over their heads.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64398	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64399	Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you for the idea, esteemed parliamentary representative. I find it difficult to say at this point that it will be so, but we have the opportunity and opportunity to intervene with amendments to take such a proposal into consideration, so I ask you to elaborate your idea through the amendment, we will, during the day, perhaps tomorrow, analyze it, and then before the vote, let this high house know whether we have accepted it or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64400	Comrade Bartulica, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64401	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister. From the beginning, we warned that this Law was not actually enforceable. Unfortunately, time has shown it was true. The Americans have a good saying, "Always keep it simple." So where simple solutions can be offered anyway. You have not given up, regardless of these changes in the law, you have not given up on the concept that 3 institutions deal with this problem. So your Ministry, the Central State Office and the Reconstruction Fund. I represent the interests of the people of Banovina, among other things, so the question is, if it doesn't accelerate, as we all hope and expect, who will be responsible for this situation? So, people are looking for responsibility and still, we're afraid that there will be noises in communication, so I'm asking you, who, after all, will be responsible for the implementation of These decisions? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64402	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64403	Thank you, Your Honor. Finally, I am sure that it will be expressed by the people at or in the next election process, and let us not worry too much about it. But what is the fact, therefore, in the Banovina restoration segment, this institution which is the executive body and is in charge of both non-building and construction reconstruction and for.../incomprehensible/... the removal of facilities and the construction of replacement family houses has in post-war reconstruction restored more than 25 thousand objects. So I don't have confidence in such an institution, and I don't think it would be entirely wrong for that reason, that space that was declared a disaster, the Central State Office, the Krapina-Zagorska County and the City of Zagreb, the Renewal Fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64404	My colleague Željko Pavić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64405	Dear Minister, I agree that the debate should be constructive, affirmative, so I will also ask you a question about what the bill says. In fact, in the Law you provided data on the number of applications submitted, you indicated which number of objects these requests relate to and how many acts are adopted in some area. What is a big difference in the number of acts adopted in a given area, but also a big difference in the percentage of acts adopted in relation to the number of requests submitted. In fact, the percentages range from 3% to 24% of the acts adopted, so I would ask you to explain why such a big difference occurred, and are we now with this new law, if this law is passed, is all settled, all the problems that have arisen?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64406	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64407	Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, MP, for the question and for the opportunity to explain. Therefore, almost 13 thousand, 12 762 requests refer to slightly more than 10 800 buildings precisely because applicants in one doubt to what they have the right to one real estate, for one cadastrian particle even submitted all 8 applications. It's an elaborate why 12,700 demands apply to 10,800 buildings. For 10 800 buildings we issued 976 making decisions, making conclusions, making temporary decisions. So 976 of these requests are complete and I will remind you that the submission of the application is limited to the actual copying of the data from the ID card into the application form, and all other records and verifications of the right are on the staff of the Ministry. The inability to resolve property-law, identify an existing and non-existent facility, identify residence or residence significantly slows down this process, but that does not mean that these 12 700 requests [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It doesn't do anything. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64408	Minister, 15 seconds. Please be careful. Comrade Bauk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64409	Thank you. Mr. President, I have also consulted the Croatian Language Portal and there is no expression of dedramaticization, so warn the Prime Minister next time you see it. So, by voting for the laws of this kind, at least we of the opposition, we are always facing a kind of moral dilemma or moral blackmail. To support a solution that is not good, but is better and better than not having any or to expose ourselves to the possibility that you tell us that we did not want to help people or that our colleagues who moralise that they did not vote for the law, I guess there should have been no law, that this, to start acting as righteous. So in the sense of this one moral dilemma, I want to say this. Children born at the time of the earthquake are already walking, the restoration has not yet begun to crawl. Will these amendments make it possible for at least when their younger brothers and sisters walk, to start walking again, or we have to wait for the next generation for children born at the time of the earthquake to start walking, and one of them I have at home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64410	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64411	Thank you, Mr. President, thank you, Your Honor. That moral dilemma you have, I'll leave it to you, I won't solve it or dissipate it, you'll resolve it yourself when you vote, when you choose between the red and the green keys and it'll be your decision. What's on us as a government, as a position, is to propose changes and additions and further speed up recovery. This is the purpose and purpose of this debate today and what I expected, several constructive proposals so far, I have not unfortunately received any.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64412	My colleague Posavec the Sinner, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64413	I would like to thank the Honorable President of HS, the Honorable Minister. The current situation on the ground, especially from the aspect of Sisak-Moslavina County, i.e. Banija has 2 essential features. The first is uncertainty, and the second is lack of coordination. This lack of coordination, you are fully aware of it and I will not talk about it here, they simply, even tell us, but also burdens us from the media conflicting leaders of certain institutions. In fact, this uncertainty that I'm talking about is reflected in the fact that people whose property is damaged or destroyed don't have safe places to live, they simply don't know when or how they can get back to normal life. And then you say there are no constructive proposals here, the constructive proposals were in a public debate that lasted only seven days and you rejected most of them, so I'm just going to repeat the problem here remains the restoration of agricultural and commercial buildings because in rural areas some people mean more to life than a residential facility.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64414	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64415	Thank you, Your Honor. And yet again, mixing pots around coordination, talking and potentiating something that could be considered non-coordination on the ministry's route and the fund has nothing to do with the co-ordination in Banovina. The co-ordination in Banovina is very good and therefore these 5,000 contracts will return 5,000 households to their homes very soon. And I agree with yours, with your constructive proposal once housing is restored, it is important to restore the economy, agriculture, infrastructure, revitalise the earthquake affected space because the legacy of history is not only the subject of analysis after the earthquake. So, legacy of history, one work, another war and everything that happened in that space believe me cannot be solved or reconstructed or restored within a year.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64416	And here's the last replica for the minister, the esteemed colleague of Juričev Martinchev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64417	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, I am sure that these amendments and additions to the law will greatly speed up the restoration of earthquake-damaged buildings. First of all, the amendment to Article 10 which will allow for the renewal of buildings that are neither existing nor legalised, provided, of course, that on the day of the earthquake, the owner, co-owner or one of his relatives lived there, and of course that it is not a space that is not covered by a spatial plan as the possibility of legalisation means a protected area or corridor. If we know that only in Sisak-Moslavina County we have over 90 economic facilities that are not legalized and close to 80% of the population then we know that only by changing this article how many objects from that area for which we suffer great criticism will be possible to restore and be in the process of renewal.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64418	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64419	So again, I'd say there's really no real question here, but I'm particularly glad that I can only conclude you've been reading the right changes and additions. Some of your colleagues in this home have likely read wrong or have not read or heard some strange information in the coffee conversation. But you're absolutely right about what you said. And yes, to bury or ignore something that is not existing at the moment, and in it happens economic activity and resides I think it would be completely wrong. It is necessary to find a mechanism that will be able to categorize this as existing and without any enormous costs because the citizens who died in the earthquake do not have financial opportunities, regular as so far and to finance this legalisation as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64420	Thank you, Minister Horvat, you can return to the post, and I call on the respected Chief State Inspector Andrija Mikulić to respond to the replica of a respected colleague named Brumnic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64421	Dear counterpart Mikulić, I have a question that I opened on the Committee on Economy yesterday, and after that I received 10 phone calls from apropo on the subject. The question was about what the state will now practically assume on itself the responsibility of destroying objects, and the security issues of the citizens in this case have been directed to me by people who are protected by the tenants, people who have agreements on life support where they fear that their rights that they have today could be violated at the moment when the state approves of the collapse with the basis of the law force. Now, my question to you as well as yesterday, in which way you decided to protect these people, or how you decided to protect those people who are minorities in a building when most people decide to crash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64422	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64423	Dear President, Your Honor, we also commented on the committee yesterday. When it comes to extraordinary events caused by earthquakes, slides, floods, and the collapse of buildings or parts of buildings that can endanger human health, human life in exceptional situations, when exceptional events will bring such solutions. This property issue is a matter that is resolved in the previous law, which is the Law on Reconstruction. So he defined whether it is necessary or not to determine property when it comes to extraordinary events such as this if it happens again, don't let God flood or any other disaster.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64424	Thank you, Chief State Inspector, you can return to your post. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64425	The Honorable President was injured in Article 238, insulting common sense and me and everyone who listens to this. Today, we have passed the law a year and a half after the earthquake, so everything that could have collapsed by itself has probably collapsed. What we're bringing today is to make it possible for the law to be implemented or rehabilitated. It wasn't without the devil's sake, and believe me, there's a large number of people who could be damaged by this. And I don't believe that's of any interest to us. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64426	I believe that's true, but you've misused the breach of the Rules of Procedure and you're being warned. Now the replicas will be answered by Minister Obuljen Koržinek, first of all respected counterpart Bedekovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64427	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, the essence of the amendments and the addition of the Law on the Protection, Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, is that it actually specifies the provisions of faster treatment to eliminate the effects of earthquakes on cultural goods in order to actually be prepared not only for this situation but also for some new crisis situations and, in this sense, this very amendment and the addition of laws are actually one preparation for the general management of cultural heritage in some future crises. And I think that it is necessary to further and important to stress this one more time because, in fact, the management of cultural heritage in crises is, in fact, our future, not only when it comes to earthquakes and earthquakes of broken areas, but also when it comes to climate change, future elemental disasters that we will unfortunately be forced to face in the near future.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64428	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64429	Thank you, ma'am. MPs, that's what you're pointing at. Yes, I also pointed out that in my opening part, namely, in the opening statement. Namely, by definition of the Ministry of Culture and Media and our Conservatory Restaurant Service is constantly rebuilding, and here we may have been better teamed up and better prepared because the public service is continuing to take on such a commitment. However, these changes and these amendments of the law will indeed prepare us and allow the service to react systematically more quickly. Here, I can say after these urgent measures we took at the beginning of the year in the area of Sisak-Moslavina County, to list and assess emergency measures in Požega or in Požega space after that storm took us literally a week and within a month more than 5 million we directed such emergency measures, so the system was established and the system will be able to react very quickly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64430	My colleague, Pocrnic Radošević, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64431	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, I welcome the changes that will ensure that the law in question can be acted more quickly and decisions taken by the competent authorities to protect and preserve cultural goods in the event of the occurrence or declaration of exceptional circumstances, and that these exceptional circumstances are earthquakes, floods, landslides or other extraordinary events. I consider it necessary to warn that the system of control or precision in the law itself should be careful not to abuse the possibility of other extraordinary events. In this regard, we think that this formulation could also be used for some other purposes in cases where the investor wants to address the problems of cultural goods in the case of some other investments. It means that it defines that it's a matter of natural disasters, not of cases of negligence or of intent to destroy itself well, or eventually to get through an extraordinary event. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64432	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64433	Thank you for pointing out this, but this is very clearly written in the law, so on the one hand you have a procedure for removing cultural goods under ordinary circumstances, and the other in exceptional and they depend exclusively on declaring exceptional circumstances, so this cannot happen with someone's flat-rate assessment. The service of protection is being monitored and is always very careful in the situations you've been talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64434	Comrade Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64435	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Minister, the register of cultural goods is registered as cultural goods, in the four categories. However, I would like to warn the public that there are also cases where, in the context of cultural goods, there have been business spaces, so as owned by cities or states, I think that this law should be better defined and thus further defined that the better they deal with each other because it happened that they could not agree to rebuild precisely because of the fact that there are actually two entities that have this property, so it is very important that it is regulated and accelerated.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64436	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64437	Thank you for pointing out this and exactly what you said is why we are looking at these laws in the package, so this part of which you are talking about ownership is extremely relevant for the issue of the renewal process or for the question of whether the renewal will take place in accordance with the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, in principle, it is quite no matter who owns the position of values and the care of cultural goods, but this is extremely important at the moment when these administrative procedures are being initiated. I would remind here that in our mandate our register of cultural goods that you mentioned has become fully digitally available, it is now going into a new phase of development and all guidelines, all conditions will be very clearly available to each and present owner and any future owner or investor that will raise the level of protection and preservation of cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64438	And let's go to the last line, dear colleague Simunic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64439	I thank the Honorable President HS. Dear Ministers, in the amendments and additions to this law, it is indicated under exceptional circumstances that the competent authority is issuing consent to the removal. It's not just an earthquake that happened a year and a half ago and that's actually the main reason for these amendments to the law. Why are we just now discussing speeding up the removal of cultural well-being objects, which are the reasons why the procedure has not been speeded up immediately and on the basis of the examination by the authorised statistician, have reached conclusions, not that the removal of the competent authority's consent and the previous opinion of the Croatian Council must be reached? Why did you not speed up the outcome of the Croatian Council's opinion after you yourself appointed 4 members out of 8 members? This is another piece of evidence of our slow red tape, and nothing much is done about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64440	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64441	Thank you for your question. I'm sorry that you obviously didn't hear what I said at the opening, so all the removals that were going to happen happened under the current procedure. I made that clear in the introduction, so here we set a standard for a future situation, so no situation has happened in these years and a half that should have been removed any cultural good, and that the council for cultural good in accordance with the existing law did not react to it in a few days. So there was no delay, we here set a standard in really exceptional circumstances when it comes to endangering any neighbouring buildings or the lives of people and citizens so that in the event of an accident being declared that way. And our complete conservatory service and the council for cultural goods really worked impeccablely for them and for this place I thank them most sincerely.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64442	Thank you, Minister Ouljen Koržinek. We've come to an end with replicas. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yes, colleague Štromar, chairman of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64443	Thank you, Mr. President. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Assembly held its 9th session on 19 October '21. discussed the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law of the Law on the restoration of buildings damaged by an earthquake in the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje County, Zagreb County, Sisak-Moslavina County and the Karlova County with the final proposal of the law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 192. In accordance with Article 93 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council, the European Parliament and of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In addition to several opinions and proposals presented in the debate, the proposed law in question is supported and the members are most agreed that the adoption of the proposed amendments and the addition of the laws is necessary in order to simplify and speed up the renewal process. Most of the votes 9 for and 2 against the Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64444	Thank you, too. We are now opening a debate and is first in front of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, Mr. Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64445	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, in the past two years we have lived under the circumstances of two significant disasters, pandemics and two earthquakes, Zagreb and Banian. For the pandemic, we almost weren't ready, we missed the masks, we missed the vaccine, we missed the beds, we missed the respirators and, of course, the complete teamwork for it. Today we have all this, but we don't have what we had at the beginning of the pandemic. At the beginning of the pandemic, we had fear, and today we don't have it. We have a superstition to which some also contribute, including some who sit in this hall, including some who enter schools with other work and other invitations, not to spread superstitions. But that's the topic I'm going to talk about another time. The second thing that hit us is these two earthquakes that were heavy, serious, and tragic especially in the area of Bania. For that we lacked the means as we still lack the good part. We missed the organization like we're still missing a good part of the organization, but we're on our way. We're on our way to this job with certain delays, we have to admit that, with some lack of coordination, and we have to admit that, and we're not going to be less prepared for this job than I believe. As a result of such dealings with our preparation, we have these amendments to the law. And it's good to have them because there are legal obstacles that we've been able to warn about, going around the field, facing these obstacles in conversation with people and facts. Therefore, obstacles were detected, uncoordinated property-legal relations, the legal issue of buildings that were damaged, the issue of residence and the lack of data obtained, uncoordinated land-book data, catastra, unequal data, incomplete data, etc. They were all and were still until this vote, the law passed obstacles to faster recovery with available resources. It took us time to agree on the best solutions offered in this law, and it's done and now it's here in front of us in the debate. And everyone will contribute as much as they can and how they can and so will this club, in whose name I speak. Let's take it in a row. Liberation of citizens from the obligation to finance the costs of construction reconstruction. A significant change for a large part of our citizens in Zagreb, Krapinsko-Zagorje and Zagreb County because it was a serious obstacle. And we think it's a significant thing for owners or tenants, but it's also a significant thing for local self-government units where the state takes over what's already in force under the current law was a matter of local self-government units that 20%. The second is the higher thresholds of public procurement. Some of our colleagues and colleagues warn of the danger of increasing these thresholds, but with certain control and supervision it is possible to ensure this is possible to ensure, transparency and prevent possible abuses in the public procurement process. But as laws are passed in the protection of cultural goods due to exceptional circumstances and powers are transferred to the minister, so the amount is increased here too to speed up the overall process of public procurement to avoid fragmenting the procedure and to avoid delaying the procedure and slowing down the decision-making process for the granting of the funds necessary for the renewal. Third, replacement houses will be built and this law will open up the possibility of building residential business and multi-state buildings in areas where disaster has been declared, thus enabling the revitalisation and urbanisation of those areas. It would be good if the minister could say more about this because there's not enough talk about it. What this all means is that this is about Petrinja, whether it's about Clay, whether it's about any other area, whether it's about removing people's fears from one side, and on the other hand to show what the benefits are and to speed up the reconstruction process on the one hand, and also to increase the municipal, social infrastructure and the benefits of living under such circumstances. It's not just our experience, it's the experience of many countries that have dealt with it this way as proposed here. The fourth, simpler destruction of severely damaged buildings whether it is cultural goods, whether it is public business buildings or private houses. Of course, there is always a danger of conflict between fundamental constitutional values and fundamental constitutional rights. One is protecting the lives of health, protecting other people's assets, and on the other hand protecting the property of the one whose house needs to be removed. And the principle of proportionality requires a decision to be made and I think that such a principle is respected here and that it is necessary only to introduce strict control of people's intelligence so that we don't have a lawsuit later on because someone isn't informed in an adequate way that the house is removed. The fifth is the introduction of pre-financing in the payment of financial assistance and it is good when public and business facilities are involved, but it would be better to introduce it for private facilities, Mr. Minister. Many people in the area of Banija, possibly in the Zagreb and Zagreb rings, will hardly have the means to buy construction material on their own, and perhaps if they had previous funds to buy construction material they might ensure that the process of reconstruction goes faster than to wait for a total organized renovation. So I suggest on behalf of the SDSS Club that you consider allowing pre-financing here, because many people if you visit the Bania area will tell you that for them, the solution is to get funds for construction material, and after that, they cover everything that is necessary for the performance of works. As regards the restoration of non-existent objects or legal non-existent objects, this is also a significant and important change within this area, in the case of buildings which are not excluded under the Article of the Law on the treatment of illegally built buildings and, if so, on 22.3.2020 and 28 and 29.12.2020 respectively, so on the day of these two earthquakes, the owner or relative of the owner lived in that property. So all of this represents a significant improvement legally except for this moment in pre-financing. If there is no obstacle once again, I urge you to include this in the change either on the basis of the amendments we are going to make, either on the basis of your proposal on the government. What other two things are important to make? First, I'm going to say what's urgent, given that with this change of law, we're not going to catch the necessary pace. You said that no construction reconstruction goes faster, exactly goes, not fast enough, but it will go quickly both in the Zagreb area and in the Banian area. However, construction reconstruction for people living in containers in temporary accommodation must be immediately announced how it will be heated, who will bear these costs? I know you're not the Minister for that, I know it's the headquarters for that, but today people need to be relieved of their fears of coming to winter. These are huge costs for them. Economic activity and employment there are minimal, people's incomes are minimal compared to other parts of Croatia. Therefore, the state must provide subsidies as it did last year to cover those costs. And two big things, we're talking about rebuilding now, someone here said it's going to take 20 years, not only should it not last 20 years, but it shouldn't last longer for most of the three financial years, for most of them, because otherwise we're going to pass the exam, otherwise we're going to work against people living there. We'll only create assumptions that we have additionally devastationed land and additionally cheap land for someone who'll come up with a new fortune for small money. I believe the state is not interested. A project of economic reconstruction should be done parallel to this. And here someone mentioned economic facilities. It's a matter of the Ministry of Agriculture, I know it's not a matter of your ministry. But it's a matter of coordination between different ministries. There should be no competitions to pass, competitions that passed over 100 million kunas, which no one could de facto report to. That's exactly what my colleague was talking about. Therefore, on each other segment, not only in the legislative segment of reconstruction, but also in the legislative segment of economic recovery, it is necessary to make as simple a solution as possible. Everything here is simplified until, almost to maximum. It should be done when it comes to economic recovery because indeed, for people living in the country, the house is very important, the roof over the head is very important, but the barn, the workshop, the storage room for machines and for crops is even more important and for this reason we plead to the government that we must not waste time and wait for the renovation to be completed so that we can go to economic, economic recovery activities in that area. And finally, these 683.7m euros from the Solidarity Fund for the Zagreb earthquake and these, this 300m kuna advance, and in fact, 300m euros expected in the total amount for the Bania Area of the Solidarity Fund, which is a significant asset that has provided for the government's activity, i.e. the Prime Minister in the EU Council and the Commission, should be spent faster and should be faster because our budget available for the next year, for the year after and for the year after, in the third year budget far from sufficient for this process to be completed successfully, quickly. And speed is of great importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64446	Thank you, too. Now it's up to the Bridge Representatives' Club and the club's views will be represented by Mrs. [[Agreement: Club will, MPs will support this Act.]] Maria Selak Rasudiæ, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64447	I've been in the Parliament for a year. This is the first time in a year that I've been uncomfortable with this Assembly speaker. I'm really embarrassed. I need people who have not entered their homes, who are waiting for a very uncertain winter, in Zagreb for a year and a half, almost two days, will be. In Banovina for a year, I have to explain to them that we're blaming the law for everything again and that we're going to go into the third amendments to the law and try to convince them that anything can do well, and then beyond this pay phone, as a normal man, look anyone in the eye and say that we're doing our job well here. This is the first time, but really, in a year, ever since I've been committed here, I've been really, really embarrassed, and there are a lot of reasons why we and all of us need to be embarrassed. When I made an observation to Minister Horvato about what he used latinism "visible" instead of saying in the ordinary Croatian language "visible", it was not a mere language remark because they are excesses, and it is a bit untasteful in this way to do so because we are all wrong. I'm both wrong and I'm much more often than I'd like. It's about something else. You know, we all recognize certain psychological patterns that make someone inconclusive, so at a time when we need to show here how to control the spending of huge funds, and when the minister, instead of saying it in normal Croatian, is that the one in Banovina and the one in Spain who is not affected by the earthquake, but will pay it out of his pocket, that's the damage that it's caused, they should understand, suddenly turn into some latinisms, me, like every man, lights up. Why don't you want to be clear and understandable? Why such hard words? Because you're clouding the water. Mutate the water because you don't have an answer. Because this law is one big hoax and something that we all, in opposition at least, should refuse. We did not agree to the first amendments to the law, we felt that they were bad and unnecessary. We did not agree to any other amendments to the Law because they confirmed that the first ones were bad and unnecessary, or just the creation of the law. And now I'm telling you, colleagues and colleagues from the opposition that neither these thirds are good, and we'd better figure it out together than agree to what's going on here, and it's called moral blackmail, where we create an illusion that we're driven to the wall and that if we don't agree to these changes to the law, people won't be restored to their homes and that we'll be responsible for it. Comrades and colleagues of the opposition, the one who makes decisions based on moral blackmail, cannot make normal and rational decisions. Let us not agree to the deliberately created moral blackmail situation in which they want us to put the ruling structure in order to agree to changes to the laws that I quote the minister will not solve the problems but will bypass them. Didn't he tell us all that? The minister explicitly admitted that this law does not solve anything but bypasses. And do you know what happens when we go around? Well, we'll just fall over it even harder. Well, it's clear as day, and the minister himself has admitted that the law won't solve anything. So we're not going to be so naive and give our signature on what in the future will really and justifiably be everything and political, but also human because this isn't about any abstract changes but if we've ever dealt with something important, we're dealing with things right now, we're dealing with human lives, it's going to cost us all and it's supposed to cost us all. When we talk about what's happened so far, there's only one number. 13,703 requests for a renewal law, 511 solutions. 3.7% of requests have been resolved so far. That's where all the talk should stop. Do you see the resignations? Do you see the shifts? Do you see anyone's political responsibility? Nowhere. And do you know why no one's going anywhere? Since you were very uncomfortable in your conversation with the opposition that asked you legitimate questions that you were obliged to answer, so here I am going to step out here and prophesy to you. This statistic would kill anyone in the ministerial post. And do you know why you're still here? Well, just because the HDZ is so little sorry for you that they won't keep you even now, they're going to let you scream to the end so you don't spend some better minister and eventually they will, because it's already clear that this restoration will unfortunately not happen politically as the sole culprit for the restoration. That's why Ministers are still here. You'd better figure it out yourself because this statistic would kill anyone. The first thing to say clearly is that the rulings could, but they didn't want to change the law earlier so they wouldn't suffer political damage. They tell us now it's urgent, they tell us a week of counseling, and it took them a year to amend the law. So the only thing they cared about was their image, and the fact that people waited and lived in inadequate conditions for a year because of the preservation of the image was that they didn't care. The important thing was not to admit that we passed a law that was immediately, I will immediately fail the practice test. A law that the State Secretary himself called a failed experiment. The dokonic HDZ mind-exhibition, the inhabitants of Banovina affected by the earthquake of life's tragedy. Whoever thinks wider have a view of social political relations and awareness that the party's rule of law has to ask a question, and now we come to a moral blackmail, whether someone deliberately waited 5 to 12 to be under pressure inaccessible deadlines for the Solidarity Fund freaked out by hitchhiking demands and not moving out of place after a year. To be mentally prepared to sell us the story that the only straw of salvation is to cancel public procurement under the ninety-nine million kunas and dominate legal order, partially enable it to become illegal. Exhausted in the hopelessness in which HDZ knowingly cooks us, torturers who wouldn't be ashamed or naked island ideologists are ready to say, and counterpart Bauk is already on his way to kneel, don't give Arsena. Give me whatever you give, we'll close our eyes the papers are irrelevant, the purchases are irrelevant just to restore anything. Is the aim of these changes to bring down all legal barricades for someone's building private interests? After all, is this even the final version of the law? I'm embarrassed. Are you uncomfortable too? Someone can make a bad law once, fix it another time, but if we accept that a third change is necessary and we trust that person to work in our interest, the problem is with us. Fourth, fifth, here, look people in the road in the eyes and tell them how far. Which we don't know, and we should know because I'm going to continue to be constructive because it always needs constructive and even when it's pointless. If we could even discuss this law, we would have to know how much greater the potential cost of the state takes over on itself by this amendment to the law. The fiscal impact assessment is not available, but the minister said about 1.5 billion kuna at a board meeting yesterday. Based on what? Only the reconstruction of Zagreb is estimated at 86 billion kuna, and here we are told that the financing of 20 to 50% more construction reconstruction will be only one and a half, one and a half billion kuna compared to those 86 billion kuna. To whom does this assessment believable? There's something going on about it. Maybe we'll get some of it from the funds. We haven't pulled that money yet, and since it's possible, given the deadlines of the Solidarity Fund, we won't. So the real question is how much will this cost Croatian citizens? It will cost them 85,000 kunas, such as estimates per head of the working population of the Republic of Croatia. And is he ready to finance the third in a row of legislative changes that will make it impossible for a transparent renewal. He needs you to answer that question. Where's the report on the overall recovery course? Furthermore, how many buildings were ever illegally built and when? How many buildings have problems determining ownership, and how many requests have you simply not processed because you are incompetent or deliberately hitchhike? How much public procurement has really slowed down the processes in the first place, and there is no reason for them to slow down the unreal price of construction works in the programme of measures that have led to the decline of purchases. And now we come to the question that we owe an answer to every citizen of the Republic of Croatia who has been or hasn't been affected by an earthquake of wages from his own pocket without being aware of it. At a board meeting, the minister called public procurement unnecessary administrative actions. If you have a problem with public procurement, let's be constructive, first give us arguments and statistical analysis to which extent it slowed the renovation. If you want shorter deadlines for public procurement, then prescribe it within the law, and do not expect us to give you a Bianca signature that you will do the same by means of a sublegal act over which the Assembly has no control and protection of public interest. I can only conclude that these changes have 3 objectives. First, to keep the state most of the control over the money in recovery. Second, to reduce the control of these money flows and the third goal of political responsibility for all problems in the reconstruction of the government and HDZ and to transfer it to the Reconstruction Fund. From the very beginning, we have warned that we do not need a special Law on Reconstruction, that existing laws governing the state's reaction to disasters can be applied with certain modifications. We also warned that the primary emphasis must be on the recovery itself. The State should have taken over the well-known and verified practice of allocation of funds from eu funds. As a state, we should have determined the acceptable costs for the state, in which the percentage of these costs are borne by the state, and given to citizens affected by the earthquake by financial resources based on their reconstruction projects, and ultimately the state was to control them. Instead, the state has taken over the burden of direct construction work and others which will lead to significant activities in a material and administrative sense that it has already shown that it is not capable of public procurement. In this proposal, amending the Law on Reconstruction, it is completely unwarranted on the basis of the spins that came from the Ministry of Construction and Minister Horvat himself, it has been estimated that public procurement is one of the bottlenecks in the reconstruction, which has not proved to be true so far. So far, public procurement in reconstructions that had not been successfully carried out has been stolen because of the incorrect assessment of the value of certain transactions that were being obtained, and for this misjudged and too low assessment, the ministry and the governments that determined the same sub-legislative acts were responsible. This legislative proposal, which leaves the regulation adopted by the Minister of Construction without parliamentary control, which at least we colleagues and colleagues cannot allow in opposition, is certainly unacceptable to us. Furthermore, as we know and as Minister Horvat and Fund head Vangelic spoke several times, the Ministry of Construction has received over 12,000 renewal requests so far. Most of these requirements are reportedly incomplete, the purpose of these legislative changes is that the ministry can make a decision on incomplete demands and deliver them to the fund that will face the same problems that the ministry has faced so far. So, the problem won't be solved, it'll be transferred to the fund. These legal amendments propose one legal exhibition by which we will first carry out the renovation, and only after the completion of the renovation will we fully decide on the right to reconstruction i.e. make a decision on the renewal. In addition, although the minister and government claim that these legal changes for reconstruction will no longer be necessary to determine the property of a rebuilding building, we ask ourselves that the ministry and the fund will decide at all on the request of a person who, if it is not established, cannot be the owner of the claim. These are the changes the waist has given up. The Society of Architects Zagreb, the Association of Croatian Urbanists and the Croatian Chamber of Architects warned with an open letter from the prime minister because they did not consult them in due time, although the existing law prescribes advice that should have allowed the profession to monitor the restoration. These are changes to the law that the secretary of state who wrote them called an experiment. This experiment is not over but continues, and it is called the gradual passing of the rule of law and control anti-corruption mechanisms. We at the Bridge Club want the citizens' homes restored. We first came out constructively with detailed guidelines of the Banovina Renewal Strategy, we are one of the clubs that proposed the most amendments to the first version of the law in the assembly, but we must be aware that this renewal is paid by all citizens of the Republic of Croatia and that it will cost them 85,000 kuna per employee of Croatia. The minimum we owe these people is to ensure that the processes are quick and transparent, and corruption is disabled. Unfortunately, these legal changes offer all the opposite. So we can't and we won't support them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64448	Thank you very much, time. Now we'll still have the views of the HNS and Reformers' Club representing Mrs. Martincevic, then Mr. Klasic and after that he will be so-called Free speech or club attitudes, free club attitudes, clubs and independent representatives, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64449	The Honorable Vice President of the Assembly, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here we are a little over a year from the adoption of the first version of the law we have again found ourselves here to discuss amendments and additions to the Law on Reconstruction after the earthquake. Unfortunately, in those years of implementation of this law, many problems have been shown in practice that make it mildly difficult and slow down the reconstruction process. These changes and the additions that we are discussing today have introduced some things that I really believe will significantly speed up this process that we are unfortunately all of us here today are running extremely slowly. We have warned before that it is crucial to separate the issue of resolving ownership relations and resolutions because if we are to deal with ownership relations as a previous issue, we know that this has been resolved for years, and some for 10 years, we will do nothing, and therefore we welcome this fact that these amendments and the addition of the law are not going into property regulation before the restoration of constructive elements that threaten security is done, but that this is to be resolved later. It was also clear that with 90% of the recovery cases being private ownership, it was better to allow the owners to manage the reconstruction themselves and at the same time monitor the spending of funds. These changes and additions are allowed, so it is now possible to pre-finance the costs of construction reconstruction at the expense of mandatory reserves of multi-state buildings, residential and business buildings and managers will be able to obtain all the necessary services and reconstruction works, which we also believe is a good step and will speed up the process. However, money assistance for family homes will still be paid after the renovation has been completed, according to, of course, to the bills issued by individual completed works and that is good. It is also good that it is possible for owners and co-owners to carry out their costs and reinforced constructions, so above the level of reconstruction from the technical regulation for construction structures, therefore this possibility is well given. However, with one point in these amendments and the additions to the Law, unfortunately again opens up a space for corruption and for abuse and possibly even in serious proportions, so I would like to, I warned in this on the replica, but I would also like to explain it a little more, and to fully clarify the position of the Reformists on this issue. So in art. 10 amendments and additions to the Law on Reconstruction opens up the possibility that illegal objects are subject to constructive recovery, which is why I repeat, we absolutely support it because it is clear how illegal objects can also endanger the safety of people and adjacent objects. However, the problem is that in art. 14 of these amendments and additions arises the possibility that after that constructive recovery has been completed and after the final report and the renewal solution has been drawn up for that building, this regulation facility is beginning to be considered to be real, i.e. a legalised facility for which a powerful use permit has been issued. This therefore enables the automatic legalisation of objects that have not been legalised so far and the implementation of this provision opens up the possibility that a small number, something and apartments and these barracks and sheds, as well as whole houses and serious objects, will become, not only legal ones, but also become objects with the rightful permission, making the property that does not have value on the market at this time, a facility that is possible, can have an extremely high value, and here this will especially result in expressions in the City of Zagreb where real estates are most valuable, so that at this moment real estates that are worth nothing can, tomorrow, the day after and therefore donated legalisation will also be worth several thousand euros per square metre. I listened to what the minister was saying and I understand the logic of what he was explaining, so certainly there must be no obstacle to an illegalized reconstruction facility. So even illegal objects endanger both security and other objects, we've figured it all out and it's all clear and we support it. However, if citizens are paid to rebuild, they are paid to rebuild the facilities, they must pay the part relating to legalisation. So we didn't have the number of citizens of this country in that procedure and the legalisation process we had, she paid for legalisation. We all have to pay our bills here, pay our obligations, so also, all those who didn't legalize, they have to pay. Some don't pay for it, said the minister, here, poor people, don't have any money. It's all fact and truth, however, there's an entire... who have money so they took off their hands and said I won't legalize my attic apartments in Zagreb because I don't care if it was worth 0 until yesterday, now it'll be worth 4,5,000 euros because they're such objects. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I think that what we donate, that is, we allow people to rebuild their facilities, give them more legalisation that all other citizens in Croatia have paid neatly and continue to pay neatly, that it is not acceptable. So, rebuilding, absolutely yes, rebuilding and illegal objects, absolutely yes, but the part relating to legalization, citizens have to pay. Our proposal here, unfortunately not adopted, was that, instead of such a simple registration of a renewed structure, a legal process should be carried out, according to a special law. The recovery solution would be considered to have been submitted at the moment,.../incomprehensible/... actually submitted as a request for legalisation, here, if I were to say the simplest thing, and thus the illegally built buildings damaged by the earthquake would be able to rebuild, so they would solve the issue of security, but thus they would not be recognised the status of legality but would have to be acquired in accordance with a special law. Since I share my discussion with counterpart Klasic from HSLS, so I have cited a whole series of things that we support and welcome here and we believe that they are good solutions and that they are a step forward and that they will help to speed up all these processes, however, we consider this a serious problem and we will, in that sense, submit the amendment, and I would pray, of course, the Minister, that here, by the basis of these re-proposed proposals, try to find a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64450	You, too. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64451	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, distinguished ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. Before the earthquake itself, large parts of the centre of Zagreb and Banovina were exposed for decades to the collapse, non-preservation, neglect, and in Sisak-Moslavina County, the consequences of the war. It was also an additional cause of major damage and damage that occurred during the earthquake. This proposed law is a step forward and in the direction of skipping the problems that have become evident on the ground which in the first version of the Law, although made in the best way, are not recognized. Unregulated property legal relations are obviously one of the Croatian cancer wounds and pains and which did not only slow this restoration but also manage to block it. The proposed legal amendments should remove this issue from the law in order to make it as effective as possible. The release of citizens of the obligation to co-finance the costs of construction reconstruction, which will be financed by countries and units of regional self-government in the 80-20 ratio. These changes mainly concern Zagreb, where citizens' participation has been 20% so far, and depending on the social situation, and now 80% will be covered by the state and 20% by the city. In the provinces in which the disaster was declared, the reconstruction will be financed by the central state in a 100% amount. Although the proposal's intention is exclusively positive, here, on the one hand, knowing the practice of such a wide-ranging framework opens up a large area of abuse from individuals who will ultimately pay for all taxpayers, and on the other hand, the irresponsible behaviour of the citizens themselves is encouraged in relation to their property, because who, after such a change, will ensure their property from a natural disaster in the future when the state so generously covers all the damages that have taken place, wanted me to admit it or not. We often hear that ownership is sacred, but property needs personal responsibility for the same. The Constitution and the Property Act also commits that owners are obliged to contribute and general good what includes and their duty is to maintain their property instead of endangering the lives of passersby by many buildings. A ban on refurbishment of real estate as well as the obligation to enrol in the right of admission to the same property shall also be lifted. Tomorrow this fiscal key may then be applied to all aspects of our life where all citizens will pay for the damage caused by various justified or unjustified reasons on private property of individuals. The state should be social and be a support to its citizens in accordance with the property censorship in the event of natural disasters, natural disasters, but also in partnership with owners and investors, not to exclude them from any responsibility for the state of their property. In this action, the state should show fiscal responsibility to other citizens of the Republic of Croatia and I would like to see about this key item where the assessment of the fiscal impact is on the draft law. We know that so-called. The PFU pattern has an estimate in 3 years, but here we are all interested in how many countries will spend indicatively every year and for how many years. In this regard, and in view of the fact that the budget is tense, it is hardly worth a part of the money for wholesalerry that is sufficient proof that the very difficult fiscal situation that is making this law even worse. The second disputed part of this Rehabilitation Act predicts that the restoration of illegal buildings died in an earthquake, as my colleague said, will then legalize them, it is not a good message for the future. In the public debate, the law does not state that examples of the illegal usurpation of part of the building are concrete ceilings, which is a common example in the City of Zagreb, which is now being renewed by state money, with the possibility of legalisation beyond the will of the property owner. You also know that in the City of Zagreb many attic spaces are usurped and built housing units which will now and beyond the consent of the owner of the property be legalized and actually become the object of stumbling in the years and litigation of property relations. We are also opposed to any consequences that law enforcement might have, in terms of State and stakeholders' involvement in the negotiation and regulation of the price of construction works, but that it is primarily acquired to domestic bidders because, as we can see now, it has caused only the rise of real estate prices and the restoration of squares. Because let's be honest, there's a shortage in the market for construction companies and construction workers, it's hard for someone to get into real estate renovations at the price of EUR 1000 squares when today's free sale can make three times as much on the real estate market. We also believe that the existing law in Article 13(3) should propose the Croatian Society of Chemical Engineers and Technologists as members of the Council, and the reason is that they are aimed at production and one of the main professions in the study of materials and the production of construction materials including cement, brick, block, composite materials, glues, plasters, hydroissulation and thermal insulation materials where they are the most relevant. Given that a huge amount of material will be needed to be restored and applied, it is possible to expect market shortages and price growth if continued communication and compliance with producers that can be provided by the Croatian Society of Chemical Engineers and Technologists whose members are both engineers and producers of certain companies that produce construction material. I think this would be a considerable help in the work of counseling. Finally, the law is made indisputable in the best possible way to make it more operational and implementing but opens up a whole series of open issues that can be misused. If we change the laws, we must also change the attitude of citizens to their property in order to make it as effective as possible and to get the state institutions to start implementing what can be done under the law because otherwise the changes to the law are in vain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64452	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64453	We're going back to the debate. The following is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and will be spoken on their behalf by Vice President Miroslav Škoro.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64454	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues from the Social Democratic Spectrum, the respected Mr. Miletic, General Sacic, and the three of you from the ruling ones, have known the problem in the Croatian Parliament that it is difficult to attend the sessions and that even one explanation went so far that it was said that the pain in the groins is the reason why not to attend the sessions, and I would say that sometimes I have the impression that some people who run this country are really in pain for some things, especially when we talk about these 3 laws today that are united in the debate because they are in some way similar, they are complemented because how else do you explain the fact that the ruling structure dares experiment, and the experiment or experiment is not the observation and measurement of certain things to prove one hypothesis not with white mice and not to be theoretic? With people living in the City of Zagreb in difficult conditions in ruined buildings for more than a year and a half. With the people who are here soon to mark a year of living in bad conditions in Banovina affected by an earthquake. Therefore, we are talking about the Law on Reconstruction, the Law supplementing the Law on State Inspectorate and the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods. We, we warned this one especially from this one, from this part of the opposition that this law is actually inconclusive. He's inconclusive, he's bad, he's not well prepared, and it's gonna be a big problem in his realization, and unfortunately we were right. So today we're wasting our time again, we're wasting our resources again, we're talking again and we're trying to point out the fact that this law is now, or this set of laws, that they're now prepared, so it's not the right solution that's going to lead to our ultimate goal being realized. And the ultimate goal is to help these people no longer live in containers, to help them in the best possible way as they help civilised, civilised and well-organized countries. It's my intention to watch a documentary about Autobahn German how they actually made their Autobahn famous or highway twice as thick as it is done by Americans, at any time in 17 minutes not their emergency services but their ACADAC, ACADC, ACDC, is that it's called or ADAC can arrive so their HAC can reach any point of their highway. I remember a movie where a plane crashed in America and it wasn't any big city, but on the ground it was able to get almost 100 ambulances. And these are the situations that are happening, these are situations that are called "don't God", but situations that we need to be prepared for. We are not ready for this and we have even gone so far that in a process that should have been already at least half of our realization we go again, re-change that law and supplement it both. There I even underlined an interesting sentence that used adjectives such as hasty, hasty, urgent. What's so hasty about it? What's the rush? And what can we finally say to these laws? This first law is the most important is the Rehabilitation Act, perhaps through 8 points, to explain what is happening here. First, citizens no longer need to participate with 20%. What does that mean? That means that by now you should have given 20%, and the state would have given 60%, the city would have given 20%, it didn't happen, so that means that it didn't happen anymore you don't have to participate with that 20%. It's the only thing to conclude. The second is this famous public procurement, which has already been spoken of and is said to be the European thresholds of simple public procurement, so with 200,000 kuna plus VAT, this is now climbing into an elegant million kuna. It's a million and 31 thousand kuna, actually. From 500,000 kuna plus VAT to 39.7 million kuna. So that's a measure to stimulate the restoration. No, that's a measure to encourage corruption. It's a measure that will encourage the extra robbery of money only in much, much larger amounts. The third thing is building replacement buildings, so that's something that we figured out would be good because some are non-renewable, some are in this state or whatever, some are in the situation where they are, but there's no telling what's going to happen to those buildings that are destroyed, where the owners are going to get a replacement property, what's going to happen to these buildings that they have right now, and which one might be able to rebuild tomorrow? It is very important to help people, but it is important not to open room for further manipulations, and it is important that this one not be in a situation where something is an opportunity for others while it is a problem for many. The fourth thing is to rebuild illegal objects, so the ministry will issue a decision that will then have to be made by certain, certain state bodies and in the ministry, someone, again, is going to be able to decide who will be restored to an illegal structure. There's a good movie called "Who's Crazy here," are all those people who are crazy when they come out of their building licenses, in my useful licenses, I'm one of those fools who called the commissions, waited for solutions, made a blanket for them, paid a communal and water fee, and that's not a little bit and now it means we're going to turn the trouble into an opportunity. I think it's a kind of injustice, injustice to those who live and do according to the laws. The fifth thing is, there's a pre-financing mechanism being introduced, so it's a proposal for citizens to go to rehab alone and ask the most logical question in the world, why didn't we make it possible right away? What happened in the meantime, which sun dawned to make someone realize that we could do it right away and that, of course, the simplest thing could be just like that? The only problem is whether it will be worth it for those who have already started rebuilding themselves, whether it's worth retroactively, whether it's enough, whether there's a state of money, and all of them boasting in the ruling that we have billions of people, so to collect their bills, come and give it to someone, who's gonna give it to you and who's gonna refund that money because while we're waiting for the rain, the roofs are sneezing, people get sick because they live in difficult conditions. The sixth thing is the simplest destruction of severely damaged buildings. Here we have this situation that this proposal for a law supplementing the State Inspectorate Act, which once again provides a serious possibility for manipulation, serious, whether you want to admit it or not. We're giving authority to decide whether something's for demolition or not, so we don't have any real estate issues anymore, we don't have a problem with any, any kind of guy, someone can come in and say this building needs to be torn down, and then we can still be able to do something about it again. The seventh thing is to inform the public that the government has provided 360 million unambiguous loans, 180 million Sisak-Moslavina County, 150 to the City of Zagreb, 20 to Zagreb County and 10 to the Krapina-Zagorje County not to help and give but to unambiguous loans. It may not be on the trail of what we talked about here on several occasions and what was served as a situation in which the government of Andrej Plenkovic provided money, and so much so that everyone would get, as you said helicopterically, and large amounts of money. They will, but they'll have to be returned and another condition, when they're preparing documentation for renovations, so we're not fooling ourselves and we're not fooling the public, all those money might be booked somewhere, and maybe they can get to us, but there's a lot of oversteps, intersteps, that need to be made to actually get those users, and time is passing. And I can certainly say from this pay phone on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club that this is not the last amendment and addition of this law, there will be more, we will experiment further. In the law or in the final proposal for a law supplementing the State Inspectorate Act, the most important thing is that the power of the construction inspection is strengthened. Try to pass any city, especially in the coast, try passing the sub-slemenic zone in the City of Zagreb, and some other parts of the City of Zagreb, and you will see the efficiency of the construction inspection of the Republic of Zagreb. However, we now give them the authority to make decisions without the consent of the owner or co-owner and without the consent of the competent authority in accordance with the regulations governing the protection and preservation of cultural goods, they can make decisions, they have discretionary right to make decisions that many people very much mean, they mean property, they mean real estate, they mean life, they mean housing. The interesting thing to offer as an option is also how to deliver a solution, so you have a delivery solution that must be delivered to the person in a way that the mailman calls you, so you sign something to him, if you're not home leave a notice, so you go after it, but you also have a way that something hangs on the ad board. Sadly, in this legal solution we also have this way, it is cleverly designed to avoid any possibility of dissatisfaction by a solution to a building inspector who becomes a de facto little God. No appeal can be made for his solution, but a administrative dispute can be initiated. Another joy that will cost our citizens and our nerves and money, but there is no responsibility anywhere again, what if this building inspector has brought a bad assessment? What if he made the wrong decision? The appeal doesn't delay execution, some object will collapse, you can go into administrative dispute and you can get it, but last year's grandmother with cookies. And of course, we still have this third law. Dear Minister, I can see that I'm entertaining you and I'm glad for that, and you're entertaining us. That is, the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods. Anyone who in this country tried a little bit of business in the field of construction had one situation where they had to meet with famous bodies, state bodies that care and care about the protection of cultural goods in the Republic of Croatia. And it was a very interesting meeting every time and de facto meant either the inability to continue to implement a project in which you started or a factor one, two or more that they would include because they believe that it is very important to use a 1836 Mort in the rebuilding of some objects regardless of the technological progress in the meantime and it is very important to keep the 1700s and some years that it does not satisfy anything, let alone that it could be consistent with everything called energy efficiency that we all practice together. So here it's very important to see who has the authority now. There is a famous Croatian Council for Cultural Goods. That Cultural Good Council is one organization for which we all get together, I don't know, at least I don't know where her address is, but she gives previous opinions to the competent body of the Ministry of Culture and Media and City Institutes for the Protection of Cultural and Nature Monuments, she has presidents and 8 members. So, here, if you didn't know, the amendments and additions of these laws lead us to further complicated everything, that we introduced certain state bodies that we didn't even know existed, and thank the legislator for that and also, that we allowed manipulation with a much larger amount of money in public procurement, and we made building inspectors decide people's lives and deaths. Well, congratulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64455	Next is a debate on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club, distinguished representatives Brumnic and Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64456	Dear colleagues, 3rd time. What and how and why the 3rd time? Well, it's very likely because, and that's what I said the first time I said, this government doesn't deal with anything, this government deals with PR, creates fog and what's worst, doesn't know how to manage. It's a key problem in the functioning of this government and then this law. And then today, when you come on the third time on the same subject somewhere, you have to ask yourself a question when you give someone trust, and many of these people in this room have given, almost everyone except, as a colleague said, four of them, gave their trust to this government that they would solve the problems caused by the earthquake because they were real problems of the citizens because we honestly believed that when the law was passed, when we explained everything we said that this law was not good, that it would be solved by sublegal acts, that a programme of measures would be adopted, that there would be no rules and that there would be no problems, today we are witnessing that all that was said from this pay phone box was the problem today. This Law goes on to change, and no one, not on the side of the opposition, but neither did the authorities get an analysis of what and how it was conducted under this Law or how it was not implemented under this Law. The minister here speaks of the problem of public procurement. The government that is functioning, and we are in the same EU as Germany, we should respect the same directive the minister is calling for in the event of a flood in Germany in 15 days. In 15 days, the workers, the machines went out and no one in Germany believes the government is doing something wrong, doing something contrary to their interest. When the Rehabilitation Act was passed here at the first moment only for Zagreb, Zagreb County and Krapina-Zagorska, the prime minister and everyone around him accepted the entire urban reconstruction of Zagreb. In fact, this Law was passed as part of an election campaign with a fake, today I am telling a false presentation that it will provide a quick and quality renewal because to this day, and from the moment of the earthquake today it has been more than a year and a half and the only result of such a law is in fact the shooting of two people, Minister Horvat, who is here today and Mr Vanjelic, who has never actually been seen by any of us. We read a lot of articles about him, a lot of things were said about his abilities, the prime minister praised him, brought him in as a person who would solve all the problems. I have to admit, none of us from the Parliament, at least not in this hall, maybe somewhere on the road we met, didn't see him. What Mr. Minister and Mr. Vangelic respected were, in fact, reluctant, transferring responsibility from one side to another, and they were actually hiding the key thing, the unhappiness and incompetence of the government. And when we had already passed the first law in which we all believed that certain things would be solved, there was a second earthquake, and we had an amendment to the law, and we didn't change anything. I will remember then colleagues who supported the concept of adopting such a law, today they are in power in the City of Zagreb, today we listen here by the minister that they have not done their part of the work as regards the renewal of Zagreb or the adoption of documents. My question is, are they guilty, are you guilty or are we going to have to change the law once more to get these documents, and this is about the whole city of Zagreb being passed? Now let's get to some of this law's problems. The law deals exclusively with reconstruction in the existing form as it was before the earthquake, i.e. excludes the possibility of upgrading, upgradeing the facility, adapting the facility, which I asked clearly about yesterday that, apart from the Croatian laws that we have to say, the Law on Accessibility of Persons with Disabilities which cannot be respected under this law. It's not possible, for example, to install an elevator in the building regardless of what we're practically constructing. Secondly, it is proposed to enable the removal and construction of replacement buildings, and at the same time we do not see the fact that these replacement buildings under this law will not be built at the site of existing buildings but elsewhere, that people will practically be evicted from their facilities and Mr. Škoro has asked me before me one question which, after that, will be with this land, to whom it will belong and whether citizens who will be evicted will in the place where they lived actually grow the hotel? And since I shared the debate with my colleague Vidic, I will interrupt here, I will have more in an individual debate. What I'd just like to say is, the other day I ran into a sentence of Orwell that said how powerful you are, everything is seen by how many people are suffering under your power. So let this government wonder how many people who have suffered from the earthquake have they solved in this year and a half?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64457	Ministers and Ministers, I will agree with my predecessor when it comes to the Law on Reconstruction and to say that as the only advocate I have been affected directly and directly by the earthquake that happened last year in Sisak and since I live in that city I do not need any indirect information, sometimes I feel really what a handsome Croatian is called shame when I hear what is said about how many and what has been done and when I hear people, these are my relatives, friends and neighbors, and personally, my family has lost the house, so that I could, however, focus on these few minutes to say a few words about the amendment laws and additions to the Law on the protection of cultural goods. I don't think it's a problem to agree with the intensity of amending and supplementing this law simply because those in exceptional circumstances of disaster allow and change whether what is proposed is faster treatment motivated on the one hand by the preservation of life and the health of people who might be threatened by the destruction of the immovable cultural, these immovable cultural goods, and on the other and more effective protection of the cultural goods themselves damaged by disaster or disaster. However, these changes are only minor indications of major problems related to the protection of cultural goods in areas affected by earthquakes last year as a direct occasion and the reason for these changes. Namely, the specificity of the reconstruction of buildings that are covered by the Syntagma of protected cultural goods within this cultural goods within the cultural historical parts of the City of Zagreb, the towns of Sisak, let's say Gline and Petrinja, tenants, owners, users and the general public impose quite specific requirements when it comes to these good ones, and these particular requirements require specific solutions, in particular, when it comes to buildings marked as category B-0, B-1, B-2 in the programme of measures. Namely, these are cultural goods and someone's houses, someone's home, they're somebody's place of work, they're places where there's some kind of activity going on, having fun, spending, trading, living. These buildings are except that they are owned by those whose names are listed in the ownership list and the informal property of all citizens in our ruined cities with whom they bind their lives, memories, their urban identities etc., so the symbolic value of these houses is much higher than their market prices and they are indeed not only good, they are cultural goods. By amending this law, we are talking about how we will destroy them or temporarily remand them as dangerous ruins, but in fact we have not yet written anywhere on how we will restore them and not only as monuments to past times but also as useful, living, quality spaces for contemporary work and life because they must primarily remain in the function of life as a place of creation and the future, and not a sad past. It is a great challenge for all both the state and the local community and for the owners and for restorers and conservators, urban builders, etc. If the state of cication, bureaucratically transferring disaster costs to owners, including those who did not have a place in those good ones at the time of the disaster, none of it will be for more reasons. First, why would a superficial social analysis show that these valuable houses are inhabited by people of extremely low incomes, pensioners, officials, people of average incomes, who were still difficult to maintain and mostly inherited houses of their ancestors, which is evident from the situation they were in before the earthquake. Crying for the restoration of facades, roofs, and interiors. Downloading a burden on them or owners who have already sought somewhere else means that they will never be restored. Secondly, the overall renewal of these houses is extremely expensive and significantly exceeds the construction of new houses, and their market value is ultimately questionable after the renovation and thus the financial viability of the renovation. This specifically refers to houses in protected historical units of Gline, Petrinja or Sisak. If countries or cities want to preserve these cultural goods, they must take over the financing of renovations at all stages and in general. It should be kept in mind, for example. that the house perhaps designed by the same designer, the same age, preservation, size on Gundulić Street in Zagreb and the same house on the street near Tomislav in Glina after spending the same money in the reconstruction, equal money in both Gundulić and in Glina, will not be nearly worth the same. That clay restored will have a market value of at least 5 times lower than that of Zagreb and its market value will certainly be lower than the cost of reconstruction. It certainly won't motivate their owners to engage in reconstruction, even if they can get their own money as a share in the cost of reconstruction. Thirdly, if the state does not fully take over all stages of reconstruction based on the block reconstruction concept, the basic purpose of preserving the ambience value of the historical whole will not be realized. What does it mean, for example, a highly renovated secession city house if it's surrounded by ruins? The dotted reconstruction left to the owners about their financial power, the motivations to rebuild the very center of our work, for a long number of years will make places to avoid, not live in them. And with all that, however much rebuilding the building, especially in these historic areas, is important in itself, it's even more important to rebuild, these restorations of these whole revitalization units in the entire space that is gravitating the destroyed cities. Although the reconstruction in Zagreb stands, although in absolute numbers the damage is greater, I am more optimistic that Zagreb will be restored than when it comes to cities and protected cultural and historical units in Banija and Sisak. And without this renewal, without urban revitalisation, neither villages nor areas that have so far and without earthquake been deprived of the fundamental infrastructure assumptions of economic, social, demographic and cultural development will be revitalised. Without its cities, Bani will look even more like black holes in the Mechens, sink more and more into the dark, shackled and literally drowsy, unworked, desolate, peopleless, with ruins that will only remind future generations that there once was life. And I'm not pessimistic, so black and pessimistic because that's how I, no, uh, it's so much my view of life, I'm already aware that at the beginning of the year the government, even though at the beginning of the year I announced the big words of revitalization, has actually since summer given up offering to people who are living here completely depraved ideas and suggestions that have nothing to do with the restoration of life.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64458	Next is the debate on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representative Club, Honored representative Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64459	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of HS, the Honored Minister, the Minister, the Chief State Inspector. In front of us, for the second time, the amendment and addition of the Law on the restoration of buildings damaged by the earthquake in the area, I will read the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje County, Zagreb County, Sisak-Moslavina County and Karlovac County, which goes according to emergency procedures, so with the final proposal and we have 2 more laws in a united debate. What I might say at the inaugurally, there's no help. As long as we stand in a way that starts with us and ends with us and that there's nothing before and we have no experience before, and what's behind us, we don't care, we'll have this kind of bill. I've been in executive power, now I'm in the legislative, so I'm no longer sure if it's my advantage or my fault, that I've been in the executive power because I've been in every law that comes, and I don't think I understand everything, and I don't even know everything because I don't understand everything, I'm always looking at the aspect of how this law works. How do we make this law better, make it more successful, be it, always watch what the point is and the goal is, that we have all the tools that we can implement these laws. When I was in executive power, he was a parliamentary representative of the opposition at the time, and today he was the ruling party. Everything that was suggested by the ministry where I was, if we had suggested that today, I don't know, October 20th, he wouldn't have accepted it because they would have suggested something wrong. And I said then, I won't be like that. So the moment I'm going to be on the other side, I'm not going to be like that, I'm going to be careful, I'm going to try to always look at the aspect, so it's not easy, it's not easy, you have to have all the elements and you have all the tools in your hands that you can work on them. The first time this Law came, I voted against it, not because I disagreed with HDZ, not because I had other political views, because that Law then, in the way it was written, was evident that it was not enforceable, it was evident that it could not be implemented. Of course, the minister was as gracious as he was today, and he said it wasn't true, that he was about to, so a complete system reform of reconstruction was announced, all that was called. I have, today I have a feeling after all when someone from, say, the Lower Frfljeves that I don't insult, come and write the law, gave it to the minister and minister and the ministry after a year that worked under that law came and said the law was not enforceable. Minister, you failed your exam. You're in the correctional exam today, but you didn't learn anything from the fall. You need to know what you want, what the point is, you have to have the law not to answer it, the ministry has made a big step, sent teams to the field that people are going to apply, so that's defeating, that's defeating. These people can apply, so a few facts, that they live in real estate, that at the time of the earthquake there, that these properties serve them for their lives, and still they had to do everything, do the ministry. So the key question is who wrote you the law, who planted it to you that after more than a year you say I have a law that is not enforceable, you wrote it. Under that law, you could issue 9.4% of the solutions to those requests you received. That's your tool, you, so why are we writing special laws? We write special laws because at one point it turns out that the moment is such that we need to make a special law in order to be faster, to be more operational, to make decisions faster, later and solution. So, you could have called that solution a useful permit by the way, so it would be clear to everyone what it is, but okay, you decided what you decided. Every time I understand the meaning, when I understand the goal, when I understand it all together I can agree or disagree, but I understand what you wanted. In a law that was twice in the parliamentary procedure, so first and second reading, I didn't understand how you would have the tools in your hands to implement the renewal according to that tool. I was afraid, and unfortunately I was right that it would not be possible, and then I thought, well it doesn't matter that you decided in the City of Zagreb so let them manage, let them do what they want. Unfortunately, there was an earthquake in Banja and Banovina and those poor people there you couldn't leave in that way because the law has a difference, so you have a natural disaster, you have a natural disaster and disaster. Zagreb County and Krapina-Zagorska were also in the area of Zagreb, and there was a difference in the area of Banovina and Banovina, respectively. Minister, we've read that law. Every law when you pass, you have to make a script about how you're going to implement it. The law doesn't carry out any offices out there, the law enforces the ministry. I was at the time, and against the fund, did I ask you what the fund would do for you, what would that fund do for you? It'll be interesting to see how many people work in the fund. I have the feeling that Mr. Vangelic, who is at the head of the fund, is a chronicler that the reconstruction is not going, so every once in a while he goes out and claims that the reconstruction is not going and that the renovation is not being conducted. The only thing that would be right would be to go outside and honestly tell my people we haven't done the job right because something that goes wrong will never end up for the better or for the good. Something that goes wrong exactly the way it's gonna end. It teaches us the experience of life, I'm old enough to really say it. So in this law, you just try one of those, the fire burns all over the place, you realize that you can't take care of it, you realize that what you want to do is impossible to do, now we have a cup of water with which we now have some of these flames that are going beyond our control, and that's this, this amendment and the addition of the law. Not only will I be against this amendment and the addition of the law, our club that voted against the law has been put into parliamentary procedure to put this law out of effect. Namely, I'm talking to my colleagues, I've been talking to my colleagues the whole time, I'm asking you to tell me if you're going to start doing the elaborates and everything else based on the Rehabilitation Act. I must tell you that my husband is a statistician, we live in a building in Zagreb that is damaged by an earthquake. I've been having endless conversations with him and his colleagues about how in a block that only has a street and yard facade, which would mean even a renovation, which are new materials, which are new materials to use, what to do, how to inject, what to do is to make it a feature that brick that is therefore no longer binding tissue because when it was built there was no cement, but I'm not going to go too far, how to do, what would it mean for our building? We know exactly what it would mean, so you have to resuscitate the joints that have cracked, the staircase that is most sensitive in the earthquake, the street and yard facade, fortify the house and thus improve the static elements of the house that when the next earthquake is again there will be damage, but it will be significantly smaller. So I'm not telling you in a way like, so at this point I'm talking like someone who understands it, but forget it all together. And what's unfortunately out of this law you still won't be able to do. From our house, in our house and that's the main part of the city blocks you're thinking ideally, and it's imagined at the beginning in laboratory conditions, I'm talking about the City of Zagreb, as if people don't live there, so people in these apartments live. Anyone who could rebuild their apartment has restored, this rest will be agreed or agreed and already started to work differently. The area of Bania and Banovina is something else. So, a week after the Zagreb earthquake, I wrote an open letter to the late Mayor of the City of Zagreb, Mr. Bandic and Mr. Plenkovic, and then I told you to do some urgent interventions, so you have to resuscitate what it is, you have to strengthen and enable the strengthening of the constructive elements of the house and the City of Zagreb needs an opportunity to rebuild the city of Zagreb from the earthquake, which is the reconstruction of the Donjograd blocks. In this town of Zagreb, he boasted very much, and I have to refer here to the city block No. 19. I studied in another country, and in another century, I'm not going to be here right now, it's not even a secret how old I am, so it was '82, we had a degree in architectural, rehabilitation of the city blocks. It didn't matter to us at all then, because otherwise the students of architecture don't really care about their property, but we're designing what it is, my best friend got an A from the exercise transformation of the city block that we call block 19 today. It was '82, we're in 2021, no city block in the City of Zagreb has been transformed, and instead of getting some kind of narration out of this earthquake, we haven't been able to get the pomegranate tow of anything. So some things you can solve in a year, some things you can solve in 5, for some you need 20, and that's absolutely like that. If you decide to transform 168 of the Lower Town Blocks in the City of Zagreb and leave now, in 30 or 40 years. You'll see some results or you'll run something, urgent things had to be done right away, crashes, whatever was to be done, crashes should be done immediately. It was up to the start to decide on a model and to define precisely the people who want to renovate the funds and control them properly. You missed things. With this amendment and the addition of the law, you haven't solved what you should have solved. I'm just going to have a little time left in the individual, I'm going to talk to you about this, I'm talking to my heart, I care about this town, I care about every citizen in this town, I care about those unfortunate people in Banovina who are in containers and who are in these containers if we continue to live like this, I'm not going to go out and I'm sorry that messages like that have to be sent. So, we've been telling you since 2014. until 2018. We had a legal provision that I am not going to read now because I had too little time left, and it was about removing the ruins of the buildings, how the ruins were removed, who removed them, and then we had a decree, and we did it. Well, my people, we have some kind of history, we've had the Homeland War, we've remained home to the ruins in the very centers of certain cities that were protected from the aspect of the protection of cultural heritage that we didn't know about, which were dangerous to the lives and health of people, and not to say there's no city that doesn't have some kind of space that's called a rat. And now you have two aspects, one aspect of why the state doesn't do anything, do something. Another aspect, when it starts working, why do you do it just like that. There's no magic wand. I must admit that unlike some others who have debated here and who are by opposition I think the solution is for the building inspector to go out, to destroy something that is dangerous, which one can crash on the head of it, he does, and I say that in all other cases, he does not enter the property who owns the plot. I've been thinking even so far, so you can't come to the owner, the owner doesn't want to report, he's in some cases, now I'm saying it out of this elemental accident, the state, so it's recklessly related, that everything that cost the demolition, the construction of a project crash documentation, is going to be a burden that's going to be entered into the garland or there on that owner who one day when he's going to do something with his plot has to do something else because we have to have some kind of tool. And I have to admit that in this whole thing, I don't want to spill bile and be negative and try to be negative all the time, but this is an expression. My people, it's not good, neither is this amendment and the addition of the law going to produce what's wanted to speed up the restoration, there won't be any renewal, and we'll just be chasing our own tail like a cat on its own tail. What was done by amending the laws of Minister Obuljen Koržinek, which is about protecting monuments of cultural goods or whatever you want is a step forward. It was a problem for us. You always have a problem because you have something that's protected, how to deal with it, and then you have cases of one city and one mayor who's not among us, when he had such a problem at night, the building collapsed on its own to free the plot. Let's think about the tools and let's just think that I understand the meaning and purpose of this Law on Reconstruction and the tools that we have and see that these tools are feasible, first I'd say okay, but there's no luck for us, there's no movement and there's not going to be any renewal.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64460	Next is the debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, Honored Representative Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64461	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. A little over a year ago, we supported the adoption of the Law on Reconstruction, and we think it was the right decision at the time because things had to start from a dead end. Unfortunately, things didn't start from a dead end. However, the reason for this does not lie exclusively and only in the law as it tries to show itself. The reason for this lies first and foremost in the fact that the government and the ministry were not ready or able to do anything to restore the earthquakes in affected areas and then Croatia hit another earthquake and further complicated the situation. Dear colleagues and colleagues, law enforcement is not working and the question is whether the implementation of this law or these amendments and the addition of the law will work because what has proved to be the biggest problem in practice with this law remains unchanged. Introductoryly, I asked the minister to plead, to state his position on the trio of powers between the ministry, the fund and the central state office, which all have a certain role in the restoration defined by both the past and this law. There was no clear answer, and what do we see in practice? Almost daily bickering between the minister and fund manager, between Mr Horvat and Mr Vandjelic, who rarely includes Prime Minister Plenkovic. And instead of working on what should be a generational project of the Republic of Croatia at this time, how to ensure that this reconstruction takes place, but not only to remain on the restoration but to turn it into a revitalisation primarily of Banija, but then the City of Zagreb, we also have continuous crackdowns, calls for resignation, suggestions that people start to deal with politics if they are interested in it, etc., and the restoration of individual buildings, buildings, houses, apartments, remains a dead letter on paper. And at one point we even had a fight whether a solution was made to remove two or three houses, a year after the Zagreb earthquake, the main question was whether in a year we were able to remove two or three houses. It should not be said at all that this pace will be discussed in HS in 100 years, and I don't think it's an interest, not a desire, not a goal of each of us. The delegation of power remains. We did not write amendments, nor did we propose to change that because it was the concept of a law chosen by the government. But what we're doing, what we're going to do and what we're going to insist on is that the government is considering this concept, that after this experience of a year and some of the laws and years and a half of Zagreb has hit the earthquake and see if this can still work. And for a while after this law comes into force, we're going to look for an analysis, we're going to ask to see if even after these changes stand, whether everything has stopped or if these changes are really as promised by the minister for a certain shift. However, this is not the only problem that does not work in practice. Yes, this law also provides for some good things, so you don't have to run away from it. One of the good things foreseen by the law is to resolve better said delaying the resolution of property relations on real estate and the legalisation of these properties. I'll remind you more than half a year ago, the SDP's club asked for it because we were aware of the problems, solving the problem of illegal real estate. At that time, the government rejected it with a reason to please people whose houses were torn down or damaged. I'm gonna do it again, and it'd be good for people whose houses have been torn down or damaged. We found such an argument embarrassing and then, we find it embarrassing today, but it came to the head that the problem exists and that this problem should be solved and therefore we welcome the shift that happened to this law and to help those who did not use the deadlines because of ignorance or indifference and did not initiate the procedure for legalising their buildings. We also welcome a solution that goes as I said not to solve but to delay the issue of property relations. But respected colleagues and colleagues, were all the properties that died in Zagreb, Petrinja, Sisak or elsewhere illegal, were there really unsolved property relations on all these properties? Well, of course they're not, of course they're not, and the renovation didn't happen on those properties where the papers are clean, which are legal and which are registered. Why? Because like I said, the law in practice doesn't work, and it doesn't work because of ignorance, incompetence or something else in those in charge of carrying it out. And I'm afraid this problem will exist even after the adoption of these amendments and additions. And when we talk about issues that don't work, I'm going to end up with the ones that are extremely important to me because I talked about it personally in January of this year, which is revitalization. Revitalisation, but not only of Banije but also of the City of Zagreb, the City of Zagreb, which especially in those zones affected by the earthquake such revitalisation needs. And I'm going to pull a parallel in a New Zealand that's far richer than Croatia when one of their cities hit a devastating earthquake 10 years ago they realized that they can't stay on what was and go back to the old ones, that and that rich New Zealand needs a revitalization of life, needs a revitalization of the city, needs a revitalization of places where people want to live, want to stay, want to build their business and other careers. We do not have these revitalizations in Croatia, the only thing we have is the knowledge that one plan was made and that it ended up in the drawer of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Plenkovic. The revitalisation plan exists, but it stands, standing because Andrej Plenkovic does not want to give it to the light of day and does not want to act on it. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I cannot stress enough how necessary this revitalisation is for any form of earthquake recovery to make sense. If we know what problems existed, especially in the area of Sisak-Moslavina County with jobs and with the eviction of people, then no one in their right mind can be back to what was. If we're going to invest, not spend, invest billions of kuna in that neighborhood, then we have to invest them with a desire to make the end better, and it can't be just a return to the old one, it has to be a step forward and it has to be a step further. Therefore, the revitalisation is crucial and necessary to make sense of the recovery from the earthquake, and we're not talking about it at all, the stories about it have completely stopped. These are problems, but it is also correct to talk about things that are in the law of good, which are better at law and which represent a step forward. I mentioned one, this is solving or better said delaying the problem of unresolved property relations and legalisation. It is the second decision of the State to finance the construction reconstruction and that is good because the construction reconstruction is not only an investment in someone's real estate but it is a public interest because it is done in investing in security and other people, those who are neighbors to that property, and those who pass by such real estate. We had a recent situation that from a property that wasn't renovated, a piece fell off and injured a passerby. Such things must not happen, especially when it comes to public-owned real estate, which should be managed by the Republic of Croatia, but not by other real estates. This is why the decision to rebuild construction not only in Banja is that we have managed to result in pressure from the beginning of the year, but also in other areas to finance public funds entirely. And that's something we certainly support and represents, in fact, the most important step of this law and perhaps the most bright point in what is proposed in the law. However, apart from the conceptal problems such as the trio that correction can happen only by the political decision of the government and those that are actually in the first rebuilding show, which is the prime minister, that is, there are problems in the law that we think can be solved by amendments, and we have submitted these amendments. The law also mentioned in this amended and original law the issue of renewal which, according to standards, crosses the minimum level co-financed by the state. And it's normal that there's a part of the people who decided to rebuild it because they want to live in safer facilities. They want to be sure if there's a new earthquake that won't happen to them, they won't bring the ceiling or the walls down on their heads. However, respected colleagues and colleagues in the law are not clear whether anyone who opted for such a stronger renewal of the right to co-financing, if there is a good way to put it in writing. That is why we have proposed amendments to Article 11. and the 12th and we want those people to have the right to co-financing that they'd get if they'd decided on the so-called so-called. minimum reconstruction, construction reconstruction. What crosses this minimal reconstruction of the structure and by the concept of first reading, or pardon, according to the concept of the original law, falls within their cost. Next respected colleagues and colleagues, the issue of co-financing of family home renovations among those who have decided to do so on their own. If you look at the article. 24th of which is changed. The 36th Law will show that those buildings that have managers predict that co-financing can take place before, during or after the renovation. We think that such a solution would be correct for family homes. Therefore, we ask that you consider this and that the owners of the family houses who have decided to do so. We don't put self-renovation in a more unfavourable position compared to the one where the building owners have. Instead of being happy that there are people who are willing to renovate their own properties and to encourage them in this situation, we are putting them in a subordinate position and it is simply not good, especially when we know just how many family houses in Banija and Zagreb have suffered from the earthquake. And finally a question of public procurement and public procurement control. Public procurement has not been abolished, and this should be clearly said, this raises the thresholds. Whether it's good or not, it's the government's responsibility. If the provisions of EU law are violated, the European Commission will react to the procedure envisaged. However, what we have in the SDP is a questionable provision. 29th Amendment of Art. 29th 41st, which is an obligation to carry out technical financial control of the reconstruction of public buildings. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we've raised public procurement thresholds and I understand your intensity on why you're doing this, but I can't accept that you're giving up technical financial control, especially when you're rebuilding public buildings. Croatia is a country that has a deep and rooted problem of corruption, we know that. Some of the judgments of a few days ago are particularly visceral. When I see that he's giving up financial control in the process of rebuilding public buildings, then I get the alarm bell. Dear colleagues and colleagues, let us not give up on this, this is extremely important. In short, this law has good and bad sides our position whether we support it or be abstention will depend first and foremost on how the Government will set itself up on the proposed amendments. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64462	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives will be that of HNS, HSU and independent representatives, and will be spoken by the respected representative Predrag Štromar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64463	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues are before us other amendments to the Law on Reconstruction, a key legal framework that defines the process of rebuilding and revitalising the area of earthquake victims during 2020. Since the beginning of the preliminary version of the law, after the March 2020 earthquake in Zagreb, and even later during subsequent amendments to the law, I insisted, and I insist that the reconstruction must be swift, efficient, quality and transparent. All must also have equal treatment and therefore the cost of reconstruction must be evenly and equally distributed among all stakeholders in all areas regardless of the development index because it is the only long-term, fair, sustainable and reasonable solution. That is exactly the solution I offered nine months ago for this speaker when we discussed the first amendment of the Law on Reconstruction where, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS and the Independents, I proposed an amendment in such a way that for the basic residential property, all citizens should be equalised, that the Republic of Croatia should finance the construction reconstruction at 100%. I'm free to read it again. Article 5(2) also states: “The funds for the construction reconstruction of family houses, business residential and multi-state buildings and the construction of a replacement family home that are unusable or temporarily unusable, including the costs of temporary storage of things, will be provided for the territory of the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje County, Zagreb County, Sisak-Moslavina County and the Carlova County in the state budget of 80% and the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje County, Zagreb County, Sisak-Moslavina County and the Karlova County, at 21% in their real estate budgets in their areas. While the assisted areas will be subject to a special regulation, where a disaster of the Republic of Croatia will provide funding in the state budget of 100%." The amendment is then not accepted. Why? I don't know. All I know is that citizens have lost nine months waiting for restoration just as we have and as a society lost nine precious months to prove our social sensitivity, efficiency and justice and to actively rebuild our cities and municipalities. However, I am pleased that these amendments to the laws that we are discussing today contain our proposal as it is crucial for the successful restoration of the earthquake of the affected area and all other changes stem from this proposal for a solution offered by the HNS Club and independent representatives nine months ago. But this year has also served us to detect critical points about the reconstruction process and to offer adequate solutions that prove this bill. I would point out that this tragedy once again reminded us that we must have built protocols of crisis management. This means that, under urgent circumstances, we need to set up a system in which to know exactly who needs to do what, in accordance with precisehodograms, within which deadlines the assigned tasks must be fulfilled, and all to prevent the future of chaotic situations and the escape from the responsibility that we have witnessed after the earthquake in Petrinja. And now he would suggest changing one anomaly. Namely, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, whose president I was last week, received a letter from the head of the Municipality of Gornji Stubica that the earthquake-induced disaster should also be declared as the area of the municipality. The same letter was sent to the Prime Minister. Let me explain. Namely, according to the letter in an earthquake that hit the Upper Stubica area on 22 March 2020, 283 buildings were injured, in subsequent earthquakes, especially in a petrin earthquake that took place on 29 December, and several new facilities occurred, which account for more than 16% of the victims. 29 families were then evicted from their homes and are in temporary accommodation, and today they still cannot return to their homes. The earthquake damage may not be so pronounced in the areas of other local self-government units in the Krapina-Zagorje County as in the municipality of Gornja Stubica and of course there may be no conditions for declaring a disaster for the entire Krapina-Zagorje County. But it is certain that the municipality of Gornja Stubica suffered significantly in earthquakes and that it is unfortunately within the context of the population's suffering in the area of Sisak-Moslavina, Zagreb and Karlovac County. Therefore, from this municipality, and I think it would be fair to include Gornja Stubica in the above decision to declare the earthquake in the area affected by the earthquake. This request, which I consider justified, has also been supported by the fact that certain rights and reliefs are being exercised, and regarding the decisions of individual ministries and other institutions which allow disaster-produced residents, while residents of Gornja Stubice do not have the rights, although they individually have damages that are in the range of damages in the areas in which the disaster has been declared. Here's just one concrete example. In practice, this means that the Ministry of Science and Education fully bears the cost of housing in student and student homes to regular students who have obtained the right to subsidized housing in the academic year 21/22, who have a residence in the area of disaster declared. The municipality of Gornja Stubica also has students and students who have been evicted from their homes and parents living in temporary accommodation, and their facilities have a red label. So they're in the same situation as students in the area of disaster, but they don't have the same rights. So I repeat once again, in the process of renewal, everyone must have equal treatment and the cost must be evenly and equally distributed among all stakeholders in all areas regardless of the development index because this is the only long-term sound and reasonable solution. Please accept this idea, correct this anomaly. Following the said Club of HNS, HSU and independent MPs, they will accept these amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64464	The next club of MPs will be the Homeland Movement, and time will be shared by the respected representative Vukovac and the respected representative Dretar. First honorary representative, Rose Wolfovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64465	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with a co-worker, chief state inspectors, colleagues and colleagues, so there are two bodies implementing the renewal by the ministry's decision as a third body. So, the first is the Agency for Reconstruction within which 9 buildings have been removed so far, and 13 more buildings are under way, and the Central State Office for Housing Care, which has not removed or started rebuilding any building, but has started working under the Civil Protection Act and the decisions of the headquarters of the so-called headquarters. organised no reconstruction structure and refers to chimneys and dental walls. Your Honor, I truly believe that this debate is being followed by people from the earthquake victims. How do you plan to bring these people back to a better future and a smile on their faces? The opposition, as well as the National Movement Representatives' Club, advocated a model of reconstruction in which the state should grant private owners the means to renovate its own assets but the proposal, although it seemed to exceed and acceptable to many whose properties were still rejected by the ruling ones. Today, when we look primarily at the epilogues of a catastrophic postwar reconstruction designed by a similar model as the ruling one carried out for this post-traumatic slow and inefficient restoration, we fear. Fear for those people who will resuscitate in a practically open world. We are increasingly convinced that the model of reconstruction or self-renovation that we advocated when we first passed this law is the only one that is correct. Such a model would reduce the ever-present corruption that is to God and the ruling one wants to control, and they are exactly the opposite. They generate decisions that allow for further development and accumulation of various corrupt actions. From the report of the City of Zagreb Reconstruction Fund, Krapina-Zagorska County and Zagreb County, we find out how the fund has since the beginning of the year indicated the need to amend the programme of measures and service prices, which was partly and partly done but only in September and by decision at the meeting of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Decision granted prices for small buildings in line with market prices and, as soon as the new programme came into force, the Fund could finally initiate 43 procurement procedures that had been annulled because no one had appeared to them and because of the low prices. Finally, the criteria for public procurement for professional supervision and the implementation of the work are defined, and are now only open to competitions and public procurement for reconstruction because there are criteria for all participants to be put in place immediately at the beginning, and not almost a year later. The most priced services provided for by the first programme of measures in the less-squared buildings were not marketable, so the tenders which were carried out afterwards were, of course, annulled. And that's where it's been a long time. The opposition was when the Law on Reconstruction was passed, and later the Fund we pointed out the signs of obstacles that would arise in the implementation of the renewal. They pointed to the problem of staff shortages in the ministry sector, the Agency for Reconstruction and the Central State Office, which would have access to the settlement of the cases received professionally, quality and up-to-date. In the meantime, we are witnessing a partial rejection of requests for the transfer of employees to the fund. The current fund is awaiting approval by the Ministry of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property for Market Employment. So, from April 23rd, '21. In the meantime, we don't know if the fund's request has been granted. Croatia suffers from the problem of too many implementing bodies, in other words we are scattered with key resources. There is a small or minor synergy between the body. No knowledge sharing, cumulative monitoring and reporting have been difficult. The uncoordinated processes between the bodies of the public administration in our country from this pay phone have been warned many times, and everything actually breaks on our people's backs or over the backs of a small man. The Fund proposed solutions such as centralised procurement, project management, control, reporting, public authority, public authority to the Fund for Reconstruction such as the proposed transition of the elemental disaster sector to the fund itself. And we don't know how many of their demands are truly granted. Barriers in the implementation of reconstruction also create unresolved property-legal relations, all of which are accompanied by uncoordinated participation of citizens in areas of disaster outside the area. The difficulties arise as data on co-ownerships in the ministry are collected during the administrative process, as well as the fund records the situation in certain co-owners' parts. The subject of reconstruction should be a building, the public interest should be its earthquake resistance and the prevention of killings or damage to property. The implementation of the full restoration is a proper final goal, but now all focus is on the construction reconstruction. The proposal for a solution to ensure financial energy reconstruction of buildings at the same time as construction reconstruction was also rejected by the promoters and rulings. We continue to believe that it was necessary to provide credit lines to citizens with an earthquake of affected areas to finance the remaining segments until full recovery. The opportunity for urban reconstruction has also been left behind, missed by the Law on Reconstruction. Citizens could finance the full restoration of buildings that would make them more efficient and more attractive to life. The question is, what about new slides and ground movement? Is it necessary and urgent to change urban plans, and all according to the studies made up of the Faculty of Mining and Geological Oil, how late are we behind these coordinations? The proposal for a solution was also to define the Rehabilitation Act the accelerated pointary changes in urban plans according to the urban study. We doubt, however, that these amendments to the law will lead to that. Let us not forget to mention the problem of changing prices for more. Our global reality facing society as a whole. Let us also mention the fact that taxpayers' money is being renewed and those facilities are illegal. Is it really fair that they built their facilities legally with permits that are not easy to come to or pay for not small amounts of the outcome of certification of the retention of buildings in space or legalisation? Is that what makes this society a constant injustice to those who do their best to obey the provisions of the law? What message do we send to our own children? For the end, I must also present the fact that the funds amounting to more than 100 million kuna, which at the expense of the State Treasury in the recovery aid operation after the earthquake, were paid by a number of citizens and companies from Croatia and abroad, as well as by international organisations and foreign governments only slightly spent on rebuilding citizens' housing units, and about 60% of that money was still allocated for some other purposes related to the earthquake. The proposal for a decision prepared by the Ministry of Finance for the Government, which defines the way the money collected by donations is seen that 40% of the money, or around 40 million kuna, has been provided for and given to the Central State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Care, for the removal of family homes and the construction of replacement family houses, up to 20% of the donated money and 20 million kuna respectively, has been planned to go to the expense account of the MUP for the costs of natural and legal persons mobilized by the Civil Protection Directorate's task, therefore these funds planned to finance compensation for civil protection members who have been mobilised, but also to the various companies involved in removing the damage after the earthquake. For example, it is about companies that have set up tents, transport companies that carried mobile homes, construction companies that have worked on the recovery of chimneys and roofs or which have hired cranes but also the state-owned company Plekler who has been engaged in preparing food for the victims in the earthquake after doing so for days by volunteers and owners and employees of famous Croatian restaurants I remind myself of without any compensation. Citizens and companies, except for the money to restore and cover the costs of mobilization, seem to have donated money to stock stocks, without being aware of it at all. Thus, 10 million kunas and 10% of the donated money were planned to be paid to the Ministry of Economy or the Ministry of Stocks to cover the purchase costs of goods in accordance with the headquarters decisions. I recall exactly the goods stocks were most criticised after an earthquake in Banovina due to a delay in delivering aid, so containers and tents used to come from the farthest places in Europe than from the stock reserves. I find it correct if the representatives of the motionors today tell us a few words about this as well. Especially because of citizens who paid donations and took away from their families to help the victims. They have the right to know where the government spent their money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64466	Honorable representative Davor Dretar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64467	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues, colleague Vukovac covered this part of the Rehabilitation Act but since we have a united debate today I will only have a few sentences on the Law on the Protection of Cultural Goods and Amendments of the Law on State Inspectorate. There is not much to say, I have promoted and read a little public debate primarily about the Law on the Protection of Cultural Goods and seen what should certainly be highlighted. Therefore, under Article 64, the competent authority may issue consent to the removal of a fixed cultural good or part of it when it is found to be permanent or major damage directly threatened by the stability of the building and it poses a risk to neighbouring buildings and the lives of people, and we cannot, of course, remove it in another way. The consent of this competent authority may be issued only with the prior opinion of the Croatian Council for Cultural Goods. Now, according to their definition of the Council for Cultural Goods, it discusses general issues in the field of protection and preservation of cultural goods and continues to be recommended to improve the activities of protection and preservation of cultural goods. The following is said to be familiar with cultural goods protection programmes and their implementation, and then we need to read, read, read in order to finally come to a decision on the declaration of threatened cultural goods and opinions on removing immovable cultural goods, etc. What I have personally seen as illogical is the fact that we do not have any representatives or representatives of the real profession, construction engineers, statisticians or any construction designer in the composition of the cultural goods council. Understandable persons who, along with their professional status, would also have the approval of the Ministry of Labour on Cultural Goods. This is how it seems to me that in these amendments of the law we have again a group that will discuss and decide on the removal of cultural goods from the cultural sphere, and the possible establishment of a professional commission may also bring us some person who, for a serious reason and of course, is even more important how to remove a building. We're going to see sublegal acts, various commissions and other administrative devils again, instead of from this place that we're changing the law to be clear and precise and to allow people who know their jobs without a single problem to do the same work and work. Obviously, we still don't have good, real and competent people in good and right places. The earthquakes that hit the Zagreb area, Zagreb County and Zagorje, and later Banovina area, apparently exceed the possibilities of our experts when it comes to rebuilding buildings and returning people to their partially or completely destroyed homes. Guys, winter's coming. Thousands of people, including old people and young children, will spend this winter in some sort of temporary accommodation. Some in relatives, some in hotels, some in containers. Especially bitterly echoed the fact about the situation in the town of Zagreb that we could see a few days ago, that a security company kept hundreds of city dwellings staring empty and people had nowhere else to go. We here in the Parliament, without a doubt, will bring another string of post-traumatic laws, which, like the ones we brought here one more year ago, we fear, will remain a dead letter on paper. And the Act on the Protection of Cultural Goods and the Law on the State Inspectorate, we have here, once again, of course, in an emergency procedure how, of course, it is a custom when we have to solve something quickly. But we can say and remind ourselves this time. It's been a year, even more. We here in the Parliament bring laws in full sprint, but unfortunately rebuilding our paws by wearing shackles of incompetence around our ankles. And as for our Croatian Zagorje, here, there is a respected minister who is a Međimurec, well Minister, we Međimurci and Zagorci have always been good with the Croats, I hope that still is. We have heard from a respected colleague, Štromar, we have many families still, in Krapina-Zagorje County in temporary and necessary accommodation, let us not forget them either. Of course, Croatia's capital needs to be restored, the destroyed Banovina needs to be restored, but the Zagorci will, they know, but above all, deserve to have their roof and completely right and equality under it and live. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64468	The next club of MPs will be the HDZ, time will be shared by respected MPs Nikola Mažar and Andro Krstulović Opera. First of all, Honorable Representative Mazhar, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64469	Thank you, well-respected HS Vice-President, Honored Minister Horvat, Honored Secretary of State Poljičak, esteemed colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. Let me say a few things on behalf of the HDZ Club which I did not plan to say, but simply the debate would force me to say to the wider Croatian public and citizens and to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia here today, and point to the debate that was at some point, I would say, not only tending, but malicious and untrue. What's this about? So, we have witnessed through today's debate that virtually everyone supports the amendments and additions to the Law on the Reconstruction of Buildings damaged by the earthquake in 4 Croatian County and the City of Zagreb because these amendments and additions to the Law that were not as MP Selak Rasudić said, thirdly or what Mr. Mrak-Taritash said secondly, these are the first amendments and additions to the Law because the amendments and additions to the Law that we passed in January this year were related to the earthquake that took place on 28th and 29th December in the area of Sisak-Moslavina County and Karlovačka County, and for this reason went to the expansion of the partial Law that was brought about the City of Zagreb and the Carlovakia County. Therefore, these are the first real amendments and additions to the Law, and they refer to what we have heard. So on things that will bring faster, more quality, more transparent and more efficient reconstruction, but will bring above all, the release of obligations for citizens to co-finance construction reconstruction. A complex property-legislative relationship will be resolved, public procurement procedures will be accelerated, the possibility of pre-financing of costs of construction and construction reconstruction will be resolved, the issue of non-existent buildings will be resolved, and more effective and faster resolution of the removal of family houses. Therefore, I believe that all those who are in the interest of not only rebuilding but everything and what follows in the Banovina area and in the area of all other counties can in some way have nothing against this. However, I must look to the lies that have been told. First of all, today we have heard certain MPs who are in some way protectors of transparency and express attacks on, above all, the minister, related to public procurement, or on thresholds related to the Public Procurement Act and EU thresholds. It doesn't take much and it doesn't take much, it took me 25 seconds to enter the law on Gunja that was passed during the SDP Government in 2014 where in Art. 4 it explicitly states that the application of the Public Procurement Act to all purchases below the EU threshold is suspended. Thank God, the cost of rebuilding Gunja ranged from 650 million to somewhere a billion kuna. Unfortunately, the cost of this disaster is estimated at around 17 billion euros. If we see that for 650 million kuna, it was not problematic to amend the Public Procurement Act and suspend it from the same SDP government, and today it is problematic to do the same, but not in the same way. It is now done in a way that the DECOM will continue to monitor public procurement, that it will be able to appeal to DECOM and that it will be able to submit an administrative dispute to the High Administrative Court, which at that time was not possible and now this... Also, it is easy to check that the public call regarding Gunya lasted an incredible 2 days. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also verified that the court expert brought and calculated that the square meter for Gunjo amounted to EUR 950 and EUR 920 respectively, and then the ministry headed by Mrs. Mrak Taritash approved EUR 1,950 of reconstruction per square metre. It is also checked in all the media that wrote after they made septic pits worth 64,500 kuna. Therefore, it can also be seen in the daily newspaper last year enough to type in the renewal of Gunja, the title is Vuku to have its tails restored to Gunja, in 2020 until today, not all of these problems have been solved, nor the legalisation of the objects that the Ministry of Construction has created, and we have originators who today have a questionable thing that is much more transparent and much clearer than then. On the other hand, we have heard today that simply no one has done anything for Banovina or for areas that unfortunately have suffered a disaster. Allow me in a few minutes with regard to the debate I share with MP Opar, and later I will look back at the individual debate to indicate just a few exact and exact facts. We must first of all be aware that unfortunately after the catastrophic earthquakes of December 28th and 29th, there have also been subsequent earthquakes that were more than 1223 of which 142 are above the volume of 3 per Richter. For this reason, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has also set up a civil protection centre to remove the consequences of the earthquake that is daily committed and tirelessly working to eliminate the effects of the earthquake and to help the affected population in the affected area and to ensure that the link and unity of efforts among key actors at all levels is coordinated and coordinated activities to achieve the goal of rapidly restoring and returning to normal conditions. For this reason, by the end of July, the Republic of Croatia has invested a total of 870 million kunas, of which 635 million kunas and 182 million extra budget users, respectively. As regards the activities of removing damaged objects that threaten people's safety, and today we are changing the State Inspectorate Act to further accelerate, so far 381 facilities have been removed from which 255 family houses, 37 business facilities, 26 residential businesses, 11 multi-population facilities, 3 sacral, 17 economic and 11 auxiliary facilities. 13 objects are in the process of removal, and so far, 24 million kunas have been spent. As regards activities in the reconstruction process, a total of 7432 requests have been received unstructured from which 3006 family homes have been deployed to the designers so far. Artists have so far been introduced into the work of 804 houses, of which 617 houses have been renovated, and 187 houses are under way. 39 companies have been employed, and thank God 11 of them are from an earthquake area. As regards the most demanding part and construction reconstruction, a total of 9258 requests for home renovation have been received, and so far it has been agreed to produce a project and documentation of type houses and a project documentation service for 288 houses, while for 1500 houses public procurement is under way. We must also point out that there are 737 apartments in the public procurement process for the production of the project documentation. It was necessary to react immediately for this reason the day after the earthquake, and I myself participated as Secretary of State in temporary accommodation and housing of people who had lost their roofs and until today we assigned 1707 individual temporary accommodation facilities where 4454 people were taken care of. In 14 container settlements 336 temporary units and 643 users were taken care of. While in 2043 mobile accommodation units are located 5097 persons. The 93 assigned state-owned apartment has 260 persons. These are all indicators that have been done so far regarding housing. As regards economic recovery, I will say in an individual debate and for economic measures that have been made to support the preservation of jobs where 18,554 workers and 4871 employers are currently involved, and for which more than 76 million kunas have been paid so far, as well as 400 million kunas have been allocated to repair the effects of the earthquake on local and regional self-government units. There is much that has been done, but there is much that is ahead of us, and therefore I believe that these amendments and additions of the law will also contribute to a very transparent and quality but also to a rapid and efficient renewal. For this reason, the HDZ Club will support the proposals of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64470	The next one will be spoke by a respected representative of Andro Krstulovic Oprah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64471	Dear Mr. Chairman and Vice-President of the Assembly, Mr. Horvat, Secretary of State Poljičak, dear colleagues and colleagues, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods is also today the topic of this debate. At least he's being talked about because he's the least double. He's needed and above all useful. The HDZ Club will vote for it and invite all of you to also give support to a law that will speed up and facilitate the procedure in the process of removing buildings that are individually protected cultural goods. There is a difference between cultural goods within the protection zone and individual, individual cultural goods or individual buildings. For information in the zone, the protected area of the City of Zagreb is about 19,900 individual buildings and protected individually about 300. And now that you see how much work is in front of the conservatives, it's quite clear that these reliefs are very important. At this site, I use the opportunity to thank many conservatives, restorers, architects and all who in the first days after the earthquake went out in earthquake-stricken areas and helped emergency services to remove certain dangerous buildings in order to access a serious, serious recovery. These amendments also enable the Minister in charge of cultural heritage to adopt conservation guidelines for each area in order to further and further facilitate and speed up the procedure that was on the Croatian Council for Cultural Goods until then, which had to be discussed individually on each removal. In order to avoid this, this burying of the Croatian Council for Cultural Goods is accessible to this change that is perfectly integrated into the entire system, a good setting up of the protection service. And in the end, I don't have too much time, I'll tell you the next one. It is unusually important that this law gives additional importance to the Croatian Restaurant Institute, which takes care of our cultural goods, both mobile and immovable, which, together with other professional services, takes on additional importance and gets their special role in this important business that needs to be done in the earthquake of affected areas above all Petrinja, Sisak, Glina, Kostajnica, the whole of Banovina or Zagreb and the surrounding area. The most important thing to do is to conclude that these, these amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural goods are made easier, hastens decision making, and thus restores cultural goods and areas which are, which can be admired by this valuable segment of our cultural heritage that we have to worry about at times like this. I thank you for your attention, and I urge everyone to vote once again and support these amendments and the additions to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64472	Thank you. On behalf of the Green-Left bloc's club, the respected representative Bencic and respected representative Bakic will now speak. First honorary representative Bencic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64473	I thank the chairman. So these two earthquakes and the one in Zagreb and the one in Banja changed the picture of the entire central Croatia, and it will be a very long time, as we can see. Of course, every citizen who lives here feels the best every day on his skin. However, these two earthquakes also took the facades off not only our buildings, but the facades from your country's governance model and from all our institutions that unfortunately proved unprepared and I must now say both incompetent for the quick and efficient response to the disasters that have hit us. It's a simple fact and no one can run from it anymore. I don't think anyone with any cheeks would say they were ready for that. Let's just remember the scene from Bania after the earthquake. Therefore, there is the fact that the activities of the food organisation and help clean up, accommodation, the purchase of containers in the first days were done either by civil society organisations or by self-organised citizens who came there to help, and basic services would not have happened if they had not then found ways to coordinate with each other when the state had failed in the first days. It's a simple fact, we were all there, we saw it, and we have to admit it. And for that reason, our Green-Left Block Club has also made a proposal to transform the model and system, the civil protection system. However, what followed these first shocks and the need for emergency accommodation is actually worse. In Zagreb, it has now been 19 months since the earthquake, 19 months. The fact is that the reconstruction is not happening, you can see it all who although you do not live in Zagreb as you pass the city center here until the assembly. And the guarantees that the government gave us when the first law was passed, and that guarantee was that the problems we warned about in the first law debate, which concerned the implementation problems, you gave the guarantee that these problems would be solved in walking, that there would be ways either through sublegal acts, whether through interinstitutional cooperation. That didn't happen. So this must be you all admit it didn't happen. So, unfortunately, all the problems that we warned about and that first iteration, but also in the second when we were actually giving the situation in Bani and in terms of a large number of institutions participating in the process and in terms of the complexity of the documentation that is put on the construction, on citizens, ineffectiveness of the procedures that have been prescribed, all of which, unfortunately, took place. And that's why we're here today to change, to change that law. In the first iteration as well as in this, now and with these amendments and additions, it remains with the same model, and this model is that the state through its institutions has taken over the management of the renovation and now the reconstruction and of public buildings as well as private facilities depend entirely on the ministry and their release of the recovery solution which is now, and also in these amendments and additions of the law, enabling it exclusively on the basis of individual and individual requirements. The minister himself acknowledged that these solutions are being issued too slowly and that they make it impossible to reach a more significant extent. However, on the other hand, and those reconstructions that are dear colleagues initiated by, for example, units of regional self-government and financed by the Solidarity Fund failed to obtain funds from the same fund despite the requests for compensation and orderly documentation submitted. I asked you here today in replicas, Minister, how much money has been spent from the 5.1 billion Solidarity Fund so far, how much we've spent, so we've paid off, I didn't get an answer. The question is whether anyone in this country, in this government, has an answer to how much we've spent so far. I think it would also be important for this House to be familiar with the spending plan for these funds, projections until the 6th month. The next year when that Fund closes down. And what we spent until then, we spent. So we would also like to know which positions the ministries are in. We didn't get an answer either, so really that money, like, everybody's talking about it, no one's seen it anywhere. I must say that, for example, at the level of the city of Zagreb, yesterday came the first payment from the Solidarity Fund, a small one from the Ministry of Culture. So 2 million out of 40 and some million, as much as the claims for compensation have been filed before. What's worse is that neither from the Renewal Fund, so the part that's being financed by their private renovations of apartments and houses, where many have gone to self-refunding or waited for some sort of recovery solution, so they've started to rebuild, that neither have they received any payments nor have people been waiting to pay for the same amount for months, some or longer, and they don't get it. All of this together, all of this together has affected the fact that people in Zagreb and Bania today have no more faith in restoration. This fact that finally, which is the good news of this Law that 80 percent of the state's construction reconstruction, 20% of the city, will not be seen by citizens as great news. So because they're aware that with a model like this, they're co-financed 150 percent, we give them another 50% on top of what costs, that they won't see that money. This is what they feel today because the year and a half went by in Zagreb. And people don't believe it anymore. What this bill does not adopt, and it should, is regulation that the reconstruction of buildings whose static is disrupted to the level of non-use or temporary non-usability, is to go into reconstruction by the very force of the Law. Ex-lege because we don't rebuild apartments, we're rebuilding the construction area of buildings so they don't disrupt public security, not for someone to have a better or worse apartment. The decision-making process of the Ministry shall continue to be laid down on each individual request. Why is that a problem? That's also because of the slowness, but that's also the problem that in certain areas that we need to rebuild, for example, to the lower city blocks, it makes it impossible for you to access the bloc's reconstruction. To make it impossible, what counterpart Mrak-Taritash was talking about, which is the revitalisation and revitalisation of these city blocks, for example. Yes, it is also still prescribed that this part is, therefore, the construction work of a regular administration. So, we're still gonna have these problems that we've been facing, we're gonna have to keep going, right? We'll still have potential conflicts of tenants. These conflicts are even more open by the possibility of destroying multiple buildings where we may have situations that those who bought apartments after the earthquake and now have more than 51% of the squares, want to tear down these buildings, to naturally build new ones where they will profit, and that other tenants actually want to rebuild the building. We'll have that kind of conflict, and we haven't regulated it here how to solve it. Public procurement, of course, opens up space for corruption with a model like this. Well, that is clear, if puts, if the thresholds are increased to this level, however, our proposal would be and I think my colleague Bakic will further explain that, that the European thresholds on the Solidarity Fund are really applied, to the money from the Solidarity Fund because it makes sense, because it is European money and ultimately, there is an additional degree of control over them. However, not on funding from the state budget and not on funds from the budget of units of local and regional self-government. So there should be a law on public procurement where we can possibly go to deadlines. So, what is important in the end will point out, and more Mr. Bakic will point out some details, and in the first and this iteration of the Law on the Reconstruction of the Units of Local Self-Government and Regional Self-Government have no control over either the speed or the method of rebuilding, there are only states. However, the same county and the City of Zagreb co-finance the same reconstruction with 20%. However, the state neither created a financial or institutional framework for them. So neither did you allow us, for example, to make public contributions and communal fees as intended revenue, to use, for example, both for renovation and reconstruction costs, nor were we allowed to borrow, and all these units of regional self-government and local government will have to be committed to finance the renovation, not to enter 20% of how much local self-government and regional maximum units can be owed in relation to the revenues they had in recent years. So we have a 20% debt cap from the revenue achieved in the year preceding the year in which it is due. So these are issues that have not been resolved, and these are issues that we expect to be adopted through the amendments, and the details will be, here's my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64474	The honourable representative Damir Bakic will continue, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64475	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, now on my part, continuing to present my colleague Bencic, in fact several concrete remarks and remarks, observations. First of all, I'm going to say what we welcome, which we estimate positive. This is, above all, the release of citizens in particating the costs of construction reconstruction, it has a double positive effect and both these effects are equally clear and important, not to be talked about further. This is further, a provision that allows for reconstruction and those objects that are not legalised and whose legalisation is not prevented. It's a relaxation of the provisions on the process of tearing down houses and buildings that have to collapse. It is also an explicit introduction into the programme of measures and.../incomprehensible/... introduction into the programme of criteria for selecting contractors and professional supervision, and the development of the content of the supervisory engineer's final report. And finally that's in the part where my colleague Bencic said raising the value of simple purchase, here's what we see that requires changes and I'm going to start immediately with the said article. 30. It is necessary for the Ministry to adopt an appropriate Regulation on the simple refurbishment-related supply urgently. In relation to this Article, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 41st is said to be adopted by the Minister in charge within 15 days. There is no reason that this rulebook is already not prepared, we suggest that 15 be replaced by 8. We also think that it is necessary for the programme of measures to be adopted with the previous consent of the City of Zagreb and the earthquake of affected counties, as it was written in the original law. And in that sense, the provision of an article. The 7th Law on Amendments and Supplements, which therefore erases the presence of the City of Zagreb and the County, in that sense the provision is harmful. We don't even agree with the article. 11, it is unclear why the provision of Art. The 16th century of the 4th century, under which co-owners could so far object to a complete construction reconstruction instead of only if they were willing to pay the price difference, and in this connection it would be good for the owners to make changes, perhaps even to build a building if they could obtain a building permit and a location permit. Consumers should be carefully worked out, special interaction with the Construction Act is required. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 33. states the right of the owner of an apartment in an object which is removed to receive an apartment of the This requires important precision because as it says, inexactly as it says, it can result in huge damage on both sides. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. Article 4 shall be intervened. The 5th basic law and now provides for the construction and construction of It is said in Article 9 that the conditions, arrangements and deadlines of building multi-state and business buildings will be prescribed by means of a programme of measures. That's unacceptable. I'll just remind you that in this fundamental law we have a whole chapter that talks about the construction of replacement family houses with 8 non-trivial articles. How is it possible that we are now leaving rules for the construction of multi-state and business buildings of the programme of measures? And finally what he doesn't have. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in There it is necessary to connect and belonging material from the demolition and bulky waste. We'll bet on that amendment. I'll finish by mentioning a question from my colleague, Bencic, which you've failed to answer. So the question is, where is the money from the Solidarity Fund for which neat documentation was submitted? I'll finish with one more question, and it says, can the municipal fee and the communal contribution collected by JLS be used for direct reconstruction costs? Please give me a clear and direct answer to this question. I hope the answer is positive, that it can be positive and, if so, please intervene in the law in an appropriate manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64476	Thank you. We are now moving on to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to the honourable representative Marija Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64477	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I'm glad to hear they're colleagues from the Can! They changed the original position where they supported the uplifting of public procurement thresholds. I can see that my colleague Bencic is looking at me astoundingly, that this is what my colleague Corlaet was saying in "Open", and you can also check that you have come to the point of keeping an eye on the anti-corruption mechanisms and that I cannot by regulations support and reflect such important legal changes. So, we have a little time, I'm really happy about it, and I hope that we can agree here with the opposition, but also that the ruling on this important topic will regain consciousness, so let them submit the amendment themselves, because we are here regardless of what you are from HDZ, and that we are all from some other political groups, we are here to protect the dignity of this assembly, so the fundamental question is that we do not allow ourselves, within the sublegal acts, to regulate the most important issues, so we, as a legislative body, to say this question to ourselves. If, indeed, in such an important matter, I will remind you that not only in Croatia but at EU level all reports show that corruption is the largest in the construction sector, we cannot allow this lifting of thresholds and the way in which the anti-corruption measures promised take place beyond the country's largest legislative body. So, I hope so, seeing as there are more members of the opposition here who agree on this issue that you might suggest some amendment to which we will prevent this. This is the first question to be highlighted, especially given that the measures we have in the existing law on public procurement as a mechanism that has been built within the EU for 10 years and upgraded, which has been confirmed here with more than 100 hands and which has brought as many as 3 governments over the years, in fact, the best anti-corruption mechanism we know. Therefore, we must not and must not cancel it, but I call upon everyone to maintain the dignity of this assembly and to be unique about the fact that nothing is so important to sublaws but exclusively within the law itself. Of course we want to help people, of course, if the problem is the deadlines that we want to make it easier, but then let's talk about which model would be appropriate. What's taking you too long, what do you want to cut short, do you want him to go through an emergency procedure? You have to give an analysis of where it's public procurement that she didn't say it, stopped the renovation, and what deadlines you want to sign now, put it in the law, so we'll see if we can agree, everything else isn't allowed. Second, the second question that has been crystallized refers to how to help people living in illegal buildings, therefore, or non-existent buildings, as treated by this law. So, of course, first we should know how many are like that again. Another thing, if we want to do something, we cannot work within this law to amend and bring to an unequal position all other citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and in the extreme line and undo the legal order of our country. So there are two options, if we want to help social cases, we can see if we're going to do it through some encouraging housing or if we want something built before 2011. Legalizes, where we need to see if any legalisation requests have ever been filed, but then maybe we can think about whether or not we're going to do a third round of legalization, but we can't say that we're going to ignore all these problems, that we're going to make it possible to start a reconstruction without determining who owns it. Can I wake up tomorrow and remember to file a renewal request for that beautiful apartment in the center of Zagreb in Ban Jelačić Square that was damaged? So who's going to determine property, why not? And in the end, the state should come and say something can or can't. Well, it's clear to all of us that we can't move into some procedure without knowing whose something is, so we can't tell because we haven't been able to rebuild in the past year or a half since the first earthquake that we're going to simply cancel out the badly built legal order of the Republic of Croatia to pretend that the reconstruction is going to happen and that we're doing something at all, and what's worst this isn't going to help us, it's not going to help people, it's going to create even greater chaos.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64478	Thank you. We have three replicas, the first respected representative of Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64479	Dear fellow Minister Selak Rasudiæ, it is evident that this special law that has been passed is actually a major failure because the fund is established, people are employed, funds have been raised, or at least it has been so compromised, but nothing has been done and one of the most important indicators of it is that somewhere around 12 or 13,000 requests are standing in the ministry and these are documents that are incomplete and so there has never been a game set up in such a way that it is clear to people that all documents need to be sent and now these documents will be transferred to the fund, so the problem will not be solved but simply transferred to the fund. And about this process of legal order, here's what's interesting is how every time there's such an extraordinary event as restoring it, we're doing inflation of these laws instead of staying with the existing legislative order and starting to solve problems. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64480	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64481	This is such a mess, I'm really embarrassed, even ashamed to say I'm ashamed because it's not a strong enough word to express this discomfort that I'm feeling right now. And even if it was up to the law, and we all know it was never up to the law, of course it wasn't a simple process, but these changes could have happened a long time ago. So they could have happened in the first month when you saw that things didn't work out, and everyone knew before that we had unresolved property relations, and if not then in practice you saw it in the first month. And we know why they didn't do it. They didn't do it so that someone wouldn't suffer political damage because he boasted that he would pass this brilliant Rehabilitation Act that then didn't survive the first practice test, so we let a year to cook it until people could literally live, they had nowhere to live, so that we would now suffer less political damage. Because in that whole calculation, it was the only thing that mattered, and that's why I'm not ashamed to convince people now that this is somebody's political battle again that this law is going to make it better.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64482	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed MP, Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64483	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear counterpart Selak Rasdic, there is one provision in this law where the simple government, or a resolute ministry, could show its good intentions. So, you and I both know that this third amendment, or the second amendment, will not be able to implement the law directly, but must have one rule that will be passed within 15 days and beyond, a programme of measures in which all these dilemmas will be implemented, so all that goes under the radar of the assembly. And now that the decree is in order. In 43rd of this law, it defined the ministry together with the Fund and the Central State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Management as a whole every 6 months to submit its report to the Assembly and to discuss it with another pair of sleeves. This Parliament has only the possibility to discuss amendments and amendments to the law, and all those consequences do not.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64484	Thank you. Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64485	Of course, I'm just as sorry as you know, I'm afraid even what the law says is that the report will come on the agenda so that it doesn't mean anything because it says that the report on the use of eu funds will come every 6 months, so we get 4 reports for a period of 2 years, a report on space not to mention it, etc. So, what I think can be, from these woods of problems, we won't see a key tree, but I think we can agree on some key processes to show that they're inadmissible when it comes to the role of the assembly and that we might be able to put some common emphasis on it, and maybe even colleagues from HDZ are conscious, especially about public procurement, to articulate at least two things that can't be allowed, so that maybe through amendments, they'll change. There is a minimum of respect for the role of HS, which makes laws, rather than laws, to adopt sublegal acts.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64486	Thank you. Honorable representative Nikola Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64487	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues, Selak Rasudiæ, so I think we all agree here together that these amendments and additions to the law go in the direction of faster, better quality, more transparent renewal. We all know that the time of one who has nothing lasts much longer than we who are here warm and every day counts. For this reason, we must be aware that we must and make certain changes and complements in other laws if we want something that is not normal, or which is a disaster or an elemental accident to be made, and here perhaps a little bit of your side is being confused by the concepts of ownership and illegality, that is, non-existent buildings. So non-existent buildings that will be legalized through the reconstruction by the state are not at all linked to the correlation with ownership. So nothing that someone hasn't lived in a moment is going to be renewed or anything that doesn't know property is going to be renewed, so these are two completely different things in the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64488	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64489	First of all, I have to say that what we disagree on fundamentally, and perhaps we agree until the end of the debate is that the processes will not be transparent but will be less transparent. Because if you don't have a public procurement that's the most powerful anti-corruption measure with all the shortcomings our system knows, then the processes will just be less transparent, not to say non-transparent. And as for what you said about buildings and ownership issues, these legal changes really make it possible to start rebuilding without establishing ownership. That's what the minister said the problems would get around, not solved, but bypassed. And it's a legal experiment and something that I don't think can be allowed because it raises any issue of any restoration solution at all, if you haven't previously established ownership, and in an unequal position all the other citizens of the Republic of Croatia who can't thus dispose of their facilities because they haven't been affected by an earthquake.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64490	Thank you. Now he will speak to a respected representative called Brumnic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64491	Dear Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Unlike that first debate on behalf of the club, this time I'm gonna go a little different. I'm ashamed. I am personally ashamed that in HS for the third time now we are talking about this law, that for the third time here we are more or less of the same thing, and that 50 thousand of our citizens are actually living in inadequate conditions. And that's the real problem. This is something else that this Law is trying to do, and I have to admit, by reading this Law, it looks to me like a big fog where the construction sector in the good part is going to take over space. In that first law, when we passed it, it didn't seem like it yet, but after these changes, I'm almost certain that in one good part of the space, investors will be the ones who will lead the game. It was not by chance there because Milan Bandić was still in power then, said that the City of Zagreb will create a program for the complete restoration of the historic urban unit through the Institute for Spatial Planning of the City of Zagreb and today it is known that this is not over, and at the same time, according to the Minister, the Institute for the Protection of Monuments, Culture and Nature of the City of Zagreb will bypass, the approvals will be given by the Ministry of Culture and will give them within 5 days. I ask you, when you get to the table, and in Zagreb you should get to the table of about 10, 15 thousand items in the historic urban part of the city of Zagreb, who will respond in 5 days? Probably no one. If he does not respond, he will be deemed to have given a positive opinion. To talk about transparency at a time when on yesterday's board this committee is neither transmitted nor recorded nor there's a transcript of that board so that we know who said what and what anyone suggested, that's ridiculous. If we in this.../incomprehensible/... building aren't able to be transparent with at least the words we put out, how can we expect those we chose, which are the Government, to be transparent? The government is transparently communicating 120 billion refurbishment costs, and out of those 120 billion, it currently spent, if I put together well, 64 million and agreed, as the minister says, on public buildings 250 million. 12,000 requests have been filed, and 50,000 applications have not been filed. Think about why these 50,000 requests haven't been filed. What was meant to be the goal of this Law, that people would get a roof over their heads, that is, to restore their property to a usable state, would not be achieved by this Law. I doubt today that's the point of this law at all. Believe me, today I doubt that's the purpose of this law. Because if someone had been targeted by this Law to return property owned by people, to those people in all the areas affected by the earthquake, then they would have been parallel to this Law, not to talk to the building inspection, but to discuss how these buildings and energy restorations, how to make these buildings accessible to disabled people, how to completely statically resuscitate and how to when it comes to the City of Zagreb, the whole blocks are arranged. The arrangement of the bloc certainly cannot be in the existing gauge as provided for by this Law. Who can normally think that every parking lot, every entrance, every yard after urban revitalization remains identical to what it was before that urban revitalization. So believe me, this law is not being passed because We would help those who are small. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64492	We have several replicas, the first respected Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64493	Here, colleague Brumnic, for the first time perhaps I am glad that people can't follow the debate so much that they don't hear all this shame. That they are promised a year after the Banovina earthquake that legal changes will do something, that they are even told that the law is guilty. So if someone cared and felt that the law had to be changed, then after a month, there could have been an emergency change and this could have been added, whatever it was about deadlines, about public procurement or something, if it slowed the process. But no one cared, all they cared about was political ratings. What it'll look like if we didn't pass a good law, and now we're changing something a month later. We thought about our image, not of the people in Banovina, and I'll agree with you on transparency, and I'm very sorry that no one could hear that committee session to see the minister talking to the MPs getting it, and you certainly heard it on coffee, etc., instead of answering questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64494	Dear Representative Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64495	My colleague, in my first debate, I said, if the law or restrictions that were set the problem, then they were probably also the problem in Germany because the same Germany acted in the same laws within 15 days. I can't believe our government is so much more incompetent than German, or I won't believe it, but it's obvious. And as for what the citizens got, the citizens got what HDZ promised them, which is fog.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64496	The next replica is the respected MP Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64497	Thank you, Vice President HS, dear colleague. Here's a specific question. So we who went up to Banovina and spent a few days, someone and something more with people, are aware of how much this Banovina is literally, what the people would say, the last hole in the play. And we are aware of how much war he has caused there, and I guess now this desolation will happen to the end, and the Croatian public is listening here from this honorable House, what individual MPs are saying, and my question to you is what your assessment is in view of the experience, given what we have been hearing for the last months and the last year, when the people of Banovina will say, look at this house and say, "Here, it's all been restored to me. When?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64498	Dear Representative Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64499	Dear colleague. The HDZ has long been guided by the theory that Banovina is irrelevant at all. We also saw this by how the response to this earthquake in Banovina was because the response to the earthquake in Banovina was not only to bring containers there but also to do the revitalization, which we did when the amendment of this Law was made, very often said, the revitalization of the whole concept of life in Banovina. There if you give someone a job, they can stay there. And if you don't get into the full revitalization of that space, primarily economic, believe me, building someone a 50-square house, and you're not going to rebuild the economic building where he kept the cow or something, that man in that space has no chance because he hasn't learned anything but to live in that way to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64500	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64501	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS, dear colleague. So time has passed, for the City of Zagreb it has been more than a year, or a year and a half and a little more, for the region of Banovina and Banovina, and it will be almost a year. We should have learned something from that. We should have gone through this one, if it's already decided, and we had to go into changes to the law, at least know some data, but what I expected the minister to say, my people, we in the Banovina area need to rebuild so many and so many houses, everything is reviewed, we know what it is, the construction operation of Croatia is able to do to the one who has 100 houses in a year, 200 houses, 300 houses, so we still need so many and so many years. And as for buildings of public purpose, so it should have been and they should have been used already, so we didn't need this Law or any other law, they could have already gone into renewal and it was a sin of inaction.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64502	Dear Representative Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64503	Dear colleagues. As for the renovation, she's got one, she's out of time, she's out of deadline, here's a hell of a jump to jump. This devil comes by himself in a way that people will move out of the area where they lived and I am not only talking about Banovina, but I am also talking about the city of Zagreb. These people who can't live in their homes today have to look for other solutions, and that's where the space-mixing people come in and sort of take up that space. It is extremely wrong for me that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, regardless of what is by the HDZ, has not shown enough sensitivity to understand what the goal is and what these governments are, and also us here in the Parliament, to help these people, this should have been the first and most basic task.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64504	The next replica is the esteemed representative of the Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64505	The Honorable Chairman. Here, a colleague said these are the 3rd amendments and additions to the law. I would say that these are the first amendments and the additions to the law are factual given that the changes and additions that we did in January were for two catastrophic earthquakes on December 28th and 29th in order to extend the delirious law, unfortunately to Sisak-Moslavina County and to all those parts affected by the disaster. But if it is a shame to amend and supplement the law, I will remind you that in 2014 your Government passed a law on the resolution of the consequences of the disaster in the area of Vukovar-Srijem County during the flood in Gunja on 18 June, and on 26 November it went to amendments and additions to that Law. That the public call for Gunya lasted two days, that you still suspended the article. 5 Laws on Gunja Public Procurement and that you charged 1900 euros square, although the court expert estimated at 920 euros, and septic caves cost 64 thousand kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64506	Thank you. Dear... We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of the Dark-Taritash, in which is the injured Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64507	Thank you, thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament. So, in 238, the distinguished representative Mazhar will have the opportunity, I will speak in an individual debate, so he will have the opportunity to tell you what he told you, tell me, but he can't speak falsely. He was head of the Central Office for Housing and every piece of information he talks to and talks to can check and can also check that from 24 July one year to 15 August of the second year has been torn down 280 houses built and all data checked. [[Thank you very much. Thank you very much, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64508	It's a replica, so you get a warning. Comrade Mazhar,.../incomprehensible/... you will get a warning if you abuse an institution. You insist on that? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64509	A colleague of the Dark-Taritash has been injured by an article. Rules of Procedure 238, since it correctly stated that I was the head of the Central State Office for Reconstruction and Housing, but did not state that she was the Minister of Construction and that the Agency for Real Estates was working on the reconstruction of Gunja, not the Central State Office which had nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64510	Okay. And it's a replica, completely irrelevant. You're getting a warning, I'm asking you nicely, let's not go any further, it doesn't make any sense. Are you insisting on colleagues of the Dark-Taritash? Here you go, then.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64511	Thank you very much. At one point a man should say a lot. I've heard a lot about Gunya in this assembly. It's about six settlements in Cvelferia. And dear fellow Mazhar, at the time I was a minister and was working on a renovation and I'm sorry for what you spent through the mud and for simple political reasons, but you came to the head of the Central Office which was equally involved in the reconstruction and which equipped all the buildings that were there so don't forget that and you can know that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64512	Of course, it's not even a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you didn't even call for an article. You're getting a second warning, I'm drawing attention that's a second warning. The reply to the replica of the respected representative Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64513	Dear fellow Hungarian, if you'd had the opportunity to listen to me debate several times on the Committee on Spatial Planning, if you'd listened to the debate in this House last time on amendments to the Law and this time, then you'd have heard a sentence of analysis of the implementation of the law. If this government had made an analysis of the implementation of this Law and came before this HS, the first time she saw that there were procedural problems, then I honestly believe that after 30 days we would adopt any change that would have been in the wake of the improvement of the situation. What you're doing is, I say again, embarrassing. So neither of us or you know on what grounds someone has come to the conclusion that this should be done. I've got two more seconds. You used to have a graphite in Zagreb, "You should know how to rule."
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64514	Your time is up, but it has the next replica of the respected representative Simunic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64515	Thank you, dear Vice President, dear colleague. Teacherly in art. 28 Laws, when regulating the construction of a replacement house in a new location on the property owned by the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorska, Zagreb, Sisak-Moslavina County and the duties of the owner of the removed house, donate the land on which the house was removed, I believe that the same area and market value of the donated and land on which the replacement family house was built should be taken into account. The question is, how is this going to work out? What mechanisms, procedures, regulations will allow for justice and equal conditions for all?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64516	Honorable representative called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64517	Dear colleagues, this is exactly what I was thinking when I talked about the construction sector taking over the spatial arrangement in the City of Zagreb, but also beyond. My colleague Škoro also mentioned it in his discussion. These are the instruments that those people who can't fight to live in the space they've been in will be moved to some other space. This is, the Law introduces a replacement building that the state will build somewhere else that they will get an apartment, and that the properties in which they were taken over by the state and later dispose of it or, perhaps not even taken over by the state, if there is someone left in those properties who does not want a replacement apartment, then he will remain the head of the management of this property.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64518	The next individual debate will be the respected MPs of Anka Mrak-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64519	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State. So there are 2nd amendments and additions to the Law when it comes to the earthquake that we no longer speak the whole name. I don't see any problem being changed and complemented here. The problem is, there's no renovation. The problem is that we are doing these changes and supplements because of the administrative part of this Law. Because the minister, after a year and a half of the earthquake in Zagreb, and 10 months since the earthquake in Banija, said my people, we can't do our jobs, we can't do the administrative part, we can't make decisions, but something the minister said, Mr. Vangelic said that they don't get enough material to work on further, and that's why we're doing the amendments and additions to the Law. We didn't even make it to the O.R., our colleagues and our colleagues. When you go to work, you go home to work, you arrange your apartment, or you build something, what do you do first? You see how much money you need, how much paper you need, which, what the market prices are, what they're about. At this point after a year and a half since the earthquake in Zagreb and after 10 months of the earthquake in Banja, we should have, or the minister should have a scenario in which the script can come and say, we have made type projects, we know that it will take so much, I will now refer to family homes because it is clear to everyone. In the area of Bania or Banovina will need to make 1000 family houses, we have a model A, model B, model C, on the market we have so many construction companies that are willing to work, they have so many workers and we, if we work according to model A, it will take 5 years, if it will work according to model B 3 years, and according to model C 10 years. We're going to do wooden houses, we're going to do built houses, we're going to do all this debate about what kind of houses we're going to be doing in the Bania/Banovina area, I have to remind you, whether or not there's going to be wooden houses, which is better, which is why it's a tool that needs to be at this point that the minister has to come here and say about it. I won't talk about buildings for public purposes, they've already had to go and it'll be a disgrace to this government, but it'll also be a shame to this country. At the moment when Prime Minister Plenkovic became prime minister, he is also my prime minister, no matter what I think of him. As I said, I don't need to be told by Prime Minister Plenkovic that I'm inoculating myself, so I'm going to vaccinate myself for my beliefs, too, so this country when it's disgraced and said that it hasn't withdrawn all, or that it hasn't used the funds it has in the account will be my shame. Both yours and whatever side of this assembly anyone sits on. So, when you come in, I have no problem at all that the law changes every 6 months if you know why it's changing, but I have a problem and I'm still going to continue on on that problem, so what's a hodogram to brag about, even brag about, imagine, you have teams that are on the ground to tell people how to apply. So were you in the area of Banya or Banovina? Well, there are people who are, I won't speak at all, who are freaked out, who don't even know what the request is anymore, and they don't care what the request is. Well, that's where people live, you turn them upside down, you can't shake 100 kunas out of their pockets because they don't have them. Well, that's not what I'm talking about the City of Zagreb, and that's how the ruling relationship was, the city of Zagreb will manage, the city of Zagreb has people, it will always be an interest to come to the city of Zagreb and it will manage. Those people there, they'll die there, and the young will go and start living somewhere else. Otherwise, in this last minute, I'm going to use it for another story. In this assembly sits brave boys who are extremely brave when they attack someone who isn't in the assembly at that moment, and when he's in the assembly, when he can look them in the eyes and answer them, then they look at their papers and turn their papers. Yeah, we had a flood on Cvelferia. Yeah, there were six settlements flooded. Yes, this Parliament passed the law, on May 17th there was a flood, on July 24th we started working there, 40 public-purpose buildings were restored until August 15th next year, we crashed, here I wrote, 487 buildings, family houses, restored 40 public-purpose buildings, made 288 new houses, no septic caves cost 70 thousand kuna. The price per house was 373 670,80 kuna per new house. The collapse cost 8 million and 200 grand in your handover. Sir. Custodian It was $586 million. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much. We have several replicas.]] The kuna is spent. [[Employer: The first is the respected representative of Miletic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64520	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64521	Thank you, Mr. Rainer. Dear colleagues, you know what's fallen on me now, this is how I'm going to ask you. So, we Rivers, our 17 bridges, the second day we came to Banovina, we were specifically in Nebojana. I, for the sake of my personal situation, was only asleep there for 9 days, and my boys stayed some 21, some 26 days, were taking annual people and we have different professions, so we helped people and then we came to Strasnik on the 6th day, the Scarecrow was terribly injured, there were defenders with Markusch, the Hos's, they helped the Bad Blue Boys and said, politicians pass, specifically, the prime minister passed, says in the car, I say they stopped, they welcomed people, they say, they don't stop these politicians, Marines, here and they don't say hello to people. In particular, in the Strasnik, I speak publicly, in the Strasnik. So I'm interested, please, in your expert assessment, you're an architect. When will Banovina be completed, when will people know it's over?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64522	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash. Please, let's not get off the bench. Come on, let's not get off the bench. ... Neither is she tossing you, nor are you to her, please. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] There are ways of expressing views here in parliament. Here you are, dear representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64523	Dear fellow Miletic, if I had that magic ball, I would have told you or let's say, there's another famous one... We could ask her when it'll be. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So let's understand what we're talking about. We say that since the earthquake in the city of Zagreb it has been a year and a half, that 10 months have passed since the earthquakes in the area of Bania and Banovina, and we remembered that our procedures are not good. To this problem who will build, how much it will cost, whether we have enough labour, whether there are enough workers, we have not yet come up with that problem. I've been talking to my colleagues a lot about the earthquake. I'm also talking to my colleagues, and I'm asking if you're in on it, she says. When we participate, we use the existing Construction Act because this Law is so inconclusive that we, therefore, refer our people to the Construction Act because it is faster, simpler and better. That's inadmissible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64524	Thank you. Dear Representative Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64525	Dear colleagues of the Dark-Taritash. As far as public procurement itself is concerned, it is a decades-long legal and economic gain of the European Union. Now my question is, as a MOST, we cannot accept that such complex rules as the Public Procurement Act are to be eliminated from the process itself, that is, the Law on Reconstruction and let's say one example of these legal changes, that the Regulation on easy procurement will be brought into line, says, quoting: "with anti-corruption protection measures", this is what the bill says. I honestly don't even exist, I don't even know what that means, it sounds like an ordinary flossula to me, because if it were that simple we would have eliminated corruption from public procurement a long time ago, and this seems to me to be actually eliminating the Public Procurement Act that we're introducing corruption into public procurement.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64526	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64527	Thank you, dear colleague Troscott. I'm not, I can be anything, you can love me, you can love me, you can think of me, but I'm not hypocritical, and I'll never be. So one is the subject of corruption and what we want to see, and another is the topic when you have an elemental accident or disaster or whatever it is you want to do. When that happened to us, so the flood that was, and I'd like the minister if it hadn't been for the earthquake, because his life would have been incomparably easier. We then asked the European Commission how we can conduct public procurement and then we got the answer that exists during the time, so when this happens to the country there is a different, so that there is what now in the law will be used, but not then define it through the Regulation, but define it clearly in the Law, that we know what all the elements are. When we're working, and I'll go back to... 22 people said they were going to work, 19 people got a job, everyone who answered got a job. [[the speaker doesn't understand]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64528	Thank you. The next replica, honourable MP Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64529	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues. So here's how late the renovations are, how much we keep taping something in place is the fact that, say, in the building in Zagreb where I'm renting amongst the first ones, it's starting to rebuild. The building, i.e. the owners, took up credit, completed works, accounts were issued. But what they are, what we have asked of the Ministry itself and the Fund and the answer has not been received is whether they will now be reimbursed from those 20% of the funds under this new law now that the state is funding everything, whether they will get and when they will get that 20% refund.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64530	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64531	Thank you very much. My colleague Nikolic. That's a question for the minister. So, I'm very often on the street people meet, I live in the part that got hurt in the earthquake. When I get out of my building, I see a house where they're still on the roof of the nylons, so that hasn't even moved yet, a large more residential building on which the nylons are on the roof. We've got different managers, so we've got those who are under the manager of the city-state-communal and charged for the collection of documents. You remember that story when the documentation that needs to be collected was kind of measured, and then the theme was that someone said it was 8 kilograms in one radio show was the minister, so he said so, so here you are, so what's the problem? So that's what we pointed out, but the problem goes on. So it's so many things that are unsaid, but you, when you're doing the law, need to know what the meaning and purpose of the law is.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64532	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64533	Thank you very much, dear colleague. I agree with a lot of things you said. I'll say something in an individual debate. In fact, in this Law, we have no clear, what you said, plans, which will and will, in order to tear down houses that must be torn down and what is the plan of rebuilding, which is the plan to resuscitate the slide and the drill that I asked the minister who is now not listening to. The fact that we're short on construction workers means we don't see it all together. The restoration according to some data, as far as I could see from the Central Office, will take 2-5 years. I mean, our people don't care if it's gonna be 2 or it's gonna be 5 years. So I came forward, not only to confirm what you said, but also to influence the minister, the resolute minister, to prepare for us all these plans of reconstruction, destruction, recovery, etc., and to see it here in the Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64534	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64535	Thank you very much. I'm going to do it again maybe once again and emphasize something I said, and that's that when you go into something, you have to have a hologram. You need to know exactly who's applying for, how long it's been, what it takes to be, how many people you have to have to solve that request, whether, as you handle it, then you get to the public procurement system and you go on and on and on and on. I, unfortunately, that first programme of measures that was on some 80 pages, I looked forward to it and watched those hodograms and you didn't get an adequate answer from it. But it's no problem if I get it or not. The thing is, in one of our prime ministers' lines, I told him that they're doing container work from Bania, and that's when he got really offended and said why I was saying it. Well, these people spent this summer in containers, they're gonna spend the winter, and they'd love to hear the answer for how long I've been like you, how long they're gonna be in it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64536	The Honorable Representative, Opačak-Bilić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64537	Thank you very much. My colleague, you mentioned that it's not a problem that we have amendments to the law, it's actually a problem that there's no renewal. The problem is the inconclusiveness and ineffectiveness of this Law. How bad is the time to wait for the renovation, except that people have been in containers too long and the question is when they're actually going to get out, you said they're spending the winter, the question is how much more winter they're going to spend that way. What I would like to add to your debate is actually another problem that stems from a delay in the implementation of the renovation is that if the renovation starts today, today, if it starts, it'll be more expensive by 50% than it would have been if it had started a year ago, because we know that the construction materials have been significantly collected, he's collected the work and it's necessary to think about it and actually whether and for this reason a smaller number of houses will be restored.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64538	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64539	Thank you very much. I don't think it's going to be any less renewed, it's going to be just a lot more expensive, but as much as it's really going to cost, it can't even know the Minister of Resort and nobody can answer that. The price of construction materials rises from day to day, the price of works, so you can run and call and say what is the amount and no one will answer you. If you listen carefully to what Mr. Vangelic said, he said, I go at these prices to public procurement and no one answers. Well, at those prices, it won't work. I just got a call from a friend of mine recently and she said, "Listen, I need a ceramic." You got somebody? I said, look, if you need an open brain or a heart operation, we'll see that someone's doing it somewhere, but don't ask me for a ceramic, and don't even ask how much it costs, that's our condition. We don't have, we're in a situation where we don't have construction workers, we don't have regular construction workers, we don't have builders, we don't have carpenters and army men.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64540	Thank you. Dear Representative Brumnic, give up. Dear representative Posavec-Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64541	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleague of the Dark Traritash. You will probably agree with me to rebuild the City of Zagreb and rebuild the rural space of Sisak-Moslavina County, i.e. Banija cannot possibly be classified in the same basket. The fact is that here in Zagreb, we should have the same plan-building, block-planning reconstruction that you have talked about a lot today and which, unfortunately, will be left behind, because from the debates we hear that people have already joined the reconstruction in all ways, but that the center of Zagreb is largely evicted, because it is not known what the fate of such apartments will be. But I'm going back to Bani or Banovina. There, slash, that's right, there people often live in inadequate conditions, there needs a plan to restore them to stay in that space, so tell me, couldn't we just take over those type houses that we built in Gunja and might already have built new streets and people set up in solid objects or we couldn't just because some other government did it?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64542	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64543	Thank you very much, I can. We could do anything and we couldn't do anything. So there is, I'm from this pay phone, if I don't say it three or four times, then I don't say it one time. There's a project called the new Bauhaus, there's a project that Mrs. Ursula von der Leyen was talking about, which is, therefore, about green politics and everything else, out there somewhere, in the 20s of the last century, started with that project, when the great problem that was at the level of Europe, that is, the world after World War I, the economic crisis and everything else. And she says, "We're going to run it, and we're going to have one, we're going to invite countries, one of them is 4-5 to be a pilot." To me, and I also told the Prime Minister, I find Banovine's space ideal for it, because then you from building material, or from bricks that you're destroying, you can work there, let's say new building material factories, I'm saying, these are construction materials factories and make an economic leap.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64544	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the motionary, the Honorable Minister Darko Horvat will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64545	Thank you, Vice President. And even in the opening part when I put out and read all the relevant figures that change from day to day, I didn't mean to take the word knowing that there would be a lot of unworthy sentences from this speaker, a lot of lies, a lot of debauchery, a lot of wrong data, a lot of wrong numbers, and I'm ashamed that someone who's a parliamentary representative is on camera, recorded incorrect information, and thus deceives the public. There's a big difference between 64 million and my number billion and 100. For those of you who may never have done anything like this and have no obligation and responsibility for spending budget money, for you it may be the same or the same, for me it is not. I listened carefully to two of the strongest voices today here in the Croatian Parliament. One claims, no, we won't solve property-laws, and the other claims don't make decisions until you solve property-laws. My conclusion is very simple. If you vote, and dare vote against such a proposal, you will vote for it uniquely only because you are an opposition. You have no other reason, for in all your thinking you are different. And well here has been apostrophe, two areas that are completely, completely different in approach to rebuilding and preparing reconstruction. Well, then it's kind of logical for me that two operating bodies still have a little different authority and authority to prepare, and tomorrow they're doing the renovation. If we have type projects, we do. If they can be the same as those in Gunya, they can't. You know why? Because the technical regulation has changed and the design input parameters are different. That's why we're doing new type projects and for the family facilities that we've made, and they've got a public tender in place, and now we're contracting and doing type projects of multiple residential buildings, but all according to the regulations, according to the technical regulations and all those changes and additions of the technical regulations that we've made, by suggesting the Faculty of Civil Engineering and other institutions relevant for one new era, for a new era of project documentation, where we have to take into account anti-quake security. And nothing after the earthquake in Zagreb and nothing after the earthquake in Petrinja is the same as it was in 91st, 97th or 2000th. I admire the courage, respected parliamentary MPs to call before the rule of conduct comes into force. Directors of Croatian hospitals, deans of Croatian universities, directors, directors and heads of their institutions who are bonds to implement public procurement systems, your words, the location of corruption. I admire you by calling and before a contract is signed, our craftsmen, micro, small and medium-sized companies, who will answer these calls and who will negotiate these transactions, call it the legume of corruption. And the good question here was, the MP asked, and it seems to me she just looked at you, if you were in Banovina. That's a good question. So, some of you that I've met and seen, honor and sincere thanks for every form of help, but some who, after eight months of earthquakes in Banovina, came to Banovina for the first time, I think they should also be a little ashamed to talk about Banovina behind this pay phone. So here was a very interesting one exposure. Therefore, this presentation was written by the head of the institution who defined the operational body of implementation of the process of reconstruction and precisely declared, from word to word, the speech of a parliamentary representative defined or formed as our last correspondence and discussion on our professional bodies in the Ministry of Construction. But with one big mistake, so there's been a lot of lies, because all the processes are being obtained publicly. [[/Intruder Željko Reiner: Thank you, there will be opportunities to respond in replicas. The next replica is a replica of a respected representative, Minister, your time is up, Minister...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64546	Dear Representative Željko Pavić, please. Stay here, you have a series of replicas. Now you can speak, answer every line. Dear Representative Željko Pavić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64547	Dear Minister. One part of the public procurement process has been completed, craftsmen have taken over their jobs, i.e. they probably took over contracts. Did they start working, hard, I don't think they started. One part of them, what happens to the deals that were arranged, and in the meantime, there's a big price hike? How will your craftsmen end up going? As you will now conduct new tenders, since you said yourself, you have technical specifications, with the technical specification you must go and some cost assessment, because there must be a price to which someone appears at the tender, and in the meantime there has been a major price increase again. Who's gonna take care of that? So now we need to repeat this whole process again, how long this process will take. What should we tell our fellow citizens, when will it be their turn? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64548	Honorable Minister, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64549	Here's a very simple one and I thank you for being put out like this, I'd say the premise, in fact perhaps you've already given even one part of the answer to your question. So the Law on Mandatory Relations and counterpart Ćoric reached a conclusion on the government a few weeks ago in which it was clearly defined. Therefore, the Law on Mandatory Relations says, within 10% of the price is unchanged, every percentage change in price will be verified and it will be possible to install it in the price itself. As for Croatian craftsmen, small, medium-sized, I am certain at one point and large companies that will be involved in the reconstruction process in the construction segment, so why we are actually moving one segment of the rules of conduct into the sublaw. It's precisely because every three months these adjustments shouldn't be discussed here in the Parliament. Increase in price of construction material, increase in energy prices, increase in cost of life [[/Intruder Željko Reiner: Thank you. Time's up. Dear Representative Selak-Raspudic has replicas. Minister, Minister, let's stick to the line.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64550	Let's stick to the line. Dear representative Selak-Raspudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64551	Minister Horvat. Your first announcements were such that you planned without any control to make the purchase, you were expelled and... in your first announcements, fortunately from time to time you reacted publicly, so you were forced to return it. [[the speaker doesn't understand]] You've probably been getting my warnings ever since. As for Banovina, I was in Banovina, unlike many, refusing to paint there, because I was disgusted with politicizing over other people's tragedy and on it, God forbid, profiting. I don't know what rules of conduct you're talking about, it's probably a Freudian slip, you're thinking about probably a rule you're supposed to prescribe, as far as public procurement is concerned. I urge you once again to return the deadlines you want and the Public Procurement Act to this Act and to allow the Parliament to regulate the restoration, not some sublegal act. And as for who he wrote to, I'm always writing and speaking to myself, and it's been clear to everyone in this House for a long time. But you may be used to someone else, not just writing, but saying what you can and can't say [[/Intruder Željko Reiner: Thank you. Dear Minister Horvat.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64552	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Minister Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64553	Dear Parliamentarians. Neither did you have the opportunity to see the rules of new behavior, nor did you have the opportunity to react to them. From the first day, from the first moment we started to debate, and the debate was the City of Zagreb, the Central State Office, the Fund and the Ministry, we agreed that we had to adopt the philosophy of European thresholds of public procurement and from the first moment there were colleagues with us who ran the Department of Public Procurement at the Ministry of Economy. So, rhetoric that you've suggested something to me, that I'm following what you're exhibiting in public space, is not only ridiculous, but also embarrassing. And we're going to make and install into it all those anti-corruption mechanisms that today and the Law have, but we're going to prescribe the rule of conduct in the Law itself, so you don't even have that in the existing Public Procurement Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64554	Thank you very much. We have a respected representative, Selak-Raspadić, who has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure, are you still standing there? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64555	Article 238, it is a shame, dear ministers, that you are ashamed to follow what parliamentary representatives who have been authorized by the people to represent him and to point to problems. And as for the rules, yes, public procurement is attributed to the law and you can't just throw it out if you have nothing to hide the law so that we can all agree on deadlines together, and don't leave it for hidden sublaws, which we, as a Parliament, cannot regulate the most important legislative body in the country.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64556	Okay, well, of course that was an abuse of the institution's injury to the Rules of Procedure, the third warning based on Article 240(2), I give you a reminder by taking away the words until the end of the debate on this subject. The next replica is the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64557	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. The most important change to this Law in my view is the fact that construction reconstruction is carried out independently on land, catastrus and ownership. Therefore, it is suspended when entering the construction reconstruction, at all, the situation in the land book, which is in a certain way one precedent that has not happened before, but is justified. Because through this law we see the building, we see people who need to react at this point. Was it supposed to go before or not, well that now we've established that we need to get into this, in this kind of renovation. What I would just like to suggest to you as a resorient minister is that before, perhaps a month ago in the Croatian Parliament, we adopted a multi-annual programme of geodetic measurements, making a new Earth Book, because this kind of thing could happen to us in any other major construction procedure, so here I invite you to have the Government go with the Annual Programme as soon as possible, so that we can really start in Croatia a systematic production of a new cadastre and a new Earth book.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64558	Thank you. Your Honor, Minister Horvat. The Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64560	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor. I'm always a little inclined to lower my tones and talk within the frameworks of what's real. I, I mean, what happened to you isn't easy, it's not easy to happen to an earthquake and deal with all of you and I have to be honest and say it. But I'm interested in one other thing. So, both you and I and everyone who's being watched in general and see that we have a problem with the right workforce, it's gone. She's somewhere else. Our high-ranking workers, high-ranking carpenters, high-ranking armymen, good-looking people work somewhere else. So, one serious, complete recovery, which, whether it's regulated by the state or done by the people themselves, you have a labour problem. How much do you think it's going to take at this point, when the renovation takes place, I'm really hoping that it's going to start, somehow I believe in it, but when the renovation starts, how much will it take for you to have extra labor and from where?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64561	Thank you. Your Honor, Minister Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64562	I have to admit, and I agree with you that this is already one different dimension of our debate today. But when you condition that all public procurement procedures must be transparently published in the advertisement, and when you are working on everything that is visible today in the public procurement advertiser, so I am sure somewhere in the 2nd or 3rd month, in the link the automation is also visible in the electronic advertiser of the public procurement of the European Union, then this is your answer to my question. So at this point in time when we call the competitions, we have a response to these competitions, the response is relatively high quality. I repeat again, the large economic operators you know almost everything about, I hope that they will be included in that segment in which the segment will not be engaged in some other investment cycle financed by the National Recovery and Resistance Programme of 50 billion kuna [[Intruder: Željko Reiner: Thank you, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64563	Thank you very much. The replica of the respected representative Barbaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64564	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Minister. It should therefore be noted that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has provided initial funds for reconstruction and has offered a legislative framework as soon as possible. The ambience in which this Law was passed, if you remember, on the first committee we had no precise data on the number of damaged objects, which was delivered by the City of Zagreb, which was delivered by this number, so the Law was adopted that we may not have then been aware of the complexity of property-legal relations, above all in urban areas, such as the City of Zagreb. The offered framework and these 7, 8 key areas seek to eliminate those places that are brakes faster, more fully, more fully process of reconstruction. So, I'm asking you, by transferring to the State Inspectorate, by making a solution to remove objects and the process of removal, whether the procedures will be respected as well, it is now problematicd in a few discussions, as well as in normal elaborates. [[Intruder Željko Reiner: Thank you, dear minister, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64565	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64566	So, it's a very clear question that you're making and I'm going to repeat what we've entered into the Law, and in the Law on Reconstruction, but what we've defined by amending and supplementing the State Inspectorate Act. So, all that is necessary to remove and threaten the health and safety of citizens, protect lives, we will not have to enter into the process of obtaining the consent of all tenants, but the building inspection will be able to remove such an object by means of a solution not because it is someone's wish, but because it is necessary. Those objects that do not have such a threat enter the regulatory procedure and the law is very clear to such objects or such projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64567	Dear Representative Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64568	Dear Minister, you really need to have three clean ones so come out for this pay phone like you went out and correct what's written on your ministry's pages. The pages of your ministry make it clear: “Approving a return of 64 million 355 thousand 378.62 kuna. ” And it's the only money that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have received in this reconstruction. These other money you're talking about is about public facilities, it's about what your colleague Bencic asked you if they were paid and who they were paid for, and I'm not going to get into it. Here's the question of what and how the citizens who died in the earthquake get from this country. That's what's key and the only question. When I passed the law I said public facilities and they don't belong to this law, the state has to rebuild them anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64569	Your Honor, Minister Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64570	Well, here's because the rule is simply such that a parliamentary representative can insult the minister, but the minister can't, because it's also going to be out of the question what kind of noise or halabuca. But believe me, I'll give you my word. I'll show you past the cameras and past the pay phones. So what you read is only one public call, only one public invitation to what happened only in Zagreb. 2183 requests, 1831 solutions and 64 million paid money only in the form of one call. If I were to give you segments now, then the number is a billion and a hundred million.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64571	A colleague of Brumnic's injuries to the Rules of Procedure. What was hurt in the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64572	Article 238 has been injured by insulting the logic of anyone sitting in this Chamber, so that the minister does not come before the Croatian Parliament to provide information on the basis of which to amend the law and then asks representatives in the Croatian Parliament to believe in his word. We had a board yesterday on which it was absolutely logical for someone to present the data they had. None of this information the minister is talking about has been presented. This 65-million-dollar data was presented.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64573	Thank you very much. Of course it's nothing, my colleague Brumnic, sit down. It was not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and it would be an insult to logic if it were a violation of the Rules of Procedure, it seems to me that it would mostly be an empty room and would give warnings. According to that, please, let's not abuse the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure knowingly. Of course you're getting a warning about that. The Honorable Representative, Opačak-Bilić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64574	... [[You can't hear the phone.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64575	My colleague Brumnic, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64576	We know that a good part of several residential buildings began the reconstruction process, and a large part of them actually completed the construction reconstruction by counting on the distribution of funds in terms of 60 - 20 - 20 and actually went to the use of funds from the reserve. I would like you to answer me in which amount they will be co-financed to rebuild, given that we have a situation that a large number of works have been completed and completed before this amendment and supplementation and whether they will now receive a 20% refund in view of the new proposal for full allocations. So by what model will they now be treated in the distribution of funds?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64577	Your Honor, Minister Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64578	So 60 - 20 - 20, 80 - 20, and 100% is not a model where someone gets their money back. This is the model of the source of funding from which the technical and financial control will be paid. So, when someone and I would love to see that such engagements are much more refurbished and require a return for either the main project or the project for construction, and even a partial project for full renewal of technical and financial control is controlled or will be controlled by such requirements, which is an acceptable cost and the acceptable cost will be returned in exactly the same or the same way to those who entered the construction reconstruction will be the basis of the money refund application returned after the fund makes technical and financial control of the project documentation and the establishment that was spent on construction reconstruction and which was spent on something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64579	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64580	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, given the lack of labour, the change and increase in the price of materials and everything you need to rebuild the house, if you have projections of how much the price of the renovation, or the construction of a new house, how many wooden, traditional, how much concrete there will be, means in some proportions whether we have any plan at all. I've come across different data, different prices. Mr. Hanzek from the central office says that the construction of squares of the new replacement house will be 750 euros plus VAT, so then I bit off on how much the prices of wooden houses have great advantages. I'm going to do something in an individual, so three to six and a half thousand kuna. So what you're planning are the ratios, what are the plans and what you're going to offer to our damaged ones, what advantages you're going to offer for the wooden ones, which are for the concrete houses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64581	Your Honor, Minister Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64582	So these amounts and these figures, so maximum amounts are defined by the programme of measures. If we need to correct it or change it, we're ready to do it. And it will be much easier to change it by the government's decision than through the parliamentary procedure that this programme of measures is incorporated into the law as it suggests here with countless other or different things. The fact that we are monitoring price developments on the market and that in public interest we have received from 970 to, from 1,070 euros, the price of type installation facilities, including the foundation and equipment, is a fact and we cannot escape from it. So these are the offers that we will analyse, some of them we will accept and then, after recording the possibilities, primarily Croatian entrepreneurs in meeting the need for construction, according to our assessment about 4200 new family houses, we will make decisions where and with what facilities. What's the fact, in preparation for this restoration...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64583	Thank you, thank you. Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64584	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Here, we heard that colleagues in the opposition really care about our citizens and say when the state takes over 20% of their possible stakes in restoring itself, instead of them, they say we're against it and we'll vote against it and that's theirs, we wear this as a burden on our backs, so we should respect them, let them say, but they always find out why something shouldn't be. But someone brought Gunya into this story, so let's compare a little bit. When we say it was great and everything was right. So 1 100 facilities since 2014 completed around 90% 2018. I don't know if it's over yet, there were 50 other objects that weren't completed because there were questions of these problems that we have today in this Law. Unsolved property, residence issue, etc., etc. And now compare what we have in this year and a half and a half months and 10 months, whether we have a result that fits Gunja or still, given the new rules, national funds there in Gunja, and here the European Union funds and many procedures that are different from what we had there. Let's do it so people can see what's going on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64585	Your Honor, Minister Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64586	So look, you haven't heard from me or I'm going to compare the project Gunja with the project, which is construction, which is the whole reconstruction of Zagreb and 4 counties, these are incomparable things. Therefore, the rules of conduct are completely different, but it was very interesting that no one who had been radically against the introduction of a simplified principle of public procurement had ever replicated those who had defended the derrogation of such a public procurement process in the Gunja process. That's very interesting. It only gives me the right to see that here on the scene is a beautiful play, carved, I don't want to be part of it, I'm giving you concrete figures, which you can see all of you who haven't read, in an unorthodox part of the law, so all of you, who read the articles, read the explanation, read the inadmissible introductory part of the Law in which you have the exact figures, figures, which are different from day to day, because the renewal is happening on the ground. And everyone who doesn't believe that...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64587	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64588	Thank you very much, Your Honor. First of all, I believe that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, of all of us, no matter what side of the speakers we have been standing on, we spend our time on concrete things, about their actual daily problems, so I think it is good to share with the public information that so far through the Central State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Management with the designers and professional supervision agreed 90 contracts for a total of 4 840 houses, while with the contractors through 2 public calls was concluded in one 56, in another 27 contracts for a total of 2 190 family houses with contractors. Therefore, all those who today wanted to say that nothing was done, very simply check the official data, and they can sit in the car and be there in 45 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64589	Your Honor, Minister Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64590	Yes, your numbers are correct. If we hadn't kept an eye on property-legal relations, if we hadn't kept an eye on existing or non-existent buildings, if we hadn't stuck to the conditions of the place of residence and had had a simpler public procurement this figure would have happened three or four months ago, and today these processes would have been in numbers far greater.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64591	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64592	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Minister, you were talking about the obstacles that occurred in this process of reconstruction, and that's why ultimately the law is changing. All those who were in the Banovina area saw how many of the objects they were threatening, in fact, other people, threatening security, threatening neighboring facilities, where owners live in some other countries, no matter what they were contacted, they disobeyed, did not do the part where they were bound by their ownership rights, because the rights followed and obligations. And I am now interested, specifically in the example, so, when we adopt this Law, will they also be able to react to such objects, and in what time will they be able to be removed from space, regardless of which the owners are not available, do they not want to react or do we not know them?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64593	Your Honor, Minister Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64594	So it is no secret that, in the creation of this Law, we have also had a profession from the Faculty of Law, which at this point is relevant to the interpretation of the constitutional category of ownership and all of the problems that arise from it. So we are clearly told to what extent this right, the institution of ownership, cannot be touched in which segment of the right cannot be touched. So, when we have a public threat to health and life, then property can either be derivated or bypassed. So all those objects that are going to have to be removed because they are a threat, because their destruction could question both lives and human health without obtaining consent from the owner.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64595	Dear Representative Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64596	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor. Several opposition representatives today and yesterday on the Committee, as well as in public, are trying to push through the claim that this bill is not in line with European public procurement provisions. I know that you've repeated it several times here, but there's no other way but to tell you the same thing infinitely, since the other side constantly imposes its thesis. I agree that this bill is in line with everything that the European Union has brought through its public procurement provisions, and it is also in line with our Public Procurement Act. The fact is that we have a situation in which we have to behave differently than we do on regular occasions, that this bill is not passed before, nor would we now have amendments to the law. So here I kind of gave you a chance with your replica to explain that thesis one more time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64597	Your Honor, Minister Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64598	Thank you very much. But instead of me explaining the same thing to you for the seventh time, I'm going to call from this pay phone to the words spoken right from this pay phone, the president, I'm going to dare say still, the strongest opposition party, Mr. Peja Grbin, who gave us the right and fully supported this concept. I call again, whether with coffee or any other or different manner of opposition to sit at the same table, try to find a consensus and let him dare raise his hand against such a proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64599	Thank you very much, Minister. We will now continue with an individual debate, respected representative Ivana Posavec-Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64600	Thank you, Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Ministers, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I don't think anyone in Croatia even counts how many days have passed since all these earthquakes that have hit us, how many days since the earthquake in Zagreb, but how many days since the devastating earthquakes last year in the Sisak-Moslavina County area, with the epicenter in the mentioned Strašnik, which have been the most damaged area of Sisak, Petrinja, Gline, or the area of the price of Banovina. The residents of this area are no longer likely to have high expectations for all of us, because they still feel that they have not received adequate support in the form of regulatory laws, or acts that could turn this disaster into what they once had, which should be called normal life. Unfortunately, the majority of the people of Bania still live in inadequate conditions today. Unfortunately, the main population of the center, the inhabitants of Zagreb, has been evicted from the centre of Zagreb, not because it is somehow a practice in highly developed countries that the city center or the city's most remote emigration and conversion into business zones, but because there has not yet been a full, relatively fast restoration of the space in which people would live. And as I said today in the replica of the minister himself, we have two essential features at the moment, unfortunately it is still a uncertainty and unfortunately it is still a lack of coordination however we want to look and show it. The uncertainty is getting bigger because, the time has begun in the autumn, fogs, cold and moisture, and the people of Banija continue to yearn for adequate spaces, for heated spaces, for spaces that will have all the sanitary knots. Some of them were also left unprepared for meals that they were used to during the period behind us. And then we get into a situation where there's a law in front of us that I'm going to say brings some good things, and unfortunately I'm not going to say it to the Minister because he's not here. And then he'll say again that we haven't read, or he'll say we weren't in the field. So it is not our job here in the Croatian Parliament to boast about how much and when we were on the ground, the residents who found us on that ground know best. But believe me, we know very well what the situation is, and so I'm going to say that it's good to free citizens of co-financing obligations, the cost of construction reconstruction, that it's good to introduce housing and more residential buildings, that it's good and that pre-financing is being introduced in the payment of financial assistance, so I'm also going to say that it's good to simplify the decision-making process. I will even say that it is good that this Law regulates a more efficient and faster way of removing destroyed family homes and other destroyed buildings whose remains directly threaten the safety or health of people, but I will also ask a number of other questions. Everyone who's been in Petrinja in the last few weeks, you're wondering if they're really monuments to culture, those remains we see in the squares? Whether they will help rebuild and whether in this form we will perform them or perhaps we should bring it down to the end, those arches that have remained on their own and start rebuilding from the beginning. This Law also provides for the adoption of a regulation which will contain specific procurement rules, but this Law does not address the issue of what is important to people, which is the restoration of agricultural and commercial buildings. The question of people who have a existence in the area of Bania has not been resolved. These people are more important to rebuild their economic facilities for their family farms because that's their bread, that's their life. If we don't do this together, they'll leave this area, which is responsibility, colleagues and colleagues, all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64601	We have one replica of the respected representative Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64602	Dear MPs, it is my opinion and position that we simply must, we have an obligation to preserve our historical and cultural heritage. And the fact is that we have to keep those monuments that were in Petrinja, we have to keep the ones that were in Petrinja. But the question is, you didn't get this debate to end, and the question is, does it make sense to keep them as they are, in the form they are, or is it smarter to do it over and to have what we need to have for a longer period in front of us? If we just rebuild this, we patch up again, we'll have problems with these monuments, and we have to leave something to our children. And I think it's smarter to rebuild it in a different way, a better way because it's later on in the longer term available to everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64603	Dear representative Posavec-Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64604	Thank you, dear Vice President. Comrade Pavic, you've noticed well that I said there is no coordination here. When I say that there is no coordination then I think that the programme of reconstruction and revitalisation of the area of Banija, and then the National Renewal Programme of the Republic of Croatia is not in line. So we put in there some projects that we will withdraw European funds that are already in realisation, which are not at all about Bania space, but are about the space of Sisak-Moslavina County and we have not addressed these issues at all. Everyone keeps saying there's enough money, there's plenty of options. The question is, what is the future of that space? Were we ready to use the cultural and traditional heritage of that end to build on it the future of that space and these people, that they do not go and that we build there what the young will remain. I'm afraid we haven't, because we haven't talked enough, we haven't been inclusive, we haven't heard the terrain.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64605	Thank you very much. The following will be spoken by respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64606	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Your Honor. Quite a difficult subject for such simple spoken words. Given the text ahead of us, given the situation we have and some of our desire to contribute to people who are damaged by the earthquake. Two earthquakes, meaning 18 months ago Zagreb, 10 months ago Banovina. And then the outpouring of emotion who he was, who he wasn't, and then mixed up with a lot of lies that we need to fix all day so that it doesn't stay in the public's focus. And then someone put Gunya in this debate. And I agree that we have to have a starting point so we can compare to something. We have passed in this country really several times reconstruction and postwar reconstruction of over 150,000 objects and reconstructions that we had in Gunja, meaning one accident, the flood of 1100 objects and here where we have 49648 objects. It's some starting position. The postwar reconstruction lasted 15 and more years and is still going on. Gunja up to about 90% of the completion that can normalize life, people return even though not everyone back there, there somewhere in mid- 2018 there are still 50 items out there that have not been solved, on which the shows and in the press have something to read, etc. What are the problems? The same ones we're dealing with right now through this law. So the issue of ownership, the question of abandoned objects, we don't know who the owners are, they don't answer. The issue of residences, fake residences, etc. So even here, it means four years after only 1100 objects worth 850 million kuna. And then we come to this most demanding problem of 49,000 objects. And when we say what this government is doing, one former minister says you haven't moved a brick. So that's what we're fighting with. So you haven't moved a brick in a year and six months without any blinking. Is that true? The country's first task was to normalise life in the city of Zagreb after an earthquake in Banovina. So to enable basic functions of traffic, lighting, water supply network, all that is, to take care of the citizens that they have where to be. Did we do it? I think we are. Offer options. Are they offered? The citizens want to stay there? They do. And it'll take a while. And those who said it should be solved in a year can only put such a criterion out of their heads. We see it says, 1100 says Mrs. 200 we crashed and 200 made in a year and a half. So let's compare it to the data the Department of Construction has, so you'll see what numbers are there. What's the problem here, and how do I see it? The problem is they're forcing us to make the means to make it quick, to make the most of what we've been given. But it doesn't work like Gunya. There you had national funds, suspended gentlemen from the Most Public Procurement Act, suspended. You're talking here, you can't rule something out. Suspended! And we negotiate how performers appeared. Well, then we have that post-festum story. Here, these are European funds just like any fund. Procedure, app, absolutely all right. Why? So we don't get that reaction that we had after the earthquake in Banovina who built those houses that they were so bad or that they fell, and they weren't supposed to fall. And now it's a different procedure and a different and more serious thing. And we need to understand that. Those who want citizens to pay 20% as they say they will be against this law at their will. We will try to enable through these changes to take over the states because we have seen that we must and do so. It's the public's concern, not this. I think it's your fault or you didn't do anything or you didn't move the brick. So that's the difference between the responsible government and the government and the opposition. And it is up to us to insist, to defend this, to vote and to allow for the better flow of all functions and all processes to happen as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64607	Time. We have two replicas. The first is representative Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64608	Thank you, dear Vice President. Comrade Boric, here you have said yourself the earthquakes that happened last year and early this year in parts of the Republic of Croatia are definitely where we can all agree are a major natural disaster. When we add this pandemic to covid-19, then I think it's hard actually to imagine a country that's found itself in such a difficult situation. I think that we can all agree that the government has actually reacted without a doubt, it proposed a basic bill in this house that it actually adopted almost unanimously. And I think as a lawyer, I can say this situation complex. Legally regulated, arranged in such a short time is really not easy. But today we've been listening here all day from part of the opposition that the problem is that we're changing that law now, so that's something that's showing up as something bad. So now I'm wondering what the problem is? So what is the problem is to further regulate, correct the said law, or allow this renewal to go as soon as possible. Here's the part I really don't understand, so if you can explain your opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64609	Well, the problem is, fellow Habib, that they don't want me as a government, i.e. as a state itself takes over those 20% which, according to the current proposal, are still the obligation of the owner. They say we're against it. Well then, the problem is that we are introducing housing and more residential buildings, which regulates the issue of rebuilding buildings that are not existing according to special laws, i.e. are not drawn anywhere, i.e. They're illegal. Because we have a problem. We can see they exist, and they're gone. There are, and you can see it in these years. Maybe we couldn't at that point predict that it would all happen. Well, that was an obvious problem somewhere else, but that wasn't the way it was at the time. We simplify the decision-making process to move faster. They say we're against, let it stay what it is. We have funding, i.e. Prefinancing of payments i.e. cash aid for construction reconstruction. Why is that their problem? Well, because building them looks pretty simple. Pretty simple. And we think who's dealing with this, it's not exactly a simple process.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64610	The next replica is Honored Representative Miro Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64611	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Boric, in your debate, you have made a comparison of post-war reconstruction, comparison with Gunja, and now with what we have. And it's good to compare it. However, the opposition today has been challenging all along, saying you are not doing well. When the earthquake occurred, both the first and the second, and especially the others, they forced us to discuss here and how well the restoration was done after the war. We've been discussing it almost the same all day, and in the end, we've come to the conclusion that maybe it's a couple of houses that were made wrong, and everything else was actually made quality and good and survived even that earthquake there as strong as it was. Now I have a feeling that the opposition doesn't have that desire to do something useful and good, but it just keeps asking something that's been making us all day and you're not good at it, you're not good at it. And in the end, they just make this new club and then they get to talk even more. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64612	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64613	Thank you very much, Vice President. Some opposition, let them speak but we wanted to make some initial position so we knew where we were. Because this is what it all looks like. I said there's a process of building an object that you've never built it looks simple. Today, on pure property with the will to have financial resources set out to build a facility. I'm going to ask you how long that's been working out for you. How much does that cost? That's it. How long does it take? We've got something down here that needs to be fixed twice as much work as anyone knows what the building is. And now we are discussing this, the state in normalisation of life in the area of Banovina and the city of Zagreb 817 million kuna so far. Another 180 in this next month. Of that most in Sisak-Moslavina County 150 million kuna just to keep our lives normalized, that it works both education and health care and everything it takes for people to live there. And where everything that goes through the process itself is still a responsibility that has its course and that certainly has done what it could most at this moment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64614	Next is the individual debate of the respected representative Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64615	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs, representatives of the ministry. Surely when we talk about a subject like this that touches at least 50,000 families, and perhaps more who have suffered in an earthquake whose dwellings, family houses have been destroyed, whose business and economic facilities are off-site, then this topic should be approached with one great care and responsibility not only because of those who have been injured but also because of all those who at that most difficult moment have shown their great heart and provided them with help, so even those donors who have stolen from their mouths, grandparents who have gone to the post instead of bread, and I know that case by name and by name, and paid that donation. So, the subject is extremely difficult, and I would like to remind you that when we passed this law today that we changed it to a large majority of votes, so it's bad when we point our finger at each other and outwitted who's more guilty, and who less because that law didn't give a quick and effective answer to the questions that plague and the people of the rest of our neighborhoods who died in the earthquake. We can say that we have this responsibility together, but that we have worked the law in the best way, not having this experience that has been shown in the implementation, and in the implementation of the law on the ground every day, we have opened up a new and new problem over and over again. And if I tell you that even with this law today that changes things significantly, we should step up the reconstruction process again, we won't solve all the problems. Some might say I'm smoking cold, but the fact is that we can never one law predict all those life situations that happen. This bill introduces a certain newspaper, and I believe it took so long for the reason it was listed for consultation with legal professionals. Because in this law, we go around some of the problems that have proved to be key in the field, which is that there are many illegal objects, that many property-legal relations are not solved and that the owners or owners are not available. But also that the complicated and long-term public procurement procedures that were to be carried out take valuable time. I am concerned about how many of our fellow citizens and this winter will be welcomed in containers, in really difficult and impossible conditions. That's why we need this urgent turn, and I'm sorry that some people are slowing it down, because I don't think they're slowing down because they're worried that it's not legally justified because the legal experts said that they are, but that some other reasons are in the background, and I don't think it's good, that it's not such motives and arguments to use on these issues. I was also saying something about the problem I'm seeing, because I think this law kind of discriminates against farmers. I understand the answer given to me that through rural development measures will go into the reconstruction of their economic facilities, but I repeat, and I have said it many times, that I then ask the competent ministries to ensure pre-financing. Because someone who's lost everything in the earthquake doesn't have their own financial resources to invest in the reconstruction and then wait for a hundred percent return from the Rural Development Fund that provides 120 million kuna. What I'd like to say here may have been the conclusion, because it hasn't been mentioned so far. I'd like to thank everyone again who helped. I would especially like to thank the Croatian Caritas who invested 12 million kunas in the purchase of residential modules, the Sisak diocese who invested 9 million kunas in the issue of vouchers, bought construction material, white technique, provided financial assistance, secured the installation houses, participated in the construction of houses. On that contribution and on that proximity they showed to people who were in need. Let us follow these examples and each of us do our best to help those who have lost their home.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64616	A new replica of Stipan Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64617	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear fellow Petyr, this whole earthquake tragedy in Banovina can be shared in three stages in some way. The first is the phase that occurred right after the earthquake when indeed the vast majority of Croatia's people joined, helped in the best, fastest possible way they could. I think that the Croatian people really showed one patriot, one great heart. There followed a phase of temporary care of accommodations, where individuals and working organisations and local self-government and states of course also passed the exam and have shown themselves in some way in their quick and efficient action, in the care of these people temporarily. The third stage, meaning final or long-term reconstruction and quality renewal, is normally now on the largest part of the country, but it also normally lasts the longest. If we want quality renovation normal that it can't go fast I'd like to hear your opinion since you've been through all these three stages you've been directed at all of this. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Your opinion of all this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64618	Thank you, Comrade Shashin. It is my duty here to say that both you and your municipality have shown this solidarity. Together we were in the Majur municipality where you gave a donation, where together we visited farmers who had suffered who were in need and who were witnesses do not want to leave their end. I personally called for dozens of them, because by means of really good people who offered accommodation at sea, hotelers, hosts we wanted to temporarily put them somewhere until there were conditions for their home to be restored in some way or to find some replacement facilities. But they didn't want to leave their hearths. So the story is extremely complex and I really believe that everyone here has been doing what they can by respecting the legal frameworks that have been given. This legal framework has proved to slow us down in a quick and efficient recovery, and I think that's why it's important. to approach the changes. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64619	The next replica is the respected representative Ankica Zmajic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64620	Thank you. counterpart Petir, you are from Sisak-Moslavina County from the county, which was at the end of last year, meaning a devastating earthquake and where facilities and economic and public and residential were destroyed and damaged. I think you're in very frequent contact with the leaders of local (regional) self-government and with the citizens of your county. So how do you assess the current implementation of activities related to the recovery of earthquake-damaged buildings and how do you think these amendments and additions of this law might improve that? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64621	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64622	Thank you very much, Comrade Dragon. Yes, I'm in touch with both the mayors and the mayors and the men in the field. The headquarters headed by the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Medved, has frequent communication with them, and they seek those urgent problems that appear in practice to solve truly on a daily basis. However, despite the goodwill of some problems, it was not possible to resolve the legal framework as it is. For this reason, changes are needed. I contacted them about this law where they pleaded to see that it was a big step and a step forward. They expect that there will be an acceleration, but they also ask to be involved in all processes because they know their own terrain best and we know that it's a predominantly rural environment where people don't have fast Internet, they don't have infrastructure, they don't have enough information. And without municipalities and cities, it's gonna be hard to work. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64623	The next replica of Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64624	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues Petir, this law applies to owners and co-owners of damaged and destroyed multiple residential buildings, residential, business buildings and family houses but not to agricultural and economic buildings owned by the OPGs. I support you and I really think that if it isn't already this law, by some other law, regulation, it should allow all of them by regulation, like this pre-financing you've been talking about. Also construction reconstruction for all of those objects that are so-called non-existent, or illegal. And only in Sisak-Moslavina County is over 90%.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64625	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64626	Thank you, representative Juričev-Martinchev, for this support, I really appreciate it because I believe that farmers are also people who have business facilities like other businessmen. They produce food for us, store rural space and are irreplaceable. None of us can take that role of theirs. That's why I think we should treat them in a fair and proper way. And they stayed there as the last of the Mojicans. So, they didn't want to leave, they stayed with their cattle, they stayed on their hearth anyway, and in that sense I would really like this appeal to be heard and appreciated that we and this money that we have secured for the restoration of agricultural land and objects would not be used. Because they don't have initial assets that they could invest on their own, and they're not creditworthy, and we know banks don't share charity. So in this sense, I expect state intervention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64627	Next individual debate, respected MP Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64628	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, we've had our chance to hear things here behind this pay phone today, first of all, from the Minister of Resort, because colleagues and colleagues didn't believe but yes, I'm not a construction profession. I don't even come from an earthquake area, but I read it. And the one who tells me that everything is in line with the profession, that everything is in line with the recommendations, that everything is on time, if I don't consider reading I know, I think he really thinks I'm a fool. And not just me colleagues and colleagues, but all of us who have pointed out certain problems, which because of this law and this law come out. Because the fact is, and I am now inviting you to tell me whether you believe in your eyes or trust the Minister that there is no renewal. I have to admit I'm not often in Sisak, I'm not often in Banja, but I'm in Zagreb often. And in Zagreb, the first earthquake was six months earlier, and there is no restoration. So we've waited a long time to clean up the ruins, keep quiet and so forth, let alone some restoration. People went into reconstruction, people had to resuscitate some things from the destruction of the teeth, chimneys, resuscitation of some walls, etc. without being clear how I would say the plan whether it would be entitled to some refund, which will be refunded by the state, how it will be placed especially in the old buildings that are protected by the Law on the Conservation of Cultural Heritage. So I can talk about the level of legal uncertainty for days, but I would like to focus my debate on some important details of the law that we first gave support to, i.e. Not the first reading, but the first voting, which apparently did not get any results. The aim of this law is to speed up the process. Now, I'm a layman again, but you tell me how the procedure is accelerated if we've prescribed two more rules. One will be delivered after 15 days, the other after 60 days. Will it speed up the process? Well, he won't. Well, people have been waiting for a year and a half, and now we're prolonging it for some rule that will be passed after 60 days. The law also provides for further complaints that can be lodged with the State Commission for Public Procurement. Will that speed up the process? Well, he won't. So, if it is the law's urgency to speed up the procedure already on these first two examples we have fallen, then Article 41, within 15 days of the adoption of the law, should adopt a Regulation on procurement and a new programme of measures within 60 days of the adoption of the law. We're not voting this Friday, are we going to be next, I don't know, but since next Friday, let's say if it's plus 60 days, how much does it speed up the process? The other thing is turning on the waist. I also talked about it during the first debate on the law in the Croatian Parliament, and I'm afraid a lot of things haven't changed. In fact, some amendments have been voted, that is, partially adopted or otherwise adopted. The waist is nominally involved. Professional advice includes the Chamber of Architects and builders, etc. However, there was one meeting of the chamber. After that, they were gone, and no one asked them any more. The Chamber of Architects itself wrote to the Prime Minister and asked that they be involved and said, so in Article 11. Point 3. The programme of measures shall be decided by the Government on a proposal from the Ministry and with the preliminary opinion of the city of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorska, Sisak-Moslavina and Karlovac County. And what does it cost us to add expert advice from the Chamber of Architects and Construction Engineers? Well, I guess those are people who have something to say. We had a historic opportunity to remodel Zagreb by some new oscillations, we didn't include it at all, we didn't think about it, and not only did we not remodel it, we didn't even start rebuilding it. Well, that's embarrassing. And if someone thinks that for a year and a half after the earthquake in Zagreb, they can stand by and say that we defended the citizens, so they must be wrong. Because we haven't had an "o" since the renovation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64629	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and fellow citizens who follow us through the screen. This is where Gunja was mentioned. So it was actually the one who put Gunya in the debate. Even the minister here pointed his finger at the MOST club first and foremost whether we were on the ground in Gunja. We don't talk about it, but when it comes to us, that we were and you can check out the village of Nebojan, we all slept in a firehouse and we helped our people when the minister was already pointing his finger at us. As far as the law itself is concerned, what is really important is that whenever an extraordinary event happens in Croatia, we make new laws and in fact we produce inflation of these laws because of the fact that these extraordinary events are being bypassed by an already existing legal framework that could, for example, have led to this kind of renewal. And then there goes the law that's supposed to solve problems, and nothing is actually done. And there were our sales, so our family silver like the state-owned companies INA, they were different conversions and privatisations of Agrokor, pre-fashion settlements and now this Rehabilitation Act. As far as this law itself is concerned, so it's a special law based on the results where we see that there's actually nothing I can do to say freely according to processed requirements, by broken houses, by renovated objects. So what I see is that the fund was founded, people are employed, they're talking about some kind of means that are allocated. However, some more serious actions have been taken besides the fact that a lot of requests have been received at the Ministry of Construction which did not prescribe clear rules of play, so all documents are too necessary to go into the procedure as soon as possible. And now what they're going to do by ruling, is they're going to transfer that whole set of documents to the fund. Politically wise or not wise, but on the other hand, our citizens will suffer because we will continue to have a fight on the relationship between the Minister of Construction and the Fund. No problems will be solved, demands will not be resolved, and this law is like, it's like it's going to solve our citizens' problems. What is a big problem is that this behavior is actually the minister and also the ruling team that is involved, so in the reconstruction of both the city of Zagreb and the Krapina-Zagorje County and Sisak-Moslavska County is that we are now in a situation where the very expensive material is, when inflation that analysts predict will last for another year and a half to maybe two years related to construction materials. And the topic that no one has actually opened today, and it is about the reconstruction of the city of Zagreb and in general these areas, is that this law, that is, this problem that has happened, will show us a completely real demographic picture of Croatia. Because you have situations and we are not yet aware of the price we pay for demographic problems. Because while the minister and prime minister are playing with legal and legal experiments as defined by their secretary of state, therefore trained masters are leaving Europe, and as soon as you have a shortage of people, so in this sector the price of that work is growing. And we'll pay for that inflation. Yes, the law is a pure legalization of corruption because it introduces a process that completely eliminates the public procurement we have taken over from the European legal and economic gain. I don't know what's not clear? Because over the decades, the EU has developed certain mechanisms and every 10 years these specific mechanisms are revised to re-enter. And I guess we're smarter than the EU. That we, as a club of MOST, do not want to take on additional legal compean's and reputation risks, because in this shameful and legal corruption experiment called the Law on Rehabilitation of Version two legalizes corruption with crazy proposals in which the regulation of public procurement rules to the value of works up to 39 million kuna is left to the sublegal act, i.e. the regulation. As Parliament's representative, I don't want the Minister of Construction to make decisions on public procurement up to $39 million, and then he calls me responsible as Parliament's representative, you voted that law. It won't work. What we see now is that this law won't solve much, and unfortunately I don't have time to make all the points.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64630	Dear Representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64631	Dear Mr. Sanader, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament and Honored Yeah, I'm sorry. [[Employment: Injury of the Rules of Procedure first?]] [[Let's get this over with.]] Dear colleague Troscott, I'm interested in your attitude. [[Mr. Miletić, you are the only one to finish. You've got the word.]] So this is how we have 1,800 renewal requests, to date 3.7% of them have been made. You came from a financial sector, a complex system. For example, if he had a percentage of 3.7% of his business's success, the supervisor would treat the person below. And secondly, can we explain to the Croatian public plastically. So why does someone have a problem with the EU public procurement directive? Why is that a problem? So we have the EU in which we are, from whose experience we are learning and now we have this directive, but we would rather do something our own way. Is it a little bit of a blur, darkening or I don't know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64632	Dear colleague Miletic, thank you for asking. So, as far as the private and real sector is concerned, if the superior, or such high-function manager, had such a small score of only 3% of the resolved demands, he would be fired next week. It's very simple. So it wouldn't have happened if no one had been very responsible for such a small number solved, so the demands that our people are sending and that absolutely nothing is happening to them. As far as corruption is concerned, so what's an interesting fact, this is mentioned to you in the bill's proposal, not that it's now in the bill of law saying that the rules on simple procurement will bring and that's the answer to your question, bring in accordance with anti-corruption protection measures. What does that mean? That the only anti-corruption protection is obviously our minister of construction. It's in translation when you interpret it. And why, if we could just eliminate corruption so easily, we would have done it already, but this is just bypassing that law and introducing corruption into public procurement.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64633	Time. Thank you. You're free. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64634	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Troskot injured Rules of Procedure 238 insults the intelligence of our parliamentary representatives, but also the general public, and he also lies from this Croatian Parliament pay phone saying that this law introduces corruption. The law as a law has just been written in accordance with the EU Public Procurement Directive. And all that is done is in accordance with the EU Public Procurement Directive.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64635	If that were the case, you'd look me in the eye.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64636	You have a warning, because this was a pure replica of yours. Next is an individual debate by the distinguished representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64637	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The fact is, the reconstruction is late, and it's almost gone. Even the Secretary of State in the Central Office for Reconstruction and Housing Mr. Gordan Hanžek says that by mid-spring next year, the first family houses will be moved in and people will be in containers. When will the reconstruction end, he says the housing fund for two to five years, and reconstructions within a year. It also shows that there are 2195 containers in Banija. Of the 7400 applications, houses have been reviewed 2 and a half thousand houses and it is considered necessary to restore about 5500 houses. With regard to all these containers, there is a question of what will happen to them after all the houses are renovated or built, whether it will go into stock, whether these used containers will be sold, I have not come across that information. It's about donations. Foreign donors, for example, from Belgrade, from Austria are rebuilding houses in Banja. The plan, for example, is from Belgrade, to announce that by 31.12. this year, it will rebuild and build 34 houses in Glina permanent and editing, and you can see in the media of Austrian Dora Eberla in Petrinja and the surrounding area it built with its volunteers from more than 60 houses and by winter more than 70 houses. She's still 1996. She began to build a 1300 assembly house in the area of Petrinja and Banja Luka, which remained intact in the earthquake. The wooden houses she's building are usually ready in four to five days. These houses are not complicated, there are no red tape and turrets with them, they are cost-effective, and they are practically immediately inhabitable. However, the problem is that the new house is, for example, only a few meters from the former home, which is today a pile of bricks, boards, remains, debris, etc. And then people just want you, of course grateful that this wooden house was being used, they just want their old house destroyed as soon as possible, which is threatening to fall and damage the new house. And then you have examples of the residents' statements a month ago they told us that they were going to tear down our old house in a few days, but so far we haven't even gotten a draft, let alone that someone came. Now I ask if the facilities that the donors have will have the advantage of destroying the old facilities, or approval of the documentation, will have the advantage of resuscitating the drills and slides that are near those houses. Will those who receive donated houses, i.e. objects, have the right to any funding, such as protection from the atmosphere. Do we have any idea how many more donors are going to rebuild their homes in the Republic of Croatia? With regard to wood construction, experts agree that this is actually one of the better solutions for all these hard hit areas that are actually sensitive to ground tremors, because only wood has high seismic resistance, it is ecological material, renewable, sustainable, etc. The only shortage is a slightly higher price, although the minister has now said that these offers don't bounce so much from those plans we've heard of classical concrete, masonry construction. It also cites wood's submission to decay under the influence of atmosphere, but the profession says that we today have both wood science and technology and experts that will allow these wooden houses to be adequately and adequately protected. Experts also say that the restoration of traditional houses is desirable for a number of reasons, and then here we hope that the restoration will take care of this traditional architecture, or traditional houses as much as possible. This proposal provides otherwise for the financing of atmospheric protection in Article 35. It is not yet known how much these amounts are and when the government's decision will be made. As I said before, Mr. Hanzek is actually quoted as saying that objects of traditional urban architecture will be built. The only thing you still don't know is the ratio of these objects, which is the difference in the price of wood or concrete, which will suggest to the victims, how these people will choose which house they choose. And something else about those drills and slides I mentioned in the replica. Minister Medved said all of those 130 and some of the gardeners will be rehabilitated by winter. But what winter do we wonder? Because so far they've restored very little, the price is high. This process of restoration takes even 30 working days. It is that there are thematic maps, but, of course, on these maps, there is a need to avoid places of high subjection on the gardens, so I guess even the builders around these maps will actually be guided when they rebuild, building new houses.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64638	We have a replica of a respected representative, Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64639	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Maric, you spoke of the advantages of wooden construction. Indeed, in Sisak-Moslavina County, there is this long tradition of building wooden houses, and immediately after the earthquake, I met in the field and representatives of the wooden cluster who testified to me, because they were still more professional than we are here, that when they visited the field, they saw that these wooden houses, if we could say so, were doing better, and they had no damages like that with some other objects. In this sense, there is no wonder that these initiatives and donations that are coming are going in that direction, so Caritas Sisak diocese with international associations is currently building 100 wooden houses for families in Banovina. 61 was built, but there'll be 100. What bothers me is that there are 9808 abandoned houses, buildings and buildings in Sisak-Moslavina County. That's a huge number. And I don't know if you have the information maybe for your county. Sure it's more represented in rural areas, but what do you do with these facilities? [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64640	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64641	Thank you very much. I was very interested in this wooden construction and wooden houses and should really give priority to building such wooden assembly facilities. First they set up very quickly, as I said in four to five days. The price bounces a little bit from these concrete ones, but if you ask the man who died in Bania for whom he would have been a variant, he would have given anything in the world just to move into a home that has really many of these advantages that I mentioned to you here, I didn't make it up myself, and I'm not an expert on this matter. But here's a lot of literature I've studied. In my county, you know that one of the most densely populated counties is, so I don't think the abandoned facilities have much. There may be a house here and there. And as far as Bania is concerned, it's a problem that's hard to answer in eight seconds now, but it's a series of demographic measures, of these as soon as possible to speed up the restoration of something that will actually keep people or possibly bring them to these areas. Here's too short time. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64642	Next is the individual debated representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64643	Dear chairman, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. Today we heard a lot of debates, a lot of criticism of this law, that is, amendments and additions to the law. I will look back on what we did last time at this debate, and I must say that the debate on the current version of the law made sense and that some suggestions were nevertheless implemented in practice. I will remind myself of my discussions in which I mentioned connecting more information services in the CDU, or at the Centre of United Services. As we heard from the minister it was spent a few weeks later and we were actually able to achieve that our fellow citizens who apply should no longer carry all the documents with them, but, with the request, in fact, the automatics are supplied with some documents. The second suggestion I made in my debate was to form mobile teams, or mobile office teams in which our citizens would be able to submit their demands. It is a model designed and first used by the mayor of Krapina-Zagorian County, Mr. Kolar. And I'm glad that practice and that model were successfully applied to Bania. That's what the minister himself said, and I think it's really one big plus. The problems identified for the use of services, IT services are primarily incomplete data and insufficient data, and I believe that they responded immediately to the owners of these data, i.e. databases, or registers, to supplement this with what is missing so that documents could be supplied as high as possible in the next phase. Since the completion of the documentation is spent a lot of time and it is necessary to complete a large number of articles in a short period of time, and that our citizens do not have information at which stage their request, i.e. the resolution of their request or their case, is another proposal, which is that I propose that the process of work on the requirements of the reception be fully informed and digitised, i.e. that the documents are digitised and that the processes are fully informed and that citizens are actually allowed to see the current state of their case. This is going to be a major shift, because we're going to reduce citizens' anxiety after all, they're going to be well informed. That the time that's running the big problem is generated and that it actually generates new costs in that time I'm going to show you on one example. Unfortunately, there is no minister or minister, and this is an example that is related to an object in Banja. This object is actually a traditional historical building. It is that the first query was sent immediately after the earthquake. We know the earthquake was 29. The answer from the Ministry of Culture and Media came in May 27th 2021, and the reconstruction has not yet begun. And what's the problem? The problem is that the assessment was actually made. Now the only work on the roof is going to be done. It tried in the meantime, and we tried to help ourselves and friends to do everything to do it, to put up the ticks. However, all these works must be taken over by the ministry and started working now. In the meantime, it rained a lot, and in the meantime, there was a lot of bad weather. And now I'm asking, unfortunately, the minister is gone but I'm asking him who will and when he's going to re-evaluate the damage that occurred in the house because of the rain and the wind that damaged that facility. The second question I actually raised with my replica is the issue of price hikes. In fact, the minister answered me what I actually said in one part of my reply, or its replica, which is that by law everything that is up to 10% will be ignored, i.e. that it will be paid to craftsmen, performers and more than 10% will increase the price. Guys, that's what we've actually transferred 10% of the renovations to our economies. Is that okay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64644	Next is an individual debate, Honored Representative Pero Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64645	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the promoters, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. After two earthquakes that occurred in the Republic of Croatia in a short time, approximately 50% of the facilities in this earthquake were examined. The review found that 10 thousand facilities were temporarily used or needed, unusable or necessary emergency interventions and about 5000 were completely unusable. The total damage is about 17 billion euros or 128 billion kuna, which is almost an annual amount of the state budget. The fact that out of a total of 12 thousand applications submitted by citizens related to tens of thousands of buildings, the ministry has resolved slightly less than a thousand demands. Three key problems have arisen in the realization. It is an property-legal relationship and a question of the legality of the building, and a question of residence. It is therefore evident that we must rapidly amend the existing legislative framework in order to speed up the procedures for the renewal of the amendments and additions to the laws that are ahead of us will create assumptions for speeding up the reconstruction process, especially where the biggest problems have arisen. One of the key changes is the financing of a constructive reconstruction in which citizens will not have to participate but will provide state and regional self-government units, i.e. the City of Zagreb. The stronger emphasis will be on self-refunding, and the possibility of pre-financing will be introduced. I also find the proposed solution, which abolishs the ban on own property, regardless of the renewal procedure. This means that citizens will not be given a time period in which their real estate should not be sold. The earthquakes have already changed trends in the real estate market, and they will certainly continue to change. The Zagreb earthquake did not lead to an expected fall in transactions and real estate prices in Zagreb, but it happened exactly the opposite. The daily number of transactions and the sale price of apartments increased. Amendments and additions to the Law also open the possibility of building residential and more residential buildings, which will allow for the revitalisation and urbanisation of earthquakes affected areas. This is certainly an opportunity to invest with the idea of the future of the space we live in. Zagreb is not the first city to be restored after the earthquake, especially not the first city to pass urban reconstruction. Some knowledge and exist and based on it we can plan future processes and changes with respect of course cultural, historical and other values. We can create a new value and hope that Zagreb will rise stronger, stronger than it was, and other areas affected by the earthquake will be socially and economically revitalised. Here I recently had the opportunity to attend the opening of a regional fair that included a three-day conference on construction culture, a sustainable development called Archibau. The conference brought together experts from urbanists, architects, builders, art historians and all those other professions related to this topic. And I believe that everything that was seen there will be heard to contribute to a better consideration of the future of space in the Republic, especially in this time of restoration by the earthquake of affected areas. I expect that by building an earthquake of safe buildings, we will protect citizens from similar disasters in the future, but I also stress the importance of finding the right balance of rebuilding buildings and the vision of space. We know that, apart from the earthquake housing facilities, churches, museums, theatres and other cultural institutions have been significantly injured, as well as numerous kindergartens, schools, colleges, institutes and hospitals. So, apart from the construction reconstruction, we have to have a vision of a whole space, including the planning of a public space. I hope and here I would like to point out that our goal should not only be to return to the original state only with the anti-quake strengthening of the facilities, so I would also like to consider my replica which I have sent to the Minister today to enable the construction reconstruction of the existing facility, together with the reconstruction of the facility for which the owners themselves will produce all the necessary documentation, result in a building permit, and in such cases all the main projects and costs must certainly be separated from the specific costs of the construction reconstruction, and from the costs of the reconstruction, i.e. the construction and construction of these facilities. Here's what this law would make sure I was improved and sustainable in the long term.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64646	We have a few replicas. She's the first respected representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64647	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. An esteemed colleague of the new bill makes a series of newspapers that will certainly contribute to a faster, better quality, more efficient renewal that you yourself said in your debate. Citizens will be free from co-financing and participation in reconstruction, replacement buildings will be built, pre-financing of reconstruction costs, action by illegal objects will be carried out, the removal of buildings that threaten the security of citizens will be simplified. And what is causing the most disdain today is to speed up public procurement, a higher public procurement threshold whose regulation will be drawn up in accordance with anti-corruption measures to, of course, shorten the appeal procedures and facilitate the administration. So here, please, you've been working for years in the economy to explain to us what this other administration and the long procedures of appeals can do, facilitate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64648	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64649	I thank my colleagues for asking. Well, here's what the problems with our public procurement are really enormously long appeals processes and all that requires. Here it is not derivated as in some disasters and the Public Procurement Act is already increasing this so-called. small purchases, i.e. for services and which were 200 000 and for works for 500 000 on really one such substantial amount, especially those other for works where this threshold is estimated to be in line with European directives, are 39 million kuna and this is indeed one big threshold for our terms and conditions, and this leads to doubts. Because public procurement didn't have to go to a public advertiser and online publications were already able to work over three calls. But I think the minister has already repeated several times that this public procurement will certainly go in such a way as to go into an electronic advert and probably also to the Ministry's website. So it won't be done on the principle of how small procurement is done by now as a rule. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64650	Followed by a replica of the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64651	Thank you. Dear colleague Cosic, under some normal circumstances in a state where we are not witnesses, I don't know about the affair, various kinds of public procurement scams, perhaps we could agree to raise the public procurement threshold. But we know that there is currently a party in power that is convicted of corrupt activity. You yourself witnessed in the Fimi-media affair. So how do you believe that raising this threshold of public procurement will not be used for corruption, it is the lobby of corruption. And besides, you've been a year and here's a month and there's more that the law has been passed, you brought it together, we can do the SDP. Nothing has been done in the city of Zagreb or in Banovina. People still said I didn't have any sanitary knots in the containers. Not that they didn't get solid objects but 3000 are still waiting for them on the containers, so the situation is on the ground chaotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64652	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64653	I thank you for the matter of my colleague, Grmoy. What I said to my colleague Ljubic, however, is an enormous rise in these thresholds, but it is an EU regulation. We can cut them down. Those who are and are proposed are also accepted with the agreement that it can be raised in the Public Procurement Act. But perhaps it is incomprehensible to us, because we have small wages and everything else in relation to the European Union and the world so that this threshold is higher. But it would be safe if he went up there, that threshold would come to faster public procurement, but certainly it's done transparently. Not a call, not three calls, anything else should be a transparent public procurement advert but perhaps without all the prior consultations and all that precedes the great public procurement. And of course the results are published in the competition. And as far as he knows, here he'll be able to complain about it through public procurement because she doesn't derrogate, she just raised that threshold.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64654	Followed by a replica of respected MPs Ankica Zmajic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64655	Thank you. A colleague of Ćosić, you spoke and the laws set out the financing of construction reconstruction of buildings, and individual building owners want to implement the reconstruction at the same time, i.e. to upgrade or upgrade the existing collapsed or damaged building by their own means. So do you feel that such demands could be realized in what way?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64656	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64657	Thank you, colleagues. I was talking about this this morning to the minister, where it could be connected, means at the same time reconstruction and construction reconstruction by precisely separating what is the construction reconstruction on that facility and the project documentation, for example, to create construction reconstruction, the design reconstruction project for the existing facility and to determine the value according to all the rules as further determined. But if a man has already issued a reconstruction permit, we don't need to do one thing twice now, so take off the skeleton, so put the other one in the frame to do it all at once and then he has the right to do it again like everyone else to get that compensation for that construction reconstruction. So when he's done or in situations and all that, it wouldn't change that much. Because I think as they say, and unfortunately these devastating earthquakes have also created an opportunity to rebuild some objects, to appreciate some locations, positions, and here, of course, it's designed and the future of space because this earthquake has done Big damage and people want me to say to improve my standard of life. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64658	Next individual debate, respected representative Sinisha Jankač.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64659	The Honorable Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, the Secretary of State, and here is a long debate, uniting three points, but it is worth repeating because the thesis is constantly being imposed, i.e. Today we can say that he wants to get through two thesis. One thesis is called that nothing is done, and another the thesis is to criminalise public procurement. So first of all, the clean to repeat in the process is 3006 objects in the reconstruction process, of which 1051 objects are designed to elaborate, 617 objects are restored and currently working on 187 objects. So it's not true that nothing is done. The problem of slowness, the problem must also be said by this lex specialis and the relaw that we knew at the very beginning. But also the promoters and the majority, and then the opposition demanded strict compliance with the legal norms of that time. And we know that implementation of our law is good, but implementation has problems. Since each of our buildings that was built before the 1990s or early 1990s today has problems with the internship and that people in twenty, thirty years can't begin this property because of individual co-owners who don't want it or have some objections. So it should also be used in the future when we complete this renewal to go into full amendments to the law and apply everything we learn about the renewal today in future amendments to the law. The ownership problem is known and it is the biggest problem in the City of Zagreb where we do not have what I said and the established buildings, and where we do not have defined ownership. And we can practically say that we knew we'd run into these problems. This law does not solve these problems, but it bypasses that a complete recovery problem could be solved, and only property will be resolved later. Of course, at the very speed of solving ownership issues, it is important for construction and the law on public procurement is important. It is very important that it is not a violation of the Public Procurement Act, but a clean alignment with the existing European Public Procurement Directives. The public procurement bill is good. I can say from personal experience that it often lasts long, but brings good things because you have more bidders and you get lower prices. What is important to say here, and he mentioned colleague Pero means electronic public procurement notice where it will all be published. Nothing changes here. The supervisory authorities are DECOM and the Administrative Court that anyone interested in public procurement will be able to complain as it can today. And what is important to emphasize is that there will certainly be a new law ahead of us, i.e. amendments to the Public Procurement Act, where we will change and agree on current guidelines and regulations, because it is necessary in view of the current market situation, given the increase in prices of both goods, services, works and all that goes through public procurement. And yet this is very important for this law to be passed and to allow for a faster and more efficient solution to the problem on the ground. It is important here to note that all those objections that were in the first reading, which are precisely co-financing and co-financing problems here are the amendments to the law moving co-financing of co-owners. Whether it's good to end or not, but to speed up the procedure and eventually to solve the restoration problem, I think it's important. Now, that's a very, very broad topic that can pull various debates, but if we want to solve the problem then it's simply necessary. And here I am glad that there is no one here, who generally gave too much criticism. What I'd like to say in the end, was here mentioned everything that's [[/Intruder: Done.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64660	Time. Replica respected representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64661	Thank you. Well, here's my first question. It's about public procurement. So I can agree that all supplies of goods, services and works coming from the Solidarity Fund are moving towards the thresholds prescribed by the European public procurement rules. Because first, it is European funds, and second, there is an additional level of control. However, they cannot agree that this should refer to State budget funds and local budgets for the simple reason that too much space is being opened to manipulation and corruption. What I also think is that the Public Procurement Act contains integrated certain measures to reduce deadlines such as reducing the time limit to public procurement for 15 days of competition. And if you already have the appeal procedure and DCOM's decision here, then we won't really save much time, but you'll only get the opportunity to negotiate exactly who you want. I think that's really the way to potential corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64662	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64663	Here's your replica opposite each other. It means the funds we get from the EU ok. It's good to follow the directive and it's consistent with the directive, but for this the rest is not. However, we are part of the EU too, and I think we should follow the trends, and normally DCOM and the Administrative Court are there to monitor it. Griefs are always allowed to complain. I could now just ask if you as a political party have an interest in seeing Zagreb that is being restored goes over this harmonised and large public procurement thresholds, and for everyone else it doesn't matter, let them suffer, let them suffer, etc.? However, it is in everyone's interest to have a line with the European Directive. We see the problem here and we want to solve it with harmony, and then the same same problem we learn and fight all of us who want to do and build.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64664	Time. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Honorable representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64665	Thank you. So here's the representative really insults us as the whole club speaking and completely chasing terms. So the Solidarity Fund restores public purpose buildings both in Zagreb, and will be renewed in Banja. Secondly, Zagreb has the largest fund, in fact, private apartments for reconstruction that are not financed from the Solidarity Fund, but from the state budget and local budgets. Therefore, we also ask that a standard called the Public Procurement Act be respected and that what is always applied be applied. These aren't trends. There are no trends, but there is a Public Procurement Act which defines how goods, services and works are supplied in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64666	Time. You used this as a replica. You're getting a warning. Next is the individual debate of the respected representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64667	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed chairman. By going through articles, paragraphs, items, figures of this Law which so brutally, so directly, so massively and in the long term determines the fates of people, families, villages, villages, cities, and even entire regions, I can't help thinking that we are all together and proposings and we who are going to adopt or not adopt these amendments and additions of this Law are actually one big alibi of the play of wrapping up an incompetent public administration in the whole of some legality and order. It is already the very intensity of this Act, this proposal to amend and supplement the law of the explicit acknowledges that the difficulties that have led to the halting of the process of renewal, I quote: "The direct consequence of the legal framework of the applicable Law that conditions decision-making, the determination of facts that in many cases cannot be established without the implementation of the long-term examination procedures etc. and which becomes an insurmountable problem, which shows the inability to act more quickly or make decisions." So it is the Government, that Ministry, and that same government, which is the same government that is the law that is still in force which has made it, which recognises it in the amendments and additions to this Act. We got "take it or leave it" a year and a few days ago law on the table. Now... a colleague says, so you voted. We are, therefore, because it was taken or left behind, because it was said to us, so if you do not vote for it then there will be no renewal, so it will be you who are guilty, etc. The catastrophic earthquake that hit Sisak and Banija after the law was passed made it even more visible made the law completely impertinent and it had to be clear to everyone. And that's how the Law on Building Reconstruction turned into a law on the deception of citizens. That's the real truth about this law we're discussing today. I live directly in Sisak City. They're my fellow citizens. They're not my voters. They're my friends, they're my cousins. I was personally affected by the catastrophic effects of the earthquake. I feel it said shame when Minister Horvat or someone shows up and starts pouring numbers on numbers I don't know how to solve acts, conclusions, facts, etc. It's hard to listen trust people who see that nothing happens that their houses don't get fixed. My neighbors on my street on 10 houses fixed their chimneys within 14 days of the earthquake themselves. They're nowhere in the records. They've made their expenses, they've put on those cans, I don't know what kind of things or who should have done it, and talking and selling God and representing repairing chimneys as a restoration really doesn't make sense. That's why I mention this all together because I'm not a normative optimist. I believe the laws should have etc. The problem lies not only in this bad law, as legislators recognized. The problem here is that the government is naked in the process of reconstruction, exposed as one that has not only fallen, but has shown all its sub-capacitation in both legislative and institutional, both professionally and finally politically. Who guarantees respected colleagues and colleagues that this law will speed up and indeed carry out the restoration and provide people with a roof over their heads? Will we finally understand the importance of reforming the public administration at the collapse of building rebuilding? Will we finally learn the meaning of state and state institutions? It's a central issue that we are being imposed on from this debate and I don't have time to explain the importance that the state's inability to resolve easier work is to rebuild the house evidence for a perfectly justified and quite clear inconspicuous inability for the state to rebuild life, revitalise Bania, because the rate of rebuilding houses is directly related to the motivation of people to stay in those parts. The stampede democratic breakdown is what hangs like a Damocle sword over those people's heads.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64668	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64669	And I fear without political will that this process will lead to desolation and eviction, aging, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64670	We have a replica of the respected representative Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64671	Thank you. Dear fellow Vidovic, here you have indeed had a nice exhibition and my replica is aimed at really starting to run some kind of culture of dialogue in this House. You said this law turned into a hoax. I claim that this law has been a hoax from the very beginning and nothing is emerging now. But when you were talking about the meaning of the state that we're actually only going to see through this bill if we've figured out what the state is for in the first place, and maybe I'm a little different from you. I don't think the point of the state is to rebuild the house, so here's ours not even able to perform that simpler task. The point of the state is to establish a reliable, secure normative framework, and houses should be restored by the owners themselves. We did not understand in 30 years the existence of this state the concept of ownership and the obligations arising from it, nor the role of the state in encouraging the economy, opening up opportunities and perspectives, as well as how in a nice, transparent way it performs its social role without the matter of new inequality and new division.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64672	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64673	That's the problem with this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64674	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64675	I'll be right back. It's, of course, one big topic that we could talk about what kind of recovery concepts exist in these cases in the first place. Somewhere it's really done by the state, somewhere in the central state, somewhere in the local state. Let's say the Germans, as far as I know, they started with a completely different concept, a model. Privates, people, owners rebuild their houses after those catastrophic floods. The State is participating in the co-financing of some solidarity funds, etc. That shouldn't be controversial. However, the concept of revitalisation offered by one expert group for the reconstruction of Banija, which is conceptually entirely on the trail of what you warn, has been completely rejected and we believe that the purpose of the state is to share and share it with its own assessment and mercy as mercy. I can agree with you, but in this case, the responsibility of the state is in something else, but I don't have time to explain it right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64676	Next individual debate, respected representative Marijana Petir. It's a pulac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64677	I thank the chairman. To begin with, here is a message to all those who in their best faith supported the adoption of this Law a year ago, and here we are who we were against the law telling us that we are not sensitive enough because we do not have feelings for people in an accident. Well, don't trust HDZ when he's wearing gifts. So it turns out that that law was bad and uninjured and in his first version. If you look at it today, I've looked at the Ministry's pages a little while ago as many renewal requests have been filed. 9 thousand 310, 7 thousand 432 requests for non-creation reconstruction, so activities in Bania and completed work on 617 facilities, which accounts for 8.3%. So after a year and a half after 10 months of earthquakes in Bania, and here's 10% of the facilities haven't been restored. In the area of the City of Glina, the mayoral office also says that the state has not restored a single house, and people have been restored by various donations of a variety of civil society 36 objects. With these changes, some of the laws that were a bad law which made no sense of legislation as such, and even with such a cataract detachment allegedly some narrow throats will not be seriously restored above all and the City of Zagreb will not be. The whole idea of a leader rebuilding not only the law as its result is wrong. When we talk about Zagreb, he needed without an earthquake not only a complete renovation of the building, but an infrastructure that shoots on all sides. That is why the idea of restoring Zagreb with a model of social patches is wrong. It was meant to be completely restored by the idea of growth of its value so that, through major investment projects, reconstruction actually turned into construction and reconstruction of the city. The reconstruction in terms of social state financing of permanent buildings in order to return to the earthquake situation is a safe path to the final devastation of the city. Only a complete reconstruction that will connect and restore the city's cultural heritage with the construction of new capacities by investment and not social logic can make Zagreb a city of desertion desirable for the future. What does the profession and architects say about the question, so what are the biggest problems of the law? So here I'm going to partially quote one answer. So the law has been wrong since the beginning, even though we were all aware of the need for an emergency response knowing all the problems with construction procedures and spatial planning, we felt that we had to do something to keep it from slowing down. In the Law of Reconstruction, we saw that it would not be enforceable, so the waist immediately saw that it would not be enforceable and that it would introduce unnecessary slowdown of the process. That the law focused exclusively on the financing of renovations and left the technical part to the regular legislation, so the existing laws are convinced that we would have at least 50% of building permits for reconstruction of buildings damaged after the earthquake today. The other problem is that the law is designed so that the state is an investor. The view is therefore that the law should encourage real estate owners to invest in their own properties. In this respect, the state only needed to give them a certain incentive. This incentive is primarily financial and what most people need. But for us, even more important is the incentive in which the state and local self-government are offering citizens strategic thinking about the future of developing an earthquake-affected area. We are convinced that the results of such quality thinking for the result would have an even greater motive for investors. So here we won't vote for this second step of bad law, which in fact these areas under the earthquake will only capture in a false restoration of some building at the expense of the whole reconstruction in Zagreb and other areas. So here we are simply today, and we have referred to the procedure of a law that would be removed from our legal gain law that does not belong in it while there is still time and until they bring in damage that will be difficult to solve as well as the effects of the earthquake itself. So the law that will actually abolish this Law of Reconstruction, and the renewal will continue with existing laws and procedures. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64678	Replica is a respected representative of Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64679	Dear colleagues, that we would not only care about how the Centre Party and the Party The Voice suggest that this Law be abolished without having solutions, therefore, it is very simple to explain. We don't need the law. We need a renovation. Well, it kind of seems to me that in the time ahead, we're going to need to talk more about not this law. It's no use to him anyway. But just about how to rebuild it and how to implement it, how to finance it. The capital of Zagreb is not just a town of its inhabitants. It is also a city where numerous state institutions and state bodies are located. It is, therefore, of the interest of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia to see how the funds will be spent. How do you comment on the fact that for a year and a half after the earthquake, the state has not restored any state-owned buildings for which neither the papers nor this Law nor anything the minister spoke of were necessary? What does that prove?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64680	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64681	Well, here's the proof, actually I'd say that this law really doesn't need to be done. That's why we told you when we started, so we're not destructive, but it might just be the best incentive for the restoration to start removing what's slowing down, and here we've proven that this Renovation Act slows down the self-renovation. Here's the profession that says that we've been guided and that the current laws would have been restored by 50% by now. So we've created a law out of I don't know let go of some desire to speed up this process complicated the procedure. In the field, people don't know what law to follow. We've heard here today and from some colleagues from the field that they actually shake hands on this law and stick to the old laws to go faster. So, actually, this Law of Reconstruction really needs to be abolished, and then it's probably going to be restored and breathed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64682	There's an individual debate coming up. Honorable representative Romana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64683	I would like to thank the Vice-President of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, my fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament. The recovery law for earthquake - affected areas should have been solid for those citizens who lost their homes in the earthquake. However, after a year and a half since the first earthquake, many citizens are still at risk of poverty waiting for the day when they will be able to be in their home and perhaps welcome this Christmas in the warmth of their home. More than a year ago, both amendments and questions to the Prime Minister himself, I pointed out to Minister Horvat that if the amendment of the Law on the treatment of illegally built buildings did not go in the direction of accepting those requests that were illegal, unless the deadline for submitting the application was extended that the whole law would be in vain, unequal and to the detriment of those most threatened. Because none of the authorities wondered why these citizens had until this day, until then the act had not come up with a solution on the state of play or legalized their assets. Well, gentlemen, the dear answer is that in 90% of the cases these citizens from that area were in financial inability to legalize it. It's mostly an older population. A small number is only those who were careless. In the regular procedure of the request, they were to attach an architectural recording or project, a geodetic video of the state of play. In order to issue an act on the state of play, the applicant had to pay the municipal contribution, the water contribution, the compensation for the illegal detention of the facility. When all of this is put on paper it's for a family house of 100 square meters is about 20 thousand kuna. With all the problems that these citizens have experienced, the additional cost of 20 thousand kunas to legalise a damaged or toxic object for them was unacceptable. If my proposals had then been adopted, the amendments would not have been in front of the wall in realisation, and these citizens today would not have debated the amendments today, and these citizens would not have been without a roof over their heads to this day. The proposal, my proposal had the appropriate weight and would allow citizens affected by the earthquake to rebuild illegal facilities at minimum extra costs. But most of all, we'd have a roof over our heads.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64684	Next is an individual debate by the respected representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64685	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Sanader. There's no friend of mine, Mr. Bukarica. There is no minister either, but there is a chief inspector, so welcome to those who represent the government, greetings to their colleagues, colleagues, staff and the Croatian people. There's a lot of things I want to tell you. So I'm still a theologian, so I need to look at the world from another perspective. It's been going on too long. So the second day after the earthquake, we first came 6 from Rijeka and then the 4th day 17. We've been there a long time. Some of us are climbers, so we climbed the roofs. Helping people with the ticks. There were not a few building engineers, architects from Rijeka, so we helped people on the spot. We heard today all day discussing this new law. In Germany, it takes 15 days for it to go into action to help its people after natural disasters, and we have been thinking for more than a year about what we are going to do and now we are sure that we know what we are going to do or ruling. Are we sure about the opposition, at least we at the Bridge Club that this isn't good enough either. I'd concentrate on Sisak-Moslavina County. That's where I was in Nebojana. I've been through all of Petrinja, Clay, all of those areas. For nine days and about nine nights, I slept there with people in a firehouse, and we must not allow the whole area to be wounded by war now and devastated. It's not just about physically restoring something. You can set up a million-dollar building in the middle of Petrinja, Clay with the most luxurious apartments and if you don't return the meaning of life to Banovina people won't return there. What little is left of the people there if you don't get that positive back, the energy, the ambience of the people won't want to go back there. And that is why it is necessary to create an entire project, revitalise the entire area, special tax reliefs, demographic measures. So, you need a completely different concept to people there, and it's a beautiful Croatian neighborhood, that people there want to come live and be part of that story. So, we heard here, some of them predicted, I must admit it shocked me that the renovation might take 20 years. Well, that's scary. If I'm alive then how long will I be? I don't know, 60 and 2, 3 years. Well, that's scary. So, what about the people who are there? What about the people who are still out there in the Dumpsters still waiting for winter? So, ruling you have a mandate. You were chosen by the Croatian people. So what am I supposed to do in opposition clap and say bravo, bravo when it's not bravo. Man, it takes you a year to build a roof over people's heads and help them on the spot so they don't freeze there, that the rain doesn't rain on them, that their treasure doesn't die there, but that it's all arranged to help them specifically. Something you do, I'd be a liar if I said nothing was done. But that's not enough. That's not enough. So it takes a lot, much stronger. The Croatian people must know that every citizen in employment will pay this reconstruction 85 thousand kuna from their pockets. Let's not, for your people, if that's what our people need, they're our people. Well, it wasn't my friends that Rivera said in 91, so we're at peace in Rijeka, so we don't care what's in Vukovar, but 300 volunteers left immediately in the first year went to the battlefield from Nuštr to Gospić, to Vukovar. So let's pay. But it's important that every bit of lip our citizens pay for, and many barely survive to go into safe hands and really do it right, not to read again in a year, two, three about some new problems that have come up, some new thefts and some new situations that we're rather small about, we're a country. Enough and more corruption and nepotism. Give the men so we can look each other in the eye. And there's a colleague there who's been bragging about it today, and yet here's mine to say it, maybe something clearer, even though I'm not taking anyone's rights away. The Sisak diocese made a lot of 30 families and apartments, and 200 containers immediately Caritas, and they invested a lot of money and it's good. The church should always be criticised when it is wrong, but where good works should always be said good works. Well, that Bishop Košic there did great things for our people there. So I really think we're too small to jump on each other's heads and let everyone do what can make our people better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64686	We have two replicas. The first is a respected representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64687	Thank you. That fellow Miletic should be warned about what was wrong, and unfortunately a lot of the bad was directed by the state or, as you have well concluded, was too slow and insufficient. But you should commend all the good people from volunteers who are like you were there from day one, to people who have now helped rebuild. So I've personally been in touch with the people of the Makarska Riviera. One company led it and they restored it, it was the first ever completely renovated new house built near Petrinja, in Jabukovac. So, and by all private means, all the private initiatives and actually show up already, that's what colleagues were saying here through the debate that it was more done through this private initiative without these laws, this thing that they were ruling and helping. So more people have done their own good and private initiative to rebuild Banovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64688	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64689	Thank you very much. I think we're 36 houses, so the roofs are solved, chimneys, nylons all from donation. But I've seen colleagues there, I've seen colleagues from We can, and SDPs some, I've seen HDZs. So the only thing that hurts me is that it has to fall on our heads a volcano and then us together. Is it? So, now we're gonna do something, right? So it's the only thing that really hurts me. So we have fewer inhabitants than the city of Milan. So as we're doing demographics, we won't be gone in 50 years. We'll be like an endemic species, they'll move us to the island of Krk and then they'll pay tourists a ticket to come and see what the Croats look like. And as we treat each other, I wouldn't be surprised if our co-existence didn't end well there, either. So I think we should all work together, I tell myself to Marina, to myself first and then to everyone else. But that doesn't mean that we won't criticize everything that's wrong in love, for good. So don't steal, that thief doesn't steal, the thief doesn't steal because it's not good. So I'd expect you to tell me don't steal, you are a normal brother.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64690	The next replica is the respected representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64691	Here's a esteemed colleague of the neighborhood you were now talking about in my Sisak-Moslavina County, Bania gave huge victims in the war, 100, 1000 people were executed, missing, displaced, unhappy. The end that has experienced the largest demographic cataclysm in Croatia in the last 30 years has the highest rate of emigration, the oldest population, the only county in which more pensioners are in than employees. So, there is a dramatic diversion over Croatia, let alone the European Union. So I'm saying all that before the earthquake. Now, after the disaster, instead of the government offering a full concept of reconstruction, nothing was offered, and promised in the January of some group formed, invited experts. So cataclysm follows because our houses, there will be no one there to live for, nor will they do that, unfortunately, is what is seen from the conduct of this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64692	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64693	Well, I agree with you. We knew it at night, you beat yourself up from work, then you drank half a liter of wine, and then you don't know what. And then those people who are there pay and say, so when this is over, we're gonna go, and the young guys and girls, so right out of Neboan, here we go. So, one beautiful couple of young people now not to mention them, as Marine, we're going to rebuild what we can and we're going to go, and that's, you know, it's our responsibility to all the brothers. So I think if everyone leaves, who's gonna stay? Okay, the senior will die because it's life, it's nature. Sometimes, unfortunately, young people do disease, and I don't know what. But who's going to stay in that country? And then really fellow Vidovic, why did our boys fight? That we fight here, jump on each other's heads, and people leave us, that our smartest, best intellectuals go away, best scientists go away, best athletes go away, that the young people who are sick of this madness are going away. They're all leaving, aren't we? ...we, I have my little luck, and I don't know what, disaster. We'll be alone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64694	Thank you, Mr. Miletic. Next individual debate, respected MP Anita Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64695	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable representatives of the ministry, dear colleagues and colleagues. I will be here today after all day we talk about restoration I will look a little more at this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods which we may have neglected today. I welcome the amendments to the law in question to ensure that decisions can be taken more quickly and made by the competent authorities to protect and preserve cultural goods in the event of the occurrence or declaration of exceptional circumstances, as well as effective and appropriate cooperation with other bodies and entities in charge of handling in exceptional circumstances such as earthquakes, floods, ground skating or other extraordinary events. I have also highlighted this in the reply to the proposal, but I think it is necessary to warn that the system of control or precision in the law itself should make sure that there is no abuse of the possibility of other extraordinary events. In doing so, I think that this formulation could be used for other purposes in cases where the investor wants to get rid of some cultural goods for other investments. But here we are, and in the replica I explained it further. I also believe that it is necessary to make any documentation of the immovable cultural good before removal unless it has already been recorded in the records of the protection of cultural monuments, and not only where necessary, it is Article 64... Two of these suggestions. But since we do not often talk about cultural goods here in the Croatian Parliament, I will take advantage of the opportunity and look back at some of the situations regulated by the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, but in practice they are not solved in a way that respects the fundamental intensity of the law, which is the establishment of protection against cultural goods, obligations and rights of the owner of cultural goods. I will give an example from Ličko-Senj County, specifically the City of Gospić, for many years now in the city itself, are standing and collapsing construction facilities that are on the list of protected cultural goods. For example, the tower of the age of Senkovic dating back to the 17th century, and now it has almost fully grown into trees because it is not being maintained, and it is the oldest architectural facility in the town of Gospić. This is just one example, and there's more of these buildings in the old city core. There were, of course, attempts by the city authorities to rebuild and put themselves into office. However, always the basic problem is private ownership and unresolved property relations, which have proved to be an insurmountable problem in protecting, restoring and putting into service construction cultural goods. The additional difficulties are that these objects were killed in the Homeland War by years of shelling, which further improved the decline of valuable cultural and historical buildings. The law, of course, provides that the owner of cultural goods is obliged to treat cultural goods with due care, safeguard and maintain it regularly. If it is not followed by the competent authority, it will warn it and set a time limit for it to implement the measure. Of course, the situation is also clear in other aspects, but it is not implemented in practice because owners do not use any of the possibilities arising from the law or to finance maintenance through certain projects, nor decide to sell, nor offer first-time state, county, city or municipality, nor have these cultural goods and have no intention of putting these cultural goods into economic function at all. Time goes by, and the cultural good is going to waste. Lika is also rich in archaeological finds and situations occur that, after completion of archaeological research, movable cultural goods must be buried because there is no possibility, and unfortunately no need, no initiative to be put into office. And the question is, how do you put cultural processing into operation? One of the opportunities that I am talking about in Lica is precisely at this time the crown of the crisis which ended up being important and recognizable because of tourists who want peace, quiet, staying in nature is precisely the synergy of natural potentials and cultural heritage which represents a good direction in developing sustainable tourism in a way that by offering cultural content many of them is kept from decay and oblivion as soon as the expansion of the tourist offer generates economic growth and employment both in culture and tourism and all accompanying activities. I therefore call on our ministries in charge of culture and tourism, tourist and cultural workers to try together to preserve our cultural heritage because it is nevertheless an expression of the identity and existence of the people its history, traditions and the creation of civilization [[Intruder: Time.]] in this space. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64696	You have several replicas, the first respected representative of Branko Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64697	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, colleagues Anita Pocrniæ really is worth a few words to say at the end of the day about the extremely valuable cultural goods that have also suffered. In fact, there are resources in the Solidarity Fund that are available to us, but we have a short deadline for their withdrawal, and we know that cultural goods are complex and long-term procedures from project creation, obstacles that come to us in the collaboration of designers, conservatives. It is very important to take care of the stability and resilience of these objects. And in the Republic of Croatia, we also have a limited number of experts working on such projects. We all look forward to doing this as best as possible to save them for future generations for all of us who care about it and the aspect of tourism. It's important to us that it's both quick and quality, but we have to be patient. And nothing can go to the expense of quality. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64698	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64699	Thank you, colleague, that is why I wanted to point out a little today this part of the cultural monuments because despite everything we have experienced in the Republic of Croatia this year, we must not ignore the rest of the country, and it is precisely the preservation of cultural monuments that we can revitalise all of our regions, especially the continental part, because it is the very function of cultural objects that raises, of course, and the profit that can be achieved, that encourages the employment and survival of people in these rural areas. Of course, these processes are slow and there are cases from my county where, after 30 years, certain objects are being renovated as in Perusic or in Brinje Turkish towers, but the work is gradually being done and these cultural objects are already being put into operation as a tourist offer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64700	The next replica honours MP Ankica Zmaic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64701	Dear colleagues, I am pleased that you have looked back on this law today and mentioned the problem of private ownership and unresolved property-legal relations in the context of protected fixed cultural goods. In the units of local self-government, this unresolved property-legal relationship creates difficulties or problems, and in order to solve such problems for these cultural goods that are in the area of the specific municipality of Vrpolje, let's say for a decade that our owners, etc., and so that today the value of this cultural goods, so that this cultural good today would have a greater value, or value, would be greater and we could arrange these objects than cultural goods. So here's how you explain it, and what's the situation with you, you mentioned it, but I'm asking you to explain it one more time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64702	Here right now and to continue on what I said that these are mostly these processes of cultural property are slow and exhausting, and one reason is that these unresolved property-legal relations and cities and counties throughout Croatia have a significant problem with these property legal relations, regardless of the various laws prescribed procedures and rules. However, the Constitution and the Law of Ownership also have the right to property which is undeniable, but there is also the obligation of the owner of some property to maintain it in the spirit of a good master, to take care of it and to put it into a function. So now, in order not to do some repression and coercion, perhaps few units of local self-government could work to motivate, encourage and create conditions for those cultural goods to become in some way attractive to invest and ultimately to earn profits.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64703	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64704	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, you have looked back or talked about cultural goods in your debate, which I welcome, of course, that cultural heritage must not be forgotten, but I think we should look back at the recovery, in the restoration of significant efforts made in the economic recovery of this area, which contributes naturally to social and economic empowerment. Support for the preservation of jobs has been provided, currently 18,554 workers and 4,871 employers are involved, for which 76 million kuna has been paid. The measure that has proved to be successful in Sisak-Moslavina County has been aimed at unemployed persons registered in unemployment records. The measure included 468 persons for which 16 million kuna was secured and this measure was extended for the next 6 months. I think that, in parallel with reconstruction, we need to ensure and revitalise in order to ensure Of course, survival in those parts. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64705	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64706	As the question of labour force means, something has already been mentioned today, but we haven't heard any concrete solutions to ensure labour. And if someone had said 10 years ago that we in Croatia with the 400,000 unemployed at the time would have a labour problem probably make fun of him, but that was a hunch of our own intention to join the EU from the experience of other countries that have entered the EU that actually pulled their workforce back, and we could have expected it. But it's not too late now either, here and HZZ has been offering requalification, training and so on for many years. and of course it's not too late to motivate our workforce yet, but provided that this workforce is well paid and has good working conditions. One example was the construction of the highway, 10 years ago, 20 years ago, we didn't have a problem with labor. Why? Because the salaries were excellent and no one complained and left Croatia. So that's it. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64707	Next individual debate, respected representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64708	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Dear Vice President. Well, listening to just the previous debate, I don't know if we're talking about amendments to the earthquake law or whether we're talking about something else, but it doesn't matter. I'll say what's not there, I won't talk about what's in this law. In fact, I read the Law on Administrative Taxes in the Law on Administrative Taxes does not say that the person who initiates an administrative procedure for obtaining certain aid from the State because it is affected by an earthquake in any way, in any way, so the law does not foresee it, and predicts one other thing. It provides that the exemption from charges can be achieved not only through the Law on Administrative Taxes of the Republic of Croatia but also if it is laid down in a special regulation. I think that this law amending and supplementing the law that we are discussing today in the first and second readings belongs to the category of specific regulations. So looking at everything, the first law, looking at its first changes and additions, and now these others, I don't see that people are in any way affected by the earthquake being freed from administrative fees. I know that we digitized the process, and I know that everything should go according to some kind of automation, and that's what we discussed here, and we've heard a lot of things through the media, but evil shouldn't. Taking into account our bureaucracy where people are most often consciously doing work and enough to have an OIB to access certain information, we have an e-Citizen, etc., but you never know. I don't see any reason why people should exercise certain rights just because they're affected by an earthquake would not be exempt from administrative fees. I know that administrative fees aren't some big amount that would free these people from it, but I think it's a nice message among other things, and that in any case it would help people, especially people with the lowest incomes, taking into account our statistical ones in the last place in terms of poverty in Europe, so these people who are poor, who are our citizens and 20, 30 kunas, mean something. And the other thing is that I got the impression as a man from Rijeka, I come from Rijeka and the Primorje-Gorski County, who and money helped except the people, whether it's about our voluntary fire departments, whether it's about medics, whether it's about cheerleader groups like Armada and others, as well as our war veterans who came not only to Petrinje but throughout Croatia, but I publicly thank them, but I still get the impression that because we don't have a moratorium on the property market that's affected by the earthquake, that this helps investors more than the citizens who are affected by the earthquake, and I think that we need to take first of all to take care of the citizens, not the capital. Here I am even shorter than the rules of procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64709	You have two replicas, the first respected representative of Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64710	Thank you. Dear colleague, I really don't know how to tell you this. You've been in politics for a long time with me, you're a veteran, and this is exactly what you're exhibiting to me might be an example of why sometimes in this assembly I feel so frustrated. So, I'm really trying to follow closely everything that every one of you is saying and talking and, well, I'm asking if there's anything I can do with you. In order to agree with you, so here we are talking about a law that is inconclusive, we are talking about billions that are not known whose pockets are going to come together, we are talking about the state not being able to manage, and of all these important and large issues you have touched the fact that citizens are not exempt from paying administrative fees. So do you really think of everything that this law and the non-existent restoration bear with it from all the destroyed areas, dwellings and houses of our citizens are plagued by this symbolic compensation, and we are talking about the design of a literal corruption scam that will be Godzilla compared to all the corruption affairs we've had so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64711	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64712	My colleagues Oreshković, I listen carefully to all the debates, especially from my colleagues from Zagreb, Sisak or other parts. I said in the opening of my debate that I would look back at what was missing, everything else was said by my predecessors. We have a united discussion today about three laws, and I just wanted to point out the fact that there's a missing fourth because it's missing because you're missing. Why should I repeat the story about my colleague Vidovic or my colleague Brumnic, but that's why I'm here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64713	The next replica is the respected representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64714	Dear colleague. So here's how we've heard the numbers so far in a year and a half of the total requests for reconstruction have been restored to slightly less than 9% of the facilities. Do you believe that the amendments to this law that are likely to be adopted will help to make this renewal go faster or perhaps here we would agree with our request that this law simply be abolished and that they actually apply the current laws in this area because they say on the ground is actually a conflict between the Law on Reconstruction and the current laws in the area of construction because people simply don't know, are confused with not knowing what to apply, so this is also the cause of the slowdown of the whole reconstruction process? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64715	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64716	When the first law was at stake in my individual debate, I said I'd shut my nose and vote for the law. As many things and many of our amendments were not rejected, but at that point it was better in any case for me to have any law than not to have a law. But it turned out to be a flaw, so from that point of view we were right, and the fact is that what we're proposing now is partly, in part, but only partly de facto includes what we warned it would happen, so it turns out that we were right. But under the exception of these changes and additions, unfortunately much depends on the discretion of the master, and less about transparency and thus de facto gives space to possible Sundays. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64717	Next is the individual debate of the respected representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64718	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Most of the previous debates, so the opposition, I think, have touched all the major problems of this law. I'm not gonna say anything special new or smart. So whoever's been to Banovina, and they know people here, of course, and in the city of Zagreb, there's really nothing since the renovation. These figures, which the minister often lists and uses to show that something is happening in Banovina or Zagreb, are mainly small adjustments, works, so as to complete the renovation of real estate, houses, homes that have been completely affected by the earthquake, there is almost no movement. I have a group with my Banovina Bridges, and now before I came out here, I asked them, do you have anything you want me to say here I've been listening to that debate all day, I've been passing on to them, some are watching what's being said here, and they've only told them this, we've got a lot of patience in Banovina, we've had a lot of patience in the Homeland War, we've talked about some colleagues already, a colleague Vidovic, but what we can't stand, we can't stand to be lied, we can't stand to be stolen and we can't stand the corruption that's in Banovina. People say there's a lot of resources coming in, no one wants to show any bills, there's no transparency. It was promised that I would say it myself in the replica here and the minister, that by Christmas everyone would be in solid objects, so some i.e. the exact number is 3,000 still doesn't have a container. So I'm personally out this summer for a couple of days just not seeing how these people live because you can't come in there for three, four days sleep in a container and see how someone lives because it's not the same life, it's been four days for me, and they've been living like that for months. In fact, I didn't have there or did any work that they had to do to make their households work, but I was their guest, it's a completely different story. But it was useful for me to actually talk to people and to try to get some of those problems they're facing into the public. And indeed, that's when the question of these containers without sanitary knots opened, the government said they'd list it. In addition, people say in a moment that there are containers that are not in use, some have taken them, the government says that the census says that it started with the census, nothing has been made on this issue, nothing has been done so that there is a possibility that the container on Banovina has enough but that they are not properly or distributed. So, there is nothing there I would say systematicity and in the work of the headquarters led by Minister Medved, and generally when we look at the global overall reconstruction in both the city of Zagreb and Banovina, so we can say the same thing we have the conflict of this Mr. Vangelić and Minister Horvat. They claim from the fund that their success and really when you look at those figures that they are really all they could and what was in their power, then the question is where are the problems, and these are the problems that my colleagues before me have already pointed out in the legislative framework itself. Of course it wasn't, I don't know who said it was easy to vote against the law then, so remember that they accused us of taking advantage of the disease of the late representative Tudjman in order to mince the adoption of the Rehabilitation Act, if you remember that they were such accusations that we were so insolent. In the end, it turned out that the law we so insolently blocked was so good that after a year we had to change it. I remember these moral blackmails and I understand colleagues, maybe we at the Mosta Club are colleagues Selak begged us to vote against, I said I'm an advocate elected so I can be against renewal, let's vote abstention, that means we don't support the law and we'll say the law is bad, but we certainly help people in a certain way. So we can't be against it because they're going to say here they don't want us to, that people who are so hit, and we know well both fellow Miletic and representatives from the Most Club, we went there to see how much they died, first in the Homeland War, and now from this earthquake.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64719	We have one replica, a respected representative, Mariana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64720	Well, here's a esteemed colleague, I'm just going to refer to the fact that you've been restrained by the bill because you say, you wanted to, you didn't want to be against the people. Sometimes people should be told what's true is not what he likes to hear. So many had some hope in this Law of Reconstruction that the restoration would take place in a month, two, three days. There were a lot of people here who had what, in the best faith, supported that law, but in fact what is happening right now, we can use that sentence freely, “Did we tell you? ” So, the law is inconclusive immediately, the problems of property law, the problems with investors or does not support investment recovery, so a number of the problems that are now being shown in public. And here, do you agree that it is best to abolish it and let the renewal go according to current laws? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64721	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64722	So I could agree with you to tell the people everything, but we said. So, the only political party that made the round table around the renovation and claimed that even under existing laws, this reconstruction could be implemented with experts, so we also said that the law was bad and inconclusive, and when you vote with abstention, it is I think it is as clear to you as leaving today as we left the assembly that they then voted with abstention, here. Only 3 MPs from... The U.S.S.S.S.S.S. Law wouldn't have passed. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, when you vote for it means that you support the law, then we say that the law is bad, that it is impregnable, and that it will not solve the problems that, concerning the renewal, we clearly, then communicate clearly. And I said that I understood those who here were morally valued, but this one I think was smarter, it would have been smarter if they had been restrained then, even though the law would again know that the rulings have a majority, but then the HDZ alone would have been responsible, this is how they shared the responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64723	Followed by an individual debate by the respected representative Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64724	The chairman, my fellow MPs and MPs. To vote for a law means to agree to its consequences, at least for those consequences that can reasonably or justifiably be assumed to occur if at least a minimum of reflection and visualisation is invested. We have initially claimed that the law is inconclusive and bad and therefore we have voted clearly against and here it will remain recorded through this debate that we have asked for this law to be abolished in full, and time will show that we are unfortunately right this time too. I've listened to what you're saying, especially you from the ruling majority, and you've been doing it over and over again during the debate, those phrases that your boss and the pronoun says to you, which shows that you don't care at all about the consequences. Therefore, this law will not bring renewal to either Zagreb, or Bania, or other earthquakes affected areas at least not to the extent or in the manner in which they should be restored. And let me say something about the very legislative course of passing these laws. So the first law actually showed the platform we can! that Andrej Plenkovic can outplay you. It was a pure political pamphlet and advert, there is nothing in this law other than the invention and formation of the fund, and the fund itself was founded by law, which is the only extra- budget fund, a fund that is not founded by law itself, but is hinted at by the agreement that it can be manipulated later and how this manipulation seems to see it in practice now. So the idea of the fund was to serve as a flow boiler for financial transactions that no one would ever check, to never know who they were and why funds were paid out of that fund. The paper will cover everything, but the contents will not. The first amendments and additions to the law were a clean buy of time, and this law we are discussing now is a deliberate fraud, so according to this law there will be no renewal, nor can it be. Now if we could talk a little bit about what kind of law we need, so first of all, we need a law that tells us when an earthquake occurs in any area in the Republic of Croatia to know exactly what the state is doing at that time, what local and regional self-government is doing and what individual rights are given to each of the people who were affected by this earthquake. We are unable to come up with such laws, we intervene in what situation, both at present and individually, if necessary. When we talk about how much financial management we need, we should start by defining what our budgetary options are, how much funding we have from European funds, whether from the state budget, see what needs are, and then, by some predetermined criteria that respect and some social components, say how much of this total amount of money belongs to. Did we say that with this law? We didn't. We have not even defined how much of the total mass we will give to rebuild public buildings, and how long and what order will individual transactions be paid to our citizens. Once again, someone will be in the front row, closer to the altar, and one of their own opportunities, their right to rebuild will never await, and not then. When we talk about what kind of transparency we need, we need transparency that will allow each individual amount to be determined who it refers to, what real estate and who owns it. There is no such transparency in this law. When we talk about the anti-corruption mechanisms we need, we need those who don't put their hands on the state to choose a contractor to rebuild private homes. Let citizens and real estate owners choose for themselves and thus reduce corruption risks. In any case, we don't need the minister to rule out the protection against corruption malfeasance. Well, it's like sending a hungry fox into a henhouse and expecting everything in that henhouse to be numbered after the hungry fox. Here's the model you've come up with in this law now, and we'll be amazed at his results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64725	We have a replica of the respected representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64726	Honorable President, distinguished MPs, just to retaliate the courtoasia, so you told me in the replica that the law is essentially unnecessary, but that we can apply the rules in force, so I'm only interested in what the regulations are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64727	Thank you for asking, the Construction Act. So we see on the ground that what is being restored is being renewed by existing laws. What the state could do was see what social categories to be helped and give them immediate and timely assistance, not a year and a half away. It is tragic in fact that you have a provision and in these amendments and additions to the law that says that it has already begun and is implemented under existing laws is not covered by the Law on Reconstruction. Well, that's the biggest shame and defeat of this minister. Sam admitted that the restoration could go, not only that he could go but also go without all his imagination through laws that did not serve his purpose. If the Law had been very useful then it would have already been in full swing, and we according to these models, the City of Zagreb will not see the restored in decades to come. Not in decades, let alone now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64728	Following is the final debate and is the first on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Club, the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64729	Thank you, Chairman. And now sugar at the end, something small about the proposals for a solution. Before the first law was sent to the center's parliamentary procedure, we visited the city of Zagreb, then there was no Banija and we took pictures of all the properties that they needed to rebuild in one way or another. I can't get you off this pay phone right now if the brochure has some 80 pages. And it is actually based on what the urbanists, architects, builders said about the need for the entire urban reconstruction of the city. And that's the model we stand for. It has not only implementation but also financial solutions that give citizens the opportunity to get new, valuable properties in attractive locations, safe, mechanically resistant, without costing taxpayers a single June. The more the whole city gets one new visor and new development potentials. I'll only point out some of the elements as long as time allows. So, we claim that investing in the recovery of some buildings in the purposely found state represents a clean waste of money whoever settled it, and that's exactly what structural reconstruction is, throwing money into.../incomprehensible/... that won't get quality real estate. We advocate that when we are already talking about the purposes and changes of the purposes of certain real estates in the reconstruction, we should seek to raise its value, create additional values, and then also the source of any additional financial benefit to the old or new owner. And then, instead of state or city as social supporters, banks as interested creditors and other investors can be very much involved. So, we are committed to respecting the potential of upgrade wherever justified and possible, and that means that it is necessary to access different interpretations as well. We advocate that the revitalization of every building be such that it is more cost-effective for a complete restoration. We also pointed out that many state or city spaces, especially in the most attractive parts of the city's strict center, were rented for symbolic amounts or assigned to the parties of associations and various other users who effectively operate in them for several hours a week, and all the other time these spaces, therefore these are state and city spaces of the gaps are empty. It's often about rooms the size of two-room and three-room apartments, they don't invest in these areas at the moment neither the state nor the city as owners, nor the users, I repeat, they are located in elite locations. And how much of such space in damaged buildings would be used instead of direct money, for example, to pay the investor for a whole, to rebuild the complete building in which such spaces are located, and each kuna used in this way is twice as useful as direct payment because both the city and the state are dealing with assets that they do not know how to manage adequately. And the fact that they are not adequately managed has been determined in countless times by the state audit. Therefore, the role of both the City of Zagreb and the state should be more focused on the control of the reconstruction, not on financial participation in it. In order to enter these models at all, it would be necessary for both the state and then the City of Zagreb to publish a public register of space allocated to parties and associations for use. Furthermore, one of the elements that we haven't talked about is that it introduces a whole series of new inequalities. For example, no one was talking about that the anti-quake reconstruction should have the same right for all those buildings that are not directly damaged or their physical damage is seen, but they should have the right to rebuild according to the same model, according to the same key as all those affected by this law. I don't get to say anything about block renovations, that's what the others were talking about, but what they're not about is that when we talk about restoration, we should talk about visions, and one thing is that we don't have to keep everything in order. Our proposal was, among other things, to move away from Markov Square as part of the reconstruction of the administrative building of the state and the city of Zagreb. In translation, this would mean that HS should also open to another purpose, for example for special formal sessions or for tourist or cultural attractions, and the administration of the assembly building as well as the town hall should be moved to a new location, respectively. build a new administrative reference centre. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64730	Following is the final debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Mosta, respected representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64731	The Honorable Vice President of the HS, Mr. Sanader. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Croatian peoples. First I have to say here I've been following the whole debate since the early morning, well it wasn't quite early morning either, but here until morning so far, as much as 19.20 thanks to all the colleagues who are here all day long and I have to say that I've been a little embarrassed to see the minister quite a bit upset, it's been very tense to feel that this is all going quite negatively, and it's strange to me because I don't know because if I can learn who are the complete extrovert and emotionalist of the entense to be chilled in these parliamentary debates then the minister still with much greater experience and the man who's in position of power should be able to cope with knowing whether it's ruling with his emotions in communication with us Assembly agents. So once again we're going towards the third amendment of the law, we've heard that it's from the rulings called this law by experiment, it seems to me that our people are really quite different experiments, and I'd like us to be concise and clear and finally bring about a change of the best. We also heard that only 3.7% of all requests were resolved, 13,600 which is definitely not good and doesn't sound very good. I wish these legal changes didn't happen if they made it possible for them to have something they shouldn't have in society anymore, that nepotism and corruption. I also wish that as soon as the gardeners were restored, 136 gardeners in the Banovina area didn't hear a promise until when we heard an explanation in the process is, such a politically wise speech where you say a lot, and you don't say anything. I'm a concrete I'd like to say, it's going to be restored for ten years for the Croatian peoples, so you've been counting on it for ten years, and this is all kind of not screaming at you, nor would I wish we were a little clearer to people. We heard today I think that colleagues from Can we talk about 5.1 billion from the Solidarity Fund for the recovery of earthquakes you asked that minister what with these money, how the projection, how the Fund will treat it, so we haven't heard the answer from the minister enough like this, it's all very strange to me. Croatian Caritas installed and equipped 200 containers, diocese Caritas Sisakian for three months prepared and delivered food, clothing, hygiene supplies, building materials to all residents. The Sisak diocese is currently building 30 houses for families with numerous children and older people, the diocese has 30 parish churches that are completely destroyed or severely damaged and the bishop told me that he is working with the Ministry of Culture and the Hungarian government and many donors to rebuild these churches, so get it done as soon as possible. We at the Mosta Club want the citizens' homes to be renovated, we first constructively came up with detailed guidelines of the Banovina Reconstruction Strategy and we are one of the clubs here in HS that proposed the most or among those who proposed the most amendments to the first version of the law in the assembly. I will repeat, every employee will pay for this restoration of 85,000 kuna, let alone... let it be good that our citizens wherever we live on this small territory of Croatia know that we are not alone. Not until God's never accident, we've had enough of the accident, but let people know if anything happens they won't be alone, they won't be left behind. But we have to be responsible and this is my one appeal, so the minimum we owe these people is to ensure that the processes are transparent, clear and that corruption is disabled. We were strangled by dear people all together, we can't breathe from this corruption, so we all should understand that when a neighbor calls you and asks you to say I don't want you to, help me this, I won't, I won't go away, I'm telling myself if Croatia should pass on to us. So, since these legal changes at the Mosta Club don't give us that certainty that everything here is going to be like a spaghetti, we as the Mosta Club can't support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64732	Next is the debate on behalf of the Green-Left bloc Club, the distinguished representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64733	Thank you. So, for the end of today's debate, the aim is to present what we think should be in the law, how it should be regulated, and to create conditions for renewal. First of all, we said that we had a general problem with the fact that this law does not redefine that the reconstruction of those buildings that are statically damaged is going according to the force of the law, but that all types of reconstruction are actually considered to be a business, a business of regular building administration. The amendments we submitted today and we've structured into some three parts. First, they are amendments that need to enable regional self-government units to strengthen capacities and their ability to actually participate in reconstruction. Others, strengthening the conditions for self-renovation, thus creating conditions in the law so that self-renovation can be implemented and so that those co-owners of buildings that have managed to agree to go beyond standard, that they are going to strengthen anti-quake resistance or the quality of building reconstruction may also participate in the co-financing of the construction section and of course the anti-corruption standard. First of all, we believe that in this part of the capacity of regional self-government units to participate in the reconstruction, we believe that as the first means of co-financing, all units should be able to finance from both the municipal contribution and the municipal compensation, and that this should be regulated here, and that they should also be able to do so through borrowing, whereby this borrowing should not be entered into the maximum annual obligation that units of local and regional self-government can make under the State Budget Act, or 20% of the total revenues of the previous year, as far as they can be charged. We already have such a case with the co-financing of European funds, such a case has already been applied to energy, and to credits for energy recovery, so we can use the same criterion that does not include this maximum of 20% to credit or borrowing for recovery needs. After that, we also believe that it is important that units of regional self-government and the City of Zagreb continue to agree on the programme of measures as a framework programme and a basic mechanism of implementation of this law, so they should not be expelled from granting consent to the programme of measures. If they will not give consent to the programme of measures then it is entirely this law that the government has taken on itself absolutely all responsibility, all responsibility for the success and failure of the restoration, and I fear that according to this proposal there will now be a failure rather than a success, but then it is really just your responsibility. Local self-government units should also be able to enable the simplified process to solve the issue of not only destruction waste, so construction, construction and construction waste, but all other waste that goes along with it, which is usually a bulky waste that comes through the reconstruction or destruction of buildings. We're also asking you not to delete it in art. 16th century 4th, which allowed people to actually go to the so-called so-called 4th century. the above standard, i.e. those who opt for a full renewal to finance their construction work by the State and the JLS, and finance the difference themselves. I don't see why they'd move it or why they'd erase it. We also believe that it is necessary to enable the owners and co-owners of buildings that go into construction reconstruction to invest with it other works either to improve the quality of the building, for example energy recovery or to increase the BRP which will finance this quality difference, that they are financed by the only part of which the state is bound by this law, and they, of course, include it all in the same project. This will allow us to revitalise and not return to the old, but improve the total housing fund. We also find it very important that homeowners and co-owners of multi-citizen buildings are allowed to start rebuilding on their own without a decision to rebuild, and that the decision to restore their costs was acceptable to them, to finance it from the same because it will encourage self-renovation. So all of these proposals are feasible, and that's the only way we can stimulate some kind of momentum in the restoration, without that happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64734	Final debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, Honored Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64735	Thank you. The SDP club has submitted 4 amendments and their fate will also depend on our position on voting on these amendments and amendments to the law. The first amendment concerns Art. 11th and 12th, where we propose to maintain the existing situation in a way that owners can design and implement building reinforcements if they implement the reconstruction themselves, because such a solution makes us think that they will have the right to co-financing. The third amendment is in Art. 24. where we explain to be proposed by amending Article 24. The 36th Law provides that for buildings that have a manager’s means of assistance for repairing the building will be paid before, during or after the renovation, while for all other buildings, including family houses, the payment of funds to help repair the building’s construction will be made only after the completion of the renovation, which brings the owners of these buildings into a more unfavourable position and we suggest that this change be made by our amendment. And the fourth amendment is in article. 29th because we estimate that the proposed solution opens up the space of manipulation during the reconstruction of public buildings. As for the context in which all this is happening, it is very clear, that citizens and the state have been hit by one natural disaster and the role of the state is to help these citizens, something that they themselves could not solve because of the objective circumstances that hit them. So, what they do, what all citizens of the state budget gather, people who have received citizens' trust in the elections should be fairly distributed to those who need it, and HS has already concluded once that this should happen between the others and these people that it has hit, so the earthquake has happened and they have suffered damages that they cannot resolve on their own. And the state has tasked two people, two officials, Mr Horvat and Vangelic to lead it into her lead. Which could go wrong when we put Horvath and Vangelic in charge. So I found someone like this, random a few statements about each other. So, Horvat, Vangelic should devote more affinity and barbecue to the restoration. Horvat, Vangelic and I don't fight, we don't seem to agree. Horvat, Vangelic can present his frustrations, proposals or announce his resignation. Horvat, I don't see a fight if we're different, we're different in concept. Vangelic, we don't have the money. So this concept between Horvat and Vangelic reminds me, in fact, of the difference between Plato and Aristotle's state, I just don't know who Plato would be in this case and who Aristotle would be. Plato was more ideal, for an ideal state, and Aristotle was more pragmatist he said that the state of nature was better than it was supposed to be. In this dilemma, who is, is Vangelic Plato, and Horvat Aristotle or vice versa I decided to give more advantage to Vanjelic to be Aristotle because he is more of this objector, and the quote of Aristotle is known as "I like Plato, but I prefer the truth". It seems to me that Vangelic is the one who warns about problems like Aristotle did, and that Horvat is more of a platonic one, so he's more of a beauty. Their teacher of one and the other in fact Plato's Socrates said the laws were just and protected by man. Is this law that we have brought just or protective of man? When we voted for him twice, we believed he was. counterpart Oreskovic thinks it would be better if we hadn't done anything to follow existing laws. So regardless of this philosophical dilemma, who Plato is, and who Aristotle seems to me to end up both as Socrates, and that he will be able to just choose between being replaced by what in Socrates' case would be an execution or resigning what would be poison drinking in this case. However it ends, however Socrates ends, they celebrated, and these two Plato and Aristotles today will be remembered only by having had a great opportunity to get the street in Glina, Petrinja, Sisak and perhaps Zagreb, and that it will never happen or as Duško Trifunović said in that song, nothing will be called for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64736	Following is the final debate on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club, a respected representative named Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64737	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, let's get back to today's reality. I will continue very much as my colleague Arsen did, which is a key question, which is why and because of who and why we are passing this law. This law when we first passed it I honestly believed that we were bringing it in because of people who were in need in the City of Zagreb, Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje County and showing it in some way what Croatia has repeatedly shown solidarity with those in need. I honestly believed, I pointed out some things that I thought were a problem, but I voted in favour of this law by believing that whoever took responsibility, which is not what counterpart Arsen Vangelic and Horvat said, but only Plenkovic, would implement the law and that we would get what was from this speaker announced. That we will get in the City of Zagreb a complete urban reconstruction, that we will get a quick and quality renovation, that people who died in the earthquake will continue to live in the City of Zagreb, in the centre of Zagreb, that they will continue to live after changing the laws and other earthquakes in Glina, Petrinja and Sisak, and not that we will speak from this pay phone the numbers of people who have moved out of these areas, or for a large part of those who are in the city center of Zagreb in practice that they will not be able to return. When it comes to the whole urban reconstruction in the City of Zagreb, the block renovation, the revitalisation of space, the communal infrastructure for the implementation of this, only two things are needed. The ability to control and the vision of those who manage. After a year and a half, I can say that I am sorry that I then gave the government confidence that they would do what she explained from this pay phone. With these amendments to the laws we are getting today, I have to admit I neither believe nor that the renewal will be carried out in a fair and transparent manner, nor that the ones for which we have passed this law will be protected. And I repeat, for the first time in my sincere belief that this law is being passed to protect those little people who died in this earthquake. After these changes, I have to admit once again, I also said about this speaker in the previous speech, I think investors are going to manage the space. But in order not to keep everything this black, I will wish happiness to the ruling majority and the government to implement the renewal, the Social Democrats Club has made one conclusion that I think is perfectly logical and I think it would be good to accept it, which is that every six months the government reports the implementation of this law, so if we see that there are problems somewhere, that we are not waiting again for a year and a half to try to solve these problems as soon as possible and as high as possible. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-20-0.u64738	With this, we've exhausted the debate, I'm closing the debate, we'll vote when the conditions are met. Tomorrow we will continue at 9.30 A proposal for a strategy to prevent corruption for the period from 2021 to 2030. I thank the secretary of state. Good night. The session was interrupted at 7:40 p.m. Next is the presentation of the position of the Club of Representatives of the Most Honored Representative of Nikola Grmoy.
