ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u57737	Good morning, dear colleagues and colleagues, we move on with our work. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I propose to the Rules of Procedure to supplement the 8th session agenda at 5 new points. The proposal to supplement the agenda was submitted by electronic means. In accordance with Article 225(4) of the Rules of Procedure, at the proposed points of completion of the agenda, it was not established that all the proposed items were included in the agenda of the 8th session. Here's the breach of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed representative of William Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u57738	Thank you, Vice President. I want to warn you that under Article 225. The Rules of Procedure need 24 earlier to submit this remark to this, however, in 19 and 37 we received this supplement in writing of the agenda so we couldn't have been 24 hours earlier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u57739	Here we go. Let's hear the explanation. Here's an interpretation of item 4 of the same article. [[Intruder: See paragraph 4. of the same article, so you will understand.]] All right, you can lodge an objection.../Intruder: See paragraph 4, see paragraph 4 of this Article 225.m at the meeting of the Assembly can be given in writing not 24 hours before. [[Subject: This is not a new session, this is a supplement to the agenda, so you can make an objection at the session itself in writing.]] What you're saying is about 24 refers to the first session when you get a call for a session. This is an addition to the agenda. Let him complain.... well if you estimate that something is not respected you object to the Committee for this Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Okay. Today's item of the agenda is the bill of law, here's the esteemed Urša Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u57740	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, for the very fun and amazingness of your acrobatics about the Rules of Procedure. We believe that the call didn't come in time and that the Rules of Procedure was injured. I would remind you that the Rules of Procedure were also injured on Friday, and we were also given the wrong explanation. Therefore, Article 227 was injured, I will make it very clear that if none of the MPs comment on the proposal to pass the law by an emergency procedure, then we are told that we must give it in writing. Nowhere is specified to be written. You can look at the video, he led Mr. Jandrokovic's session. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u57741	Okay... Okay, look, we're not here in a position, we're not in a position here, I'm not in charge of interpretation, you're going to make these remarks, they're not points on the agenda today so it could be something significant. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] You will make comments to the Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure, so we will, they will give you an answer to these comments.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u57793	The next Club of Representatives will be the Mosta, and the honourable representative Marija Selak Rasdic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u57794	Free speech is one of the few occasions in which we can look at the specific problems that plague our citizens, which we often avoid in parliamentary debates because we cannot influence the agenda. So today I'm going to talk about the problems that plague the worlds, the worlds that are viewed by the number of residents of 5 cities in the country. Besides being the 5th city in the country, they are also the most unsettled and debauchery city district. The liberalisation of the issue of permits for the disposal of all types of waste from dangerous to less dangerous has appeared as a space recognised as a gray unregulated zone in which easy hunting is beaten under quotes. The inspection services as well as no, and the police are usually busy with everything and everything. Adding to this, since its accession to the City of Zagreb, we have been treated as the last hole in city music, we get a complete framework for a serious mess already systematically produced in the Sesvets. It's really the state of things in the Sesvets, and I'm going to back it up with a concrete example that came out in the spring of the Sesvetian King, not far from where the city is hopefully temporarily, and we'll see and warn in time, deposited huge waste. In fact, there are 10 companies in Engineering Street dealing with construction or waste management in a less or more unacceptable way. In the spring, workers of the Croatian forests along the northeast fence of the complex Energotechne, former Almerie skins, discovered a large black hole in the forest owned by the Croatian forests. The basic evil has already been done at that moment. In the root is cut down the forest on the surface of ten thousand squares, the forest cut down in the root. They were cut down and untied trees from the oak tree and the jasen, it can't be said that there was no stone left on the stone because that black hole was right at the moment of their arrival, imagine, buried with 10,000 cc's of construction material. The thickness of that spill is from a meter to a meter and a half. The top is covered in negligent soil, so that there are pieces of concrete, asphalt and municipal waste, so that, of course, evil is as visible to a random passerby as possible. But scarier than the crime itself is the way it was carried out. Pure unscrupulous crime with imagination. In this oasis of madness, it is only possible to access that black hole by walking through the woods. Construction machinery can only access the site through a fence that fences the former in Kraljec for the ill-remembered Almer goats. The current owner of the complex is the Zagreb company Energotechna. In its vast complex there are several companies, and only three have pointed out their names on the fence, others have not dared to do so obviously. Two of them are registered to handle dangerous medical waste, but there's no name on the fence. The third is known as Veledrogeria. The unscrupulousness in which this crime is committed gives us the right to ask ourselves whether what is visible on the surface is just covering what we don't see at the bottom. Who and when did he cut down the forest in the Blackbeard Economic Unit? That's the key question we're looking for. In June of this year, workers of the Croatian Forests found huge buffers decommissioning and engulfing waste, saw them enter and exit the circle of Energotechna. Machines and people belong to companies unusual names A plus CONSTRUCTION d.o.o. It is terrible that the Croatian forests reported this crime in June, and nothing was done yet. It's terrible that after our call, police re-applications were repeated to the state inspectorate. It's terrible that no one has ever been metaphorically told that hair has fallen off their heads. When there is no strong rule of law, when there is no persecution and ruthless punishment, there is no justice. We're wondering how it's possible that six months after the forest massacre, we're still talking about an unknown perpetrator, and that the badgers and the badgers were found and photographed when the crime was committed? So we ask that the inspection responds to HS and justifiably concerned Holy Ones, what has she done so far to detect the perpetrator of this crime? Who are the perpetrators of this crime? Has the State Inspectorate completed its process of committing this crime? Is the state's attorney's office aware of the conduct of this crime? Because colleagues and colleagues, Croatian MPs, the inspection must work or should not be.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u57939	Dear Zdravka Busic will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club now, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u57940	Thank you, thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. As chairman of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, I would like to inform you about yesterday's meeting with representatives of the Croatian national minority in Montenegro, the president of the Croatian National Council of Montenegro, Mr Zvonimir Bekovic and the president of the Croatian citizens' initiative, Mr Adrian Vukanovic, who was received by Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. The meeting was attended by Foreign Minister Grlic Radman, State Secretary at the Central State Office Mr. Milas and I on behalf of the Assembly Committee on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. Croatian National Council President Mr Bekovic and Croatian Civil Initiative President Vukanovic informed us about the current situation in Montenegro and the activities they are taking to strengthen the position of the Croatian community and their political life in Montenegro, especially after the previous parliamentary elections in which the Croatian national minority lost its representative in the Montenegrin Parliament. Special attention is given to projects carried out through the Central State Office for Croatians outside Croatia that are extremely important for the preservation of Croatia's cultural and linguistic identity in Montenegro. In this context, the activities of the Croatian House of Culture in Tivat were discussed, which is in Donje... as the centre of all activities of the Croatian National Council in Boka Kotorska and beyond. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Representatives of our national minority in Montenegro have expressed satisfaction with their strong ties to Croatia and regular communication with representatives of the Croatian government, as well as cooperation on joint projects that are of great interest to the good status of the Croatian national minority in Montenegro. They also pointed to the problem of growing interethnic incidents, verbal attacks on national minorities with elements of hate speech that must be timely and unequivocally condemned by politicians and sanctioned by competent institutions. On that occasion, Prime Minister Plenkovic stressed that Croatia will react resolutely if they do, endanger the identity of the Croatian national minority in Montenegro and give a clear message of support in this regard. At the same time, he thanked Mr. Dekovic and Vuksanovic for everything they did to preserve the position of the Croatian, Croatian national minority and identity in Montenegro, which, of course, contribute to a more quality relationship between our two countries. Croatia is ready to help expand its capacity to expand the Croatian House of Culture in Tivat and reach a permanent solution to their property legal relationship. Also, Croatia will continue to assist radio, Radio DUX whose Croatian minority programme, along with all other cultural publishing activities, has a special importance for the preservation and operation and connection of the Croatian community within Montenegro. The exhibition Bokeljski Hrvatski hrvatski hrvatski hrvatskih hrvatskih hrvats in the framework of the project of the roads of Bokeljski hrvats in which many names from Croatian public life are taking part today, whose origin is the wolf from Boka Kotorska. It is the continuation of a long-standing project that brings together two countries and two peoples, and also supports the preservation of the rich cultural heritage of the Bokela Croats. I would like to point out to this occasion once again that the Republic of Croatia truly cares and supports the Croats in Boca Kotorska through all its projects and stronger ones that preserve and strengthen the identity and overall Croatian, Croatian body in Montenegro and of course remain on their property for centuries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u57941	Thank you. The next club of MPs will be that of the Homeland Movement, and a respected representative of Ruzica Vukovac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u57998	Thank you. Respected, trends in the world market today separate countries into two more distant blocks. One is a large force that produces excess food and distributes it worldwide through trade chains. The second block makes up an ever-increasing number of poor countries where the production of their own food is being dried up and they are slowly being brought into a food-dependent position. This phenomenon is happening because we have witnessed food globalisation for the last 10 years. Food production is centralized and small local producers are forced out of the market. And where is Croatia? This crisis has brought out all the worst. We are witnessing that the current food supply system that has sought to globalize unsustainable food. This concept when we talk about food as the most important need of man is inappropriate and has left enormous effects on the climate, on biodiversity, and on human health. When a pandemic like this occurs, supply chains become questionable. Covid-19 has marked most of his life globally over the last two years. We were wondering if the virus came in between us when the resident Chinese roasted and ate an infected bat or if a bad American billionaire infected the population so that he could chip it and make money on vaccines. I'm getting deeper and deeper between those who have been vaccinated and those who refuse, and there we've found an additional reason for division, and the main problem is as if we're missing it undetectablely in front of our noses. Where does food come from on our tables, and what happens when it stops coming? In the last 10 years, we've been used to anything we need to jump to the mall. Small food stores have failed, the spectrum is bought once a week at the mall, but such a situation could change in one day. For example, we see what can happen to the food supply of a pandemic. Shop shelves are locally empty, and some display plastic fruits and vegetables. Croatia has also been placed in a position dependent on external food suppliers, and it is only a matter of time before one of the big players slows down or stops the food supply on our market because of some richer state. We were all witnesses when Croatian vaccine suppliers oversold our ordered quantities and probably sold them to someone who paid them more. Let's not naively think it's not going to happen to us and only then will it be too late for most. One part of the young generation is aware of the need to support locally produced food, but it is still easier to go to the mall for import products. Does any of us actually wonder what we're going to eat when some new crisis makes import food get to us? People living on earth are the easiest to notice the emergence of devastating climate change. We may be slightly older to notice snow climates, but also climate extreme or sudden climate change. He will not see only one who deliberately closes his eyes, a tornado in the Czech Republic, floods and droughts in Croatia, too hot winter, cold in the late spring, and summer without a drop of rain. There have been phenomena like this before, but not so often and so abruptly. The plant world that forms the basis of the food chain has not had time to adapt to climate extremes, and some of our important agricultural cultures have been having a hard time bearing fruit in recent years. Thus, the impact on the price of livestock, and on the livestock sector in general, is already devastating. These are all phenomena that should cause concerns about national food production. And when you add the pandemic to an unfavourable climate, interrupted supply chains and the collapse of Croatian agriculture, then you need to take a deep breath and imagine what a future awaits us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u58123	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS will now speak the esteemed representative Marijana Puljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u58124	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Here today I wanted to talk about another topic, a law that will soon come before our assembly, a road traffic law that will force our doctors to report to all those they think are unable to drive, so a bad one law. However, driven by today's numbers and today's measures here from this pay phone, the only thing I'm going to say is actually order people to be vaccinated. I don't know how many more people need to die that you dear citizens, here's to stopping all of us together from philosophizing about whether the vaccination is good or not. Vaccination as a medical procedure is the greatest achievement in medical history. So far, it has saved millions of citizens and the inhabitants of this globe. Up to today, 9400 people have died in Croatia. Urla's pregnant one, the other's in bad shape if she didn't die this morning. A 25-day child died, not months, not years, from 25 days. How many more of these deaths should we finally regain consciousness and start working on the welfare of here and our health and the health of our neighbors, friends, family. If you don't want to listen to our Staff, if you don't want to listen to our scientists, if you don't want to listen to our doctors because you don't trust them that sometimes and lack of trust and justifiable. Listen to scientists and doctors from Denmark, from the Netherlands, listen to the government and the government of Spain. In Spain, here's my sister, and this morning I'm texting her about the state there, living there, married, living in Barcelona. Eighty-three percent cleavage of all and children over 12 years of age. So the total cleavage is 83%. They don't have any measures, but they wear masks in closed spaces, they don't have any other measures. The measures have also abolished Denmark, the Netherlands. People want to go back to normal life, come to yourself and finally realize that you need to be vaccinated. The state is now forcing employers to pay the cost of testing, so those who are not, employees of those who are not vaccinated. So every two days they have to be tested and the state transfers that cost to employers. What's gonna happen? Whether employers will pay that cost or they will say if they can't, so they'll start handing out cancellations. Is that what we want for ourselves? So here today almost 7,000 new cases died 36 people, a share of positive 46%. If we want a normal life, we'll all be vaccinated, or we'll all get covid sick, so whoever survives survives survives. So there's no third.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u58125	A colleague of Sacic's raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure? It is very unusual to raise a breach of the Rules of Procedure while taking a stand. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u58126	Yes, I agree with you. I had to, Mr. President, because my colleague hurt the Rules of Procedure in a section that offends the common sense of Croatian citizens. And in that sense, I have to react.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u58127	A colleague of Sačić, based on Article 239. I give you a warning. You're the one who hurt the Rules of Procedure, too?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u58128	Well, I agree, so Article 238. No one here is some kind of anti-vaxer, but you would expect from a colleague of Pulak who comes from a liberal party to at least stand up against a covid certificate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u58129	Okay. On the basis of Article 239, I give you a warning. On the basis of Article 240(1), I give you a reminder by taking away the words.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u58174	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, respected by the Croatian public. Here is behind us one week is unusual, and in fact this week we Croats and Croats and citizens of the Republic of Croatia have not had the opportunity to experience in a political sense from World War II, so it has been more than 70 years to imagine someone here in the Croatian Parliament, speaking here in the Croatian Parliament, causing fascist paroles, segregation, discrimination, that a group of citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are more than 50% said to be completely banned from her regular life by the Constitution, past the law, past any procedure, past logic, past common sense. My colleague Mrak-Taritash had imagined calling for the devil and Satan for this payphone, so that all such people who are now in the vaccines should actually be killed by hunger, isolated, put somewhere in a barbed wire, put some sign of recognition to them in public that others, I guess, are out-of-town, übermenschi by reputation for Hitler's racial laws could be properly avoided as at the time of the Holocaust by our brothers Jews. It's allowed by someone in this Croatian Assembly, my dears. I'm sorry I wasn't physically that day. I was officially in Varazdin. Well, I'd do something to at least cause her any injuries to the Rules of Procedure to be lifted, and here the present chairman and all her colleagues and colleagues, I don't know who I see they all kept quiet. We can't keep quiet, dear friends. I know that my friend Miletic will never be silent, that he will be louder, smarter, more reasonable, more rational than I am in defense of these views. But as a Croatian defender, I can't be any different than this public, open and honest because we defended everything in the 1990s equally, regardless of nationality, regardless of whether we were Croats, Serbs, Muslims, religion, confession, social status and today to experience that a largely elected colleague here is privileged, so we're all privileged to be chosen by the people to protect their interests, that she's taking over in NDH, Fascist, Nazi, segregated, apartheid principles that now is the time to be consecrated yet, but I won't be counting on her, she doesn't deserve that I am now and not because I'm spending on her, so we're going to condemn it. And Croatian citizens, be assured that in this Croatian Parliament they will always have their protectors, their lawyers, you who, for various reasons in accordance with the Constitution, protect your interests and we will be the voice of your reason here because everything that is now happening in this division of the vaccinated-unvaccinated, has no basis in science but most in politics and if it is politics, then we must pledge that our views have a certain legitimacy and that we defend our views and interests on the basis of different, available, scientific studies. Also, this week we had the opportunity to witness an unheardly once-unrecorded conflict between the president of the state, commander-in-chief of the Armed Forces and the minister, a conflict that was not meant to be, and at the end of this week we had for the first time heard one sacrilegious, blasphemy, one evil that someone dared to say after 30 years of the Vukovar tragedy "Fuck you Vukovar", pardon the expression. Imagine what kind of society we live in? So di, where is the police, where is the Agency for Electronic Media, where is Minister Koržinek, where is Prime Minister Plenkovic that someone said "Fuck you holocaust", where would you end up?- I'm sorry. The whole of Croatia would be a left-wing phalange on its feet. It's embarrassing! Croatian citizens, be careful who you choose!
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u58175	Thank you very much. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of the Voice, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u58176	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, I think that my colleague Sacic, with all due respect and freedom of speech, has deviated from the general rules of conduct in the Parliament of prescribed articles. 238, that's something that shouldn't be happening here, calling one of our colleagues who's spreading fascism. All of us in Croatia have the right to live, what we've been living for the last year and a half is half life and half life we'll live all Until we take off our masks and start moving normally, and the only prerequisite for that is vaccination. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u58177	Thank you very much. It's very difficult for me to bring any judgment here, I must admit. By listening to my colleague Sačić, of course I had my thoughts on his very difficult words, I wasn't here, I wasn't, as you know, I wasn't chaired, I wasn't even physically present, I don't know what my colleague Mrak-Taritash was saying, the fact is that my colleague Sacic used very heavy and serious words, it's hard for me to make this moment to make a decision whether the injured Rulesman or not was injured because I just didn't hear what was said then. So here it is, I'd leave this thing open, of course I won't give you any warning. I've been thinking about giving my colleague a warning, but on the other hand, it would be wrong to give a warning about something I don't know what I didn't hear or what I didn't testify to. Anyway, we're moving on. On behalf of the SDP club will now speak the esteemed representative Martina Vlasic Iljkic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u58309	Thank you, Vice President, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. The proposal for a new Social Care Act which lasted until this Wednesday highlighted as much as 1809 comments in the public consultation, showing exceptional activity and dissent of the profession with the proposed draft. For months, we have also been warning from this pay phone that the reform cannot be implemented without consensus with those who have to implement this reform on the ground. The ministry has been cheating on the public for months, talking about a high consensus but the real state is that the billmaking working group did not support the draft law, the chamber of social workers and the Faculty of Social Labour at the Faculty of Law in Zagreb is strongly opposed to the reform of the welfare system, which is obviously supported by the minister himself with the co-workers. This government has shown how it feels about the welfare system when it abolished the ministry and attached the system to work and pension insurance. Ignorance of the system could only lead to what we are witnessing now, which is to destroy the work and dignity of supporting professions, inventing jobs whose job is far from the essence we need, which is work on the ground, working with our families in need in the local community. The proposal plans to abolish social care centres, set up social services, social care academys, issue of family centres, introduction of manuals, and not single out jobs that absolutely have nothing to do with social work. What is really special in this whole situation and crossing the party frameworks is the unique position of all critics of this law, and I talk a lot with colleagues and colleagues from the profession, teachers and we all order only one thing. Ministers, return the law to the task force and post a consensus. You are responsible for every child who today has no accommodation capacity, for every family in difficulty, who does not get or will not receive a service as the profession requires for any elderly person for whom there is no accommodation capacity. We have burning problems in the system, the pandemic of the coronary virus has left consequences for the mental health of children, impoverished families, and we are dealing with and investing huge resources in an organization and system that is our own purpose. Citizens are getting worse, we don't have accommodation facilities for children, for older people, and that's what this ministry isn't about. One example of the poor planning of this ministry that I'm going to make here is, for example, the introduction of national compensation for older people. When we warned that the fee would not have its users because such a fee already exists for people without receiving it and it is called guaranteed minimum fee. And what did we see this week? According to the 2021 financial plan, national compensation for older people is planned to amount to 134 million 210 thousand kuna. We now see that the index of execution was 34, or an estimated reduction of funds for as much as 88 million kuna, and the new plan amounts to only 46 million kuna and 110 million. Our proposal is to strengthen the social care centre, in a way to ensure working conditions in existing centres, to provide users with available services by discharging workers from jobs that have nothing to do with the application of social work methods. The ministry should certainly strengthen cooperation with the field, increase public debates in a society with an interested public where the public will draw closer to the behaviour of professional workers. Prevention work should be strengthened through family centres as well as by increasing inter-resorship cooperation with the health and education sector. The existing non-institutional services need to be increased, adequate accommodation facilities provided in existing centres for the provision of services in the community, and family homes should not be abolished but provided support in work, regular monitoring and increase quality of accommodation. Every local community is different, every welfare center has its burning problems on the ground. And the ministry is that it needs to provide full support and respond to user requests, and the announced centralisation of the system and the removal of the centre is impossible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u58372	Since it is one hour, as usual, we will now stop at this point and move to deliver a position on behalf of representatives clubs and independent representatives and the first one on behalf of the Social Democrats Club will speak to the respected representative Romana Nikolic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u58373	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Parliament, my distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. On today, the World Roma Day is marked. At its meeting on 24 May 2012, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Opinion on support for the international initiative to establish on 5 November the World Day of the Roma Language. The Roma came from India and despite the difficult journeys of life that have passed over thousands of years, they have managed to preserve what is most valuable, their language, their pride. A people who lose their tongue cease to be a people. Members of the Roma minority are the most endangered group of society in Croatia and are faced with a number of prejudices, often the entire Roma community continues to be attributed to unwanted and bad qualities, often exposed to hateful, colossal and challenging public speech, even promoting impatience and calling for action towards them, Roma. We will not forget in 2019 when a protest for a normal life was organized in Međimurje against Roma, which are "all but human" with the exception of individuals who have managed to socialize and integrate. Despite all prejudices, discrimination and poverty, the growing number of Roma and Roma who are successfully educated, employed and created a quality and dignified life. Their successes and achievements are evidence that stereotypes are unwarranted and that with quality education and little support of society, it is possible to overcome all the hardships and obstacles the Roma face during their lives. And in order to increase the number of positive examples, it is necessary to include each Roma child in early and pre-school education and primary education programmes and to give them the feeling that they are equal and respected members of society. In June 2021, the government adopted a national plan for Roma inclusion for the period from 2021 to 2027, which I hope will not be left with just one more of the strategic documents adopted by the Government, which will be a dead letter on paper, but a wheel towards achieving the Roma's goal of full integration into Croatian society. I hope that during this period Croatia will become a country in which impatience will be reduced between members of the Roma national minority and the rest of the population and discrimination will be eradicated. I also hope that Roma children will be educated in integrated educational institutions and Roma will be employed, allowing them to stop most of them living in poverty. I hope that Croatia will also be a country where every Roma child will feel a full member of the community whose relationship with institutions will be marked by mutual trust and cooperation. Finally, I would like to congratulate all the members of the Roma Nationality on the World Roma Day. You have my full support in fulfilling your dreams, and I want you to stop being a discriminatory and invisible group of society once and for all, and to be viewed with respect and as equal members of the community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70474	We have a request for a break, distinguished representative Marija Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70475	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club to ask a key question along with the Croatian public. Do we want the Prime Minister to deliver travel orders from Finland? Do we want a law that will make him do it quickly and that we all have access to that information? Well, that's what we're talking about here today. The right to access information may sound dry to someone, but it is a key anti-corruption mechanism that will allow the question of the public authority's body. And that is why it is necessary to regulate his conduct within the law so that the information is available, fast, transparent and clear to everyone. Unfortunately, however, this legislative proposal is not the case since we are aware that this is a key anti-corruption mechanism we have sent our own legal proposal that would really enable all of us in practice to get information, and thus reduce corruption in Croatia. So I will very specifically say what needs to be done within this law so that it will be acceptable to us. Any request must have a solution with a complaint. The Commissioner must have the authority to impose administrative fines on public authorities, he must have a tool to punish those leaders who do not give us information. Otherwise, his powers are a dead letter on paper, and all the commissioners have warned you about it long ago, and you haven't done anything. The decision-making deadline cannot be extended to 60 days because we do not have quickly available information. If you do not accept these changes, you will show that this law is actually a dead letter on paper and that you are not really ready for changes that would reduce corruption in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70476	Okay, we accept, we approve, but we will continue to comply with the Rules of Procedure. Today's agenda, the first item is: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the right to access information, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 199 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 199. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of HS. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Information, Information and Media. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Secretary of State Juro Martinovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70477	Dear Vice President HS, esteemed MPs and MPs. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the right to access information is harmonising the Croatian legal framework with the acquis, the EU Directive 1024 of 2019, and the Directive speaks of open data and reuse of public sector information. In addition, this proposal proposes to amend and supplement certain provisions of the law in order to remove the observed shortcomings in its application. Access to information is one of the fundamental constitutions of guaranteed rights, an important pillar of democratic rights and a democratic standard. This proposal defines new concepts such as standard authorisation, open data, anonymous, dynamic data, research data, high-value data sets, reasonable investment returns and responsible persons. The obligation to publish dynamic data for re-use shall also be determined immediately after the collection of obligations to publish high-value re-use data sets and the research data obligations which are financed by public funds and already publicly available through institutional and thematic re-use repositorys. In addition, this legislative proposal lays down that, at the request of re-use, education institutions, scientific research organisations and research funding organisations are not required. Then companies in which the Republic of Croatia or its units of local and regional self-government has or may have a direct or indirect dominant influence on the basis of their ownership, financial share or on the basis of rules governing the company and which carry out some of the activities relating to the gas, thermal energy, electricity, water economy, transport services, airport and river ports, postal services, oil and gas extraction, as well as research or extraction of coal and other solid fuels in accordance with the law governing procurement, followed by which they act as public service operators, public rail and road transport, air carriers and shipowners. Information not subject to re-use shall be provided. The legal papers I'm introducing are about the following things. Information held by scientific research organisations and organisations that finance research including organisations established for the purpose of transferring research results unless the information relates to research data. Information which is not permitted or limited to protect sensitive information on the protection of critical infrastructures as defined by a law governing critical infrastructures. Information on the ownership of those companies which are made outside the scope of the provision of services of general interest prescribed by law or other regulation and which relate to activities directly exposed to competition and which, in accordance with public procurement rules, are not subject to public procurement rules. This legislative proposal defines more precisely the concept of a responsible person, according to the existing definition by which the person responsible is the person in the body of the public authority whose conduct or failure led to a violation of the law. Since the practice of infringement courts has led to different interpretations and applications related to the identification of the head of the body’s responsibility, this proposal proposes to establish that the person responsible within the meaning of this law is the head of the body or person authorised to represent and represent the body of the public authority. In addition, the Art is changing. 16th century 3 relating to information on the availability of public funds. The applicable law provides that information on the availability of public resources is made available to the public without carrying out a proportionality test unless the information presents a classified information. In order to prevent the exploitation of public authorities in the search for a mass of data without questioning the existence of public interest, the draft law proposes to clearly identify the types of information that must always be made available to the public without carrying out a proportionality test, which is a personal name, name, if it is a company, the amount and purpose of the funds unless the information represents a classified information or can be limited by the basis of other grounds of the prescribed articles. 15 of this law, and further and more extensive information is carried out in a test of proportionality and public interest. In order to ensure the legal protection of users in cases where public authorities informs users that the same information has already been obtained, that information has been made public, that it is made available to the parties in the procedure by means of a regulation, that the submission is not considered a request for access to information, the applicant has the right to declare an objection to the notification, and that the provisions of the law governing the general administrative procedure apply to the submission and the proceedings under appeal. In addition, the deadline within which the Commissioner is obliged to adopt a decision on the appeal from 30 to 60 days from the date of submission of the orderly appeal in order to avoid the initiation of the court proceedings for the silence of the administration and the collection of the costs is proposed to extend that time limit to 60 days and to bring it into line with the general deadline laid down. 121. The General Administrative Procedure Act. The issue of submitting the HS report is also addressed. The adoption of these amendments confirms that, in addition to the report on the implementation of this law, the Commissioner shall submit HS and other reports when the HS so requests instead of the so far a provision to which the Commissioner submits HS and other reports when it considers that it is necessary. In order to ensure the continuity of the performance of the duties, the matter of the replacement of the Commissioners shall be addressed. It is proposed that the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of HS, on a proposal from the Commissioner for Information and with a preliminary opinion from the Committee on Information, Information and Media, determines one of the officials from the Commissioner's Office. The official will replace the Commissioner for Information in cases where the Commissioner is prevented from performing his duties for periods shorter than 6 months, and in the transitional period following the end of the term of office of the Commissioner until the appointment of the new Commissioner. This legislative proposal will improve the right to access information, improve issues related to the publication of data intended for re-use, and ensure continuity of the duties of Commissioners. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70478	Here we have the replicas, the first respected representative of Nikola Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70479	Dear Secretary of State, therefore, in democratic states, effective access to information is one of the basic tools of government supervision, but also tools to fight corruption. We know that in Sweden, the minister resigned because she bought socks at the expense of taxpayers' money, and we have information from the citizens. Here's what my colleague Selak Rasudiæ Finland mentioned, but Finland is not the only case. We have a case of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs where travel orders from Australia have been declared a state secret. So, and that's just saying that actually the party convicted of corruption has no real will to strengthen the authority of the Commissioner for Information and create a mechanism that will enable citizens to have information. So besides sitting here, there's Ackar from Velika Gorica, he doesn't deliver any information to his city councilmen, the presidents of the city districts, so that's your modus operandi, and you obviously don't want to change it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70480	Do you have an answer? There isn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70481	Dear Representative Grmoy, I agree that this important democratic tool for fighting corruption is what I said on behalf of the government in this opening statement, and with this introduction of yours, I agree, so everything else is an observation angle. So I believe that this law is highly balanced, that it is in line with European democratic practice, that it does not lag behind its standards and principles than therefore some standard that the EU has, and anything else could talk about implementation, whether it is always effective until the end, that is, the thing that we always do better, that we make stronger efforts to make it even better.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70482	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of Kresimir Ackar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70483	Well, here's the thing, even though the secretary of state has already responded, the breach of the Rules of Procedure concerns Mr. Grumoya. Falsely, the Rules of Procedure have been injured, absolutely all the information City Councilors in Velika Gorica must get within the legal time limit, and you can check it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70484	You haven't called on any of the members of the Rules of Procedure's injuries, and then, otherwise, it was your replica more and you get a warning. The next replica of the respected representative Andreja Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70485	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, you say this is a alignment with the eu Directive of 20 June 2019. Now, you have received a series of proposals and remarks from the Commissioners for Information whose duty it is under the law to pass proposals to improve the existing law and now the Commissioner has made a series of proposals, most of which have been rejected with an interpretation that a broader debate will be conducted and more extensive amendments to the Law on the right to access to information. I think why you didn't now go into these necessary changes but only as a alignment with the EU directive, although you had objections to that, why did you not at least listen to the Commissioner for Information who submitted proposals to improve this law among other things and warn about your annual reports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70486	Dear MPs, therefore, either deliberately speaking wrongly or disobeying what I read or did not see a legal proposal. In addition to harmonising with the EU directive, we also edit what the practice has shown, I would say that we are doing this dysfunctionally and in more articles than articles relating to the transposition of the directive. So, what you saw from the public consultation process, so we're legislators, this high house brings it to the finals through two readings. We'll all see what can be done to make him better through these two readings in the law, but the Commissioner for Information was a member of a task force with his expert team, there was a number of other high-level people from a broad social spectrum and the NGO therefore the sector was represented there, we did what we considered to be the best as a proposing at this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70487	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70488	Thank you very much, Art. 238. Secretary of State, I understand what you're saying, but I think you're a little demeaning what I said. I don't mean to say anything on purpose, so I'm reading what's written in the documents that we have. At the end of the line now you've said what I've told you, so you haven't made the changes you need and that have been proposed but you're just doing them. I asked why of this EU directive, it's over 2 years old. past, why at least this bill didn't go into a slightly larger change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70489	And a warning to you because this wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, it was your replica. Next replica honoured representative Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70490	Your government, or colleagues from HDZ, is key to fighting corruption. That's what you say and that's what your strategy says, and that's how it's in theory. But when we get into practice when we start talking about key anti-corruption mechanisms like this law, I don't see a crowd in HDZ lines. Suddenly, the practice of fighting corruption, the law that you've all been drilling into your chest about a few weeks ago is so uninterested. Why you do not want to and did not follow the suggestions that we have made here and whether there is a possibility that what I told you about at the station should be respected in the final draft of the law, which would aim at making the information available quickly, easily, completely and precisely to Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70491	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70492	Dear MPs, I said earlier this was the first reading, so all things are still open, but you have to understand, I want you all to understand I just want to say as a lawyer here it's about opposing goals. It's not the only thing that society advocates that all public sector information is available, so that I can say that they're rolling in the street. So there are other social values that we must protect despite this need to be transparent. And this law is a compromise between those two social needs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70493	Next replica, the esteemed representative of Ruzica Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70494	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, I have prepared one question from which I am giving up after hearing your answer to my colleague, Andreja Maric. So she's really right. In the e-consultation, or in the results that you have presented after the e-consultation, representatives of your ministry find that certain comments cannot be respected for the reason that the subject of amendments and amendments to this proposal of the law is precisely a harmonisation with European directives and regulations, and let's say that e-consultation is not possible within at least 30 or more days because it is not part of the European Directives and regulations. So I'd like to ask you to explain that too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70495	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70496	I mean, I've said everything in these previous responses to the replica and I don't see, I don't see the need to speak on the same subject anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70497	Next replica, honorary representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70498	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I will then open one topic, so you will probably answer that, and that is the subject of a deputy who opened up on the Committee on Legislatives that I was on, where the subject of deputies opened, because the way that is provided for in this law is two readings, so I expect that by the second reading, it will not be possible to implement it. So it's not possible that one committee in this assembly is the one who decides which one is then given the subject of deputies. So they have two options. One option is for the deputy to be a state official, and the other option is that, as in some other laws, the deputy commissioner gives, in accordance with such a way as the Law on Local Regional Self-Government, where the possibility is given to the mayors or mayors that, together with the deputy, those who do not have the names of the person who changes them when they are prevented. I suppose you've been thinking about the option you're going to go into, so maybe you can tell us something about it now in response to my replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70499	Dear MPs, therefore, it is a sensitive area. I have to tell you in the front row that it's been a legal void so far. So that's what we in the existing law that's not very short on, on the social scene we didn't have solved. This task force is on me to say self-initiative but it is a broad spectrum of people who participate in the task force decided to regulate this thing and we have made one proposal as a fruit of our compromises. So, no, we were therefore pressured by desire, and somehow by the public's opinion that we should not increase the number of officials, which would be the legal most elegant solution. On the other hand, the official who would possibly be the Commissioner himself would be asked whether he could have all the powers that the Commissioner for Information has as a person elected by the Croatian Parliament. If the committee could or could not, it would be a legal question if the council passed a law, of course, that the committee could do so. There's going to be a compromise, we're going to do a different solution. along with all of you of this we have now. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70500	Next replica, respected representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70501	Dear Secretary of State, let us clarify and be very plastic to the Croatian public. So we have a commissioner who doesn't react publicly, doesn't protest, doesn't yell from the roofs at the prime minister who still doesn't give information about travel orders in a set of everything that's happened in Finland. We have a commissioner who doesn't react that diplomats have been lurking money in Australia, and now it's being declared a state secret, but I don't know whether or not a neighbor should have two parrots in his apartment, three cats, one dog or not. So let him step out of his bunker and fight for freedom for democratic processes in our society. So do you think the Commissioner should still be more courageous, clearer, and determined?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70502	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70503	Dear Representative, so what I think or colleagues have been working with me on this legal document is contained in this legal document. What you're talking about is some concrete actions that are happening in front of some other bodies right now, these are ongoing procedures and I am not going to answer you as a principled lawyer and I am not going to answer that question.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70504	The next replica is the esteemed Ivana Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70505	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, unfortunately, like many colleagues and colleagues before me, I will find that, unfortunately, by amending this law, we have avoided the further possibility of strengthening the role of Commissioners, even though this has just been requested by different Commissioners through a series of annual reports. So I ask you why you are not adequately prepared to redefine the infringement provisions and open the possibility of sanctioning a body or a responsible person with a fine such as how we can deal with it provided for by the Law on Administrative Procedure on the Implementation of a Solution. This would mean that the Committee on Decision-Making of Conflict of Interest in Cases of its Department of Labour can punish officials financially, but we here are not prepared to apply this same thing to Commissioners, I wonder why, what are we hiding and what are we making impossible?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70506	... I don't hide anything personally, and no one hides anything through this legal document. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I've said it a few times, I feel bad when I repeat it often, but the replicas are of that nature. So, the task force, a broad structure of people from many social segments, more or less lawyers and experts for this authority, and they made this document that the government considered sufficient to refer to the parliamentary procedure. He has passed many parliamentary committees and, of course, there have been objections and similar natures as you do, it is completely legitimate. Finally, the law will be passed as this high house decides and with remarks... Maybe the amendments why not. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70507	Followed by a replica of the respected representatives of Urshe Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70508	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Secretary of State, good day to you. I would ask you nicely to explain to us the simplest possible whether these changes will be possible to obtain from the government a budget in a computerised format such as. Excel plates? We're trying to get it from Mr. Maric's finance minister without success. So I ask you nicely, clearly and simply to answer us if it will be possible? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70509	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70510	I don't know if it's visible from the old legal text, it's visible from these changes that are being introduced, but I'm not an informative and software expert to know how to answer that question in which format the Ministry of Finance and the government publish, publish the budget and whether the tools that citizens have and which you have appropriate and compatible with that form of presentation of these documents, I really don't understand it as a lawyer, so I don't know if it's enough, but I'm sure it's in shape visible, whether it's possible to take it over, you have to ask someone else to be honest.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70511	The next replica is the esteemed representative of William Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70512	I thank the chairman. Dear Secretary of State, Art. Article 16 is amended as well as the rest. In 32nd and says that bodies with public powers operating on the market, the example of FINA, FINA is one such body. These amendments to the law give the possibility to collect access to data collected outside its public authority, however, these public authorities are nowhere in the Republic of Croatia these regulations clearly defined and that will, the Commissioner will publish a list of such bodies. But mostly this is completely contrary to the principle of a directive that goes towards all public sector data, including public companies being available, being open and free of charge.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70513	Answer. Do you have an answer from the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70514	Yeah. I think here, that there's a lot of us on, on, on the stage kicking some stuff. Therefore, transparency is unquestionable with regard to the availability of data, which should be made publicly available by all public authorities, and which are subject to this law as a obligor somewhere 6000. The data necessary for re-use as such and I think that this is the case and therefore that request is submitted to the authorities where such data are found unless they are publicly published. So, this law, this directive, these amendments go to make as much of this data public and available as possible, and what's said about costs only applies to the primary commercial use of these data, if someone wants to do the newsletters of that data and charge them on the other side, then they'll have to pay the real cost that All it takes is for him to meet his demand, not who makes it. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70515	I thank the Secretary of State, you're done. We've got a breach of the Rules of Procedure, an honorary representative giving up, okay. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Here is the esteemed Drazen Bosnjakovic, chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70516	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of HS at the 23rd session held on 4 November 2021 discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the right to access information supplied to the President of the HS by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Committee discussed that proposal on the basis of its competence under Article. 60. The Rules of Procedure of HS as a home working body. The applicant's representative stated that the provisions of Directive 2003/98 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 November 2003 were incorporated in the applicable Law on the right to access information. on the re-use of public sector information and Directive 2013/37 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 amending the Directive on the re-use of public sector information ensuring transparency and free access to public information. By Directive 2019/1024 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 on open data and the reuse of public sector information, that Directive has been amended, and therefore the Law on the right to access information is aligned with that Directive. The bill also proposes to amend and supplement certain provisions of that law in order to remove the observed shortcomings in application. During the debate, it was pointed out that the provision of Article 20 of the proposal to be added to Article 38a should be amended differently. as it is not acceptable for the working body of the Croatian Parliament to determine the deputy head of an independent state body. It is proposed to designate the Deputy Commissioner for Information in the manner in which it is, for example, a designated deputy in the selection process of the deputy vacancy attorney or shall prescribe the authority of the information commissioner to designate on his own the person who will replace him in the cases referred to in Article 38a. Furthermore, it is stated that it is necessary to review the provision of Article 6(2) of the proposal which amends paragraph 3 of Article 16 as it states that certain information will be made available to the public and without carrying out a test of proportionality of public interest unless the information constitutes a classified information or can be limited by the basis of Article 15 of this Act. It is pointed out that such a legal solution must always test the proportionality of public interest and that, when it comes to the spending of public or taxpayers' funds, public interest is involved and there is no need to carry out a test of proportionality and public interest. It is stated that it is necessary in the provision of Article 19 of the proposal to prescribe the Commissioner for Information to the Authority for the submission of the report to the Croatian Parliament when he considers it necessary. It is pointed to the provision of Article 49(1) of the single methodological nomotechnical rules for the production of acts adopted by the Croatian Parliament, and in relation to the provision of Article 20 of the proposal, since it is the addition of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The board is most of the votes, 6 votes in favour and 2 votes abstentioned to support the adoption of this law. Therefore, as the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the right to access information in the first reading, we believe that these proposals should also be analysed and seen what is acceptable and how to answer those questions which are indicated on the board that they are needed once again until the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70517	Thank you. Would anyone else like to take a word from the committee reporter? No, then I'm opening the debate. The first for discussion was registered on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, the distinguished representative Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70518	I don't know if the secretary of state was cynical, but hear that this respectable home is making a final bill, which would suggest that we together will produce the best version of it is indeed entrepreneurship and possibly cynically claim in a situation where we know well, which I must remind you of, given that we regularly submit amendments and counter-proposals, the practice of pure mechanical handlifting. This is always the case, except when it comes to the Law on Reconstruction, which is so bad and unimplementable that then the ruling majority argues with themselves and submits to themselves amendments. Such a confusion in the head usually has a diagnosis, and it is certainly not a credibility and excess to be a parliamentary representative and to pass laws in the country’s most important body. This time I will look very specifically at this legislative proposal because as dry as the right to access information sounds, it is one of the key anti-corruption mechanisms, which is exactly why we have submitted our own counterproposal. I've already asked the opening question, what does the right to access information mean? This means that when an affair breaks out like the way to Finland to have the opportunity quickly and easily, this specifically applies to the media, to those investigative journalists who are investigating affairs, there is information that will determine the final course of this affair, or to see what happened at all. You cannot get that information in Croatia. And that's the problem we face every day. And this access to information is a tool that should solve this problem. In that sense, today is not a very long time around this law. It is a relatively concrete provision at the level of what EU members must accept in their legislation. There is not much to say in this regard about the main nature of this law, which concerns the European Directives' further reception. However, it is a completely different matter when it comes to the provisions of this law that we, as a state, prescribe independently. There are good things, I'll be honest, but very little. On the other hand, one part of the provisions of the law is unacceptable to us, and some legal solutions that we believe must have been part of this proposal are not being regulated at all, and the government obviously consciously ignores them. We at the MOST Club have worked very hard to come up with our own proposal, which includes a good part of the fact that this bill is not regulated by the government, and in things in which we disagree with the government's proposal, we have proposed better solutions. So we'll see indeed, Secretary of State whether what you said was just a rhetorical figure or you're capable of dialogue when it comes to resolving corruption in Croatia. And judging by the amount of HDZ present at the moment when the corruption is dealt with in practice, unlike when it was necessary to comment on the strategy, I wouldn't be sure it was the case. Let's take a look at the problem and come up with a proposal for a solution. First, the long-term process, first of all, I think, or at least I hope that all of us here in the assembly agree that the right to access information means that information must be made available to citizens easily, quickly, completely and accurately. Otherwise, if some of these assumptions of availability are not satisfied, we cannot say that the right to access information exists in a material sense, but it is the right only bureaucratic form which, if it cannot be achieved effectively, cannot be considered subjective to the law as it is seen by our Constitution. After all, they don't have the citizens of time, let's be a little realistic, exorcise every single piece of information, but they need to have the information delivered on their palm, and today, in virtual time, one click of the mouse. Yes, all information from travel orders to detailed budget analysis. We live in virtual time, it's time to take advantage of his advantages. And in this sense, what do these changes of the law bring us? If you look at Article 8 of this proposal amending Article 25 of the Act on the right to access information in the eye, two changes shall be made. First, that the deadline within which the Commissioner for Information must decide on the appeal is doubled i.e. It extends from the current 30 to as many as 60 days. The second major change relates to the possibility or inability to appeal to the Commissioner in the event that public authorities do not decide on a request for access to information by an administrative act or by means of a solution but instead provide the user with information as an incorrect act or notice. This proposal for a law against such irregular acts provides for the submission of an objection and this objection under the General Administrative Procedure Act, which the public authority must then decide by means of a solution to which a complaint may be expressed. As we see both of these small ones, seemingly small changes will make it very difficult and extend the deadlines for the right to access information, and these provisions as such are unacceptable to us and we consider them to be contrary to the purpose of the law. It is therefore proposed to delete paragraph 2 until the second reading in Article 8 which extends the deadline for the decision on appeal. As regards paragraph 1 in the same Article 8 and this object situation, we suggest that a second reading and such a solution be removed, instead of considering possible solutions to this problem with irregular acts. We propose two possible solutions that would be acceptable to us. First, that the law prescribes that any request without exceptional solution is always made against which there is always the right to appeal. This is the solution we proposed in our law. The second proposal is somewhat milder, yet acceptable, and it implies that the law clearly and precisely prescribes the possibility of filing an appeal to the Commissioner and against irregular acts in order to avoid this interstate with an objection which already requires more serious legal knowledge and understanding from the user and that it simplifies our citizens to even rely on the demand for information. And our media who should be able to pass this information on to the citizens. If you have sincere intentions with this law you will accept for the start of these proposals because the purpose and purpose of the Law on Access to Information must not be that applicants and users of information for each and even the smallest information must shoe and miner through institutions often exorcise information with complaints and administrative disputes. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, it's a Croatian reality. Rather, the meaning of the law should be that information is available and made public without the need to be sought by a specific request. If this is not possible, citizens must be given explanations where relevant information can be obtained. Secondly, what I will specifically refer to is the authority of the Commissioner for Penalty. In addition to these discriminatory provisions that make it difficult to access information and extend the deadlines for obtaining information, we are quite uncomfortable that the Ministry of Justice and the Government have not listened at all to our appeals, we are already used to this, but rather to the appeals of former Commissioners for Information who have been warning for years that they do not have adequate legal tools against the head of the body of the public authority who persistently and consciously refuse to supply information and violate the law. What's the matter? What's the problem? It would be best if I didn't explain myself, but I would quote the commissioners who spoke about everything publicly and in the media here in the assembly, so you ignore their appeals. Former Commissioner for Information Professor In the 2018 interview, Anamaria Musa described the problem of criminal punishment, however, in those cases where we manage to launch the infringements, the procedure is long and mostly falling into old age. The changes in 2015 have further tied our hands in this regard because we cannot punish the body but only the leader or other responsible person who very often at the time of the verdict is no longer the leader and everything becomes meaningless. The point is to punish the body in due time, a system that resists the law, not just an individual. That's what the Commissioner for Information tells you. So also current Commissioner Zoran Piculjan spoke on a similar trail in the interview in 2019. The sanctioning must be effective or should not be. So here we have two similar appeals coming from the former commissioner and from the current commissioner. These appeals come from their professional and practical experiences. And this government law in no way addresses the problem of inefficient sanctions for non-information. In our law, we at the MOST Club have proposed that the Commissioner be given special authority to impose administrative fines on bodies which do not provide information and do not carry out the tasks of the Commissioner for Information. This type of punishment already owns our legislation in the GDPR Act, etc. So just something that already exists we need to implement in this case. If you are unable to dialogue on these very concrete proposals that I will continue in the individual debate, then the right to access information is merely a dry flossula and remains a dead letter on paper as an anti-corruption measure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70519	Next is the debate on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representative Club, Honored representative Anka Mrak Taritaš.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70520	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, when we discuss this amendment and the addition of the law, we can discuss it softly, and we can discuss it in a hard way. First and foremost would be extremely good, we have on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament and report on the work of Commissioners for 2020. And imagine, you don't have to have too much mind, experience and everything else that we had the chance to discuss the report first, and then discuss this amendment and supplementation of the law and tie each other to each other if it has something to do with each other. Then through and through the public debate that was and through the discussion on the committees we saw, I will not call it conflict, but the reflection in the opinion between the Commissioners for the right to access information and the promoters in several things where and on the committee where the Commissioner was, where I was, who clearly demonstrated some of his dilemmas and everything else, seems to me somehow to be normal or living in a country where everything is abnormally normal or vice versa that they sat down and talked about and agreed and this is the Commissioner who has a certain experience, who knows what his problems are in law and who would also like to have some provisions that give him some better tools and, absolutely, we are not judges of that so-called. I don't know whether or not it's even thinking, or maybe until the second reading, it's different, but it's the same way to listen to people who do every day with that law what they think and what they need as a tool in that law. Then from the report, when you take the report from the Commissioner for Access to Information, it is clear that 5845 bodies are bodies that are bonds of data delivery, and the law came into force in 2013 and still 414 bodies that have no commissioner. Let's see my people in 2013 the law has come into force, we're discussing 2021, we still have bodies that don't have a commissioner. So there's someone there to talk to until the day of judgment and they won't get any information because there's no one to give it to. So it's this kind of frame and some sort of formal part and that part that should certainly be emphasized. What is the meaning of this law? The point is, the data that our citizens and we are interested in is publicly available, that they can be easily obtained, that they can be obtained in time. Through the Directive and through this amendment, this topic opens up a relationship between transparency and the right to the protection of personal data. But let's discuss one subject that doesn't get in the way of it all together at all. It's, it's budgets, it's public money. We had an official who is no longer among us, who is the former mayor of the City of Zagreb, who is retired and really no need to drag him through this pay phone again and through the public space and customs that the citizens of the City of Zagreb had given. I see your good habits have moved on. Our prime minister from this booth is very often placed in the same way that he gives someone something. He's not giving anyone anything. He is the government's president, such as the mayors and mayors, and manage the budgets. Budgets full of citizens of the Republic of Croatia and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have the right to know how their money is spent, point. It is no longer to be given or taken away. And so the right to know how money is spent is one of the things that clearly must be every Commissioner for the right access to information, and that is, if, to that end, the way in which the budget money is spent by citizens cannot get information, if they can't get information at the right time, then we can still have the law on access to information, we can have everything else, but we're about free of charge. One of the responses to one of the committees said that when, when the debate was held, then it was said that the following year would be a year of proactive publication of data. I'm just curious about what kind of year it's going to be proactive data releases, but I don't know if we should prescribe a special year of proactive data publication, that proactive data publication should have been before, and it should be in the future and we don't have to prescribe any year I don't know what that meant. So I'm not going to repeat the things the Commissioner said and tell him what bothers him in this law and what he thinks should be defined differently. I hope that's settled until the second reading and we won't listen to that one again, I won't say, but one dispute and one reflection. I'm going to repeat some of the things that are technical because you have some things in the law that are relatively and easily possible to solve, but that should be pointed out, so that between the first and second readings it can be defined. One of the things is I asked the secretary of state, and that's the deputy commissioner. So it's clear to me that the Commissioner must have his deputy for a simple reason, a man may be, live in a very, very awkward time, may be sick, may be absent, may be longer on some sort of, some sort of thing, and during that time should be someone else. This idea of not increasing the number of officials, let's understand, but in that force of officials, but okay, but then it should be regulated in a way that is acceptable. We have this kind of innovation in us, so in every law, we have some need to give something new and give something different. I kind of think that this horizontal harmonisation of the law is extremely important, so since we already have a proposal in some law, then it would be a good idea if we didn't want that proposal to be in this too, so we're talking about that proposal that's in the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, and I think it would be one of the moments if we didn't want to have an official to do it, and it seems to me it would be right, but I absolutely leave it to the other, but I'm stressing this for a reason why it would be so, and I expect it to be done, which has been done, which is done, and to think about it until the second reading of the law, because there's time to solve it. The second is the provision of Article 19, i.e. which is referred to the old provision of Article 35(3), which is the amendment which is in this Act, or is now defined when the Parliament so requests from the Commissioner, then the Commissioner may also provide a report on certain other matters. I must admit, I didn't realize until the end why it was changed and why there was a need to change it all together. And the third thing I appreciate is that it's extremely important and extremely important. If the Commissioner for Information doesn't have certain tools in his hands, it's all together, especially if we have these slow processes we have. So it won't help us digitize either, it won't help us if our processes are so slow that they last for years. Why some processes need to last for years I don't understand. But it's absolutely a fact that after all this is over and a certain punishment has to be paid, or the leader, it's already gone somewhere else and everything else. So it must have a tool to work immediately, to react immediately and to have the possibility of really and certain sanctions as they are in some other laws. So it can be copied and I'm talking about this horizontal harmony. Perhaps the time has come for our laws to be harmonised, so when we have one way regulated in one law to try to have it regulated on both 2, 3 and 4, not every time we invent hot water. Well, these laws aren't the author's work so that he boasts that he gave some kind of provision and some other way. So, what he has to have, he has to have a tool to work right now or it's all together we'll have the law, we'll have compliance with the directives, and then some other report, some other commissioner will tell my people, I'm squatting there, I'm sitting there, I'm doing my job tool in my hands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70521	There's a debate coming up. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Homeland Movement of the Honored Representative, Ruzica Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70522	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Therefore, freedom of information, thus and the right to be made available to information owned by public authorities, is one of the fundamental human rights prescribed by the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the Convention on Access to Information and International Contracts, other than the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The law on the right to access information defines the right to access information as the right of the user to seek and obtain information in the possession of a public authority body, as well as the obligation of the public authority to proactively or upon request enable it to access the requested information, but also the obligation of a particular circle of public authorities to include the public in the decision-making process in the context of consultation with the public. That legal obligation is regulated in Article 11. The law on the right to access information. The amendments and additions to the Law were further specified in 2015 in a way that clearly defined public consultation obligations. In this section, the law has been amended in a way that a consensual round of obligations to carry out consultations has been specified the type of acts whose adoption or adoption needs to be previously conducted and the content of the consultation or documents that must be made public at the time of the opening and upon completion of the consultation, as well as the way in which the consultation is carried out. It is also clearly indicated the difference between the implementation of the consultation under the Law on the right to access information and the implementation of consultation under the Law on the assessment of the effects of the rules. The obligation to publish proactively documents to be consulted with the public as part of regular information to the public on the work of the public authority has been established. The authorities of the state administration, other authorities of the state, then units of local and regional self-government and legal persons with public authority are obliged to consult the public in the adoption of laws and regulations, and when adopting general acts or other strategic or planning documents where they are affected by the interests of citizens and legal persons. As a rule, it is about acts that have the character of regulations, as well as general acts and strategic and planning documents when they affect the interests of citizens and legal persons. In relation to the general acts, consultation shall be carried out where binding acts of general application are involved on a specific but not specifically named, therefore, a particular circle of persons or entities affecting their interests, including their rights and obligations. In addition to the laws, regulations and sublegislative acts of the state administration, other national authorities and legal entities with public authority, this includes decisions of representative or executive bodies which lay down rules for the exercise of any obligation or exercise of any right or act of the body towards natural and legal persons. The second category of acts is strategic and planning documents affecting the interests of citizens and legal persons. This means that strategies, planning and programming documents aimed at and defining the development of some policy, activity or development represent documents that need to be consulted with the public, such as the Anti-corruption Strategy, the Tourism Development Strategy, the Croatian Development Strategy, the National Anti-discrimination Plan, the National Plan for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights, etc. In view of the fact that the Law on the right to access information does not provide for the subsidiary application of the provision of Article 11, it states that the exercise of public consultation other than the Internet may be completed by other forms of the general consultation regime under the Law on the right to access to information and specific arrangements should be interpreted in such a way that the implementation of the consultation under a specific regulation which does not conform to the public consultation procedure under the Law on the right to access to information in the basic elements cannot be considered as fulfilling the obligation under the Law on the right to access to information, but is expected to allow online consultation in accordance with Article. 11. This simplifies that the inclusion of the public under specific rules if it is not implemented in accordance with the basic elements of the Law on the right to access information in terms of how to implement the duration of the consultation and the publication of a report on the implementation of the consultation with reasons why part of the annexes received cannot be respected, cannot be regarded as fulfilled by a legal obligation as prescribed by the Law on the right to access to information. The bodies of the public authorities referred to in Article 1 of this Article shall carry out consultations with the public, as a rule, for a period of 30 days. Except where consultation is carried out in accordance with a regulation governing the procedure for assessing the effects of the rules. Public consultation as prescribed by the Law on the right to access information shall take place within 30 days. The consultation may only take a shorter time when exceptional conditions for which it is not possible to carry out counselling within the legal period and in that case, the reasons for the short duration of the consultation are necessary and clearly explained in an explanation with a document to be provided for in the consultation. So, to be clear, this is not an emergency procedure as you misrepresented in the E consultation or in the results of an E consultation of some of the commentators. So the emergency procedure is prescribed by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Extraordinary circumstances may be, for example, the need to meet the conditions for the use of the European Funds or other obligations under the International Treaties. An elemental accident or some other justifiable reason, the reasons. The mere delay in drawing up the draft cannot be considered a valid reason to shorten the duration of the consultation. In other words, the shortened duration of the consultation is not acceptable if it occurs due to unquality body work planning. In the practice of the Commissioner for Information, the problem and the need to repeat the consultation for the regulation, i.e. the act in the second reading or the repeated procedure of adoption, has been observed. The position of the Commissioner for Information shall be that if the content of the final draft or proposal for an act for which the consultation procedure with the public has been carried out in accordance with the provisions of Article 6(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union has been carried out. 11 The law on the right to access information essentially corresponds to the earlier draft rules with the possible additions and amendments resulting from the consultation process and other forms of public debate, which are subsequently referred to the procedure and which do not require the re-implementation of the public consultation procedure. However, if a new proposal or draft regulation is proposed, or provides for new and additional solutions to certain issues that are not previously addressed to the public, which have not previously been given the opportunity to make known to the public so as to make comments and opinions, a new public consultation should be carried out by means of an internet consultation. Furthermore, if the first public consultation has taken so long that circumstances have changed to such a degree that it can reasonably be expected that the public may react differently to certain issues or solutions, new public consultation should be conducted. For a regulation or act preceding the adoption of an impact assessment of the rules, public consultation shall be carried out in accordance with the Law on the assessment of the effects of the rules. During the adoption of the above acts, frequent violations of these procedures are common. The most common are those in which the deadlines for public consultation are shortened. In addition to shortening the consultation process, it happens that no full procedure for assessing the effects of the regulations is applied and we, as advocates, do not receive an assessment form, i.e. a statement of the assessment of the effects of the rules, even though it is defined in Article 14.174. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Resuming all the above, I regret to conclude that the applicant for these amendments did not provide for an amendment to Article 3. 4 which prescribes the duration of public consultation in such a way as to replace the words "in a 30-day rule" with the words "for at least 30 days" and thus prevent the manipulation of public authorities, all in order to ensure the openness and transparency of the procedures for the assessment of the effects of the rules to advocate the position of the public and the interested public when making legislative proposals. It is a completely wrong approach and will not lead us to the desired goal if we continue to deny the shortcomings and this specifically refers to the highest officials in the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70523	The next debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS has a respected representative, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70524	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. An extremely important law and an extremely significant addition to the same in accordance with the EU Directive, which extends the scope of the data available on the one hand, and on the other hand promotes the technology or techniques of accessing that information by the public authorities. I am absolutely sure that this will not be the last change in the time in which we live, possibly if not until the end of this term, quite certainly new changes may follow in the next term because of the dynamic changes in the ways in which they are processed, stored, processed and presented by not only public authorities, the state institutions in general but we all actually produce, generate in different ways, and new forms of smart technologies they process either by storage, analysis, or general presentation. As someone here has already said, and I think it is necessary to repeat the availability of information and information management today are probably in the same rank as the former question of who has the country, who has the available workforce, who has the technology and technology of machines or anything else, for example. a printing machine or possession of a certain amount of money. And it is therefore extremely important that those who have information, who produce information for the general public, make that information available. That means all of us here, all of the government's bodies, if by law for certain reasons it's not limited, and these reasons are based on constitutional provisions or international contracts. The same thing goes for information management. This basically means that each one of us who discusses this law here, or who makes amendments or remarks to this law, will contribute to how much and how this information will be managed, including the Commissioner and the Commission in general. Provisions concerning the time to respond to complaints are a small segment in the information management process. Therefore, on behalf of the Club of the SDSS for the public and for those of us who point out, these are particularly important articles of this proposal to amend the Law on the right to access information, Article 11, Article 12, Article 13, Article 14 and Article 16. Article 11 defines the information that the competent authority is obliged to make available for re-public use. This law and the amendment of this law apply to that very well. To be able to reuse, reuse data that someone needs for different reasons or someone has reason to use them, and new technologies allow it. Article 12 specifically defines the tool through which these, this reuse, will be enabled, which is portals or portals of open data. The Open Data Portal in this sense is not only a legal but information very important commitment put before the government and a very significant means through which each of us, each citizen can actually use and have a window, has a channel, has a door through which he can enter and re-use data generated in different segments of decision-making from public interest and importance to financial decisions by interested citizens, interested research institutions, interested companies and entities of different kinds. What I would especially warn about is that I do not elaborate other articles because my time is passing, is the question of Articles 8 and 20. In the view of the Commissioners and the Commission, Article 8 considers that the deadline of 30 days is too short in view of the amount of complaints and of the risks created by that shortness to the Commissioner and to the Commission to process these data and to respond within the deadline of 30 days, which may increase the number of different lawsuits and burden on courts. I'd be, I understand that argument, but I'd be careful to extend the deadline to 60 days because it's quite a long time. And as this first is an objective reason to think, so this second one can indeed make a request, for example. for a reporter less relevant. If you have something at the right time and at the right moment, then you have it, and if you don't have it, then you don't have it anymore. And for that reason, I think you should consider whether there's a better solution than the one you're proposing. As regards Article 20, which regulates the issue we discussed last night, we discussed yesterday afternoon at the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, whether the Commissioner, whether it is good for the Commissioner to decide on the appointment of his deputy or deputy at a time when he is not performing or prevented or prevented from performing his duty less than 6 months. It seems fine to me, but I am no longer sure that it is okay for the Commissioner or Commissioner in this case to make the same decision after the term of office has expired for him or her to then appoint someone who will or shall propose to the Committee, the Assembly Committee, in this case to the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, someone who will do so with the previous opinion of the Committee on Information and Media. Yesterday we discussed it, the board president said something about it in his report, some colleagues were making arguments of a species and other species, but I think that part should actually be solved differently. The promoter himself had dilemmas about it, he is not sure whether this is the best solution and whether it is entirely in accordance with other laws or not, but me and the SDSS Club see certain risks in that it does not only appear in cases where the time of the replacement duty is shorter than 6 months but also in the time when it ends or when the mandate of the Commissioner has expired. It's supposed to be an HS concern. HS should have the deadlines to do its jobs. Transferring this to the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure is possible and it is in line with the understanding of the fact that committees should play a stronger role in the assembly, and then they can carry out this type of appointment, but I suggest that we discuss it seriously until the second reading before we make the final decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70525	The next debate is on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, respected representative Ivana Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70526	Thank you. Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Today, as it is quite clear, we are discussing the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the right to access information. I therefore welcome the Secretary of State, but I welcome and am pleased to see here and the Commissioner who is following this debate, and I believe that he will also see that many of us have followed his discussions and that we believe that these amendments to the law are not actually responsible for everything he has pointed out among other things. In particular, the long-term application of this law, in particular in the monitoring and monitoring segment of application, as well as the protection of the right to access information and responsibility for violations of the law, and the enforcement of the tasks and decisions of the Commissioner, shows that the space for development exists in a legal solution in order to adequately increase the effectiveness in the exercise of the right to access to information. Here today we have heard what this information is, which is the right to access information and what it means in the development of a democratic country, a country that is fighting corruption, a country that wants to be transparent. I therefore stress that the Commissioner for Information is through his annual reports, and the colleague here stressed that, unfortunately, although it is on the agenda, we have not yet discussed the annual report for 2020, namely the Commissioner pointed to certain weaknesses in the existing normative framework, which indicates a clear and more precise regulation of certain issues. This obligation to install the directive into the law should also be used as an opportunity to remove these particular weaknesses. Did we use that? We at the Social Democrats Club think we're not. Unfortunately, strengthening the role of Commissioners is not resolved again by this law. Here I now hear from the ranks of the ruling structures that we expect further changes to this law may be until the end of this, but surely in the next term. So, although we see shortcomings over and over again, we are always calling for some future changes to the laws in which we will address these shortcomings. As I asked in the replica and now on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, why are we delaying the implementation of certain necessary things? For example, we believe that strengthening the role of Commissioners to the instruments of supervision and efficiency of access to information is necessary, primarily by prescribing the Institute for the Implementation of Solutions and Monetary sanctioning and by introducing a single e-recording agent, which would have both an educational and a supervisory character, while ensuring the uniform treatment of the public authority. In addition, as an instrument for strengthening the efficiency of access to information, a list of public authorities not fulfilling the tasks of Commissioners should be published. That such public authorities have all of us together, we witness this every day, but since there are no sanctions then the leaders of the public authorities can also behave in this way. We also hear here today that information is important to the leverage, that information carries power, so by the way, although it's not the subject of this law I'm asking what position MPs are in HS when the government can't get information through parliamentary issues, through the instrument that gives us the Rules of Procedure of this HS. It goes on a lot, much more than 30 days when we get answers to some of the questions that we need to be able to act as representatives in the Croatian Parliament. For resolution, for decisions by the Commissioner which metrically resolves the requirements to a lesser extent, and in particular solutions which require public authorities to resolve the request within a certain period, and if the public authority does not do so, there is no possibility of using the Institute for the Implementation of the Solution in accordance with the ZUP as a general law. In view of the position of the High Administrative Court on the non-applicability of the ZUP provision to be able to execute the decision of the Commissioner, and to refer users to the submission of a new appeal, a complaint for the silence of the administration or the initiation of the infringement procedure by issuing an infringement order or by the Commissioner to bring an infringement order to the competent court of law that cannot be executed makes the whole process ineffective, unmotivating for users. In no way can he be timely in view of all these circumstances. This leads to the delusion and abuse of systems by individual public authorities. The procedure for implementing the solution should therefore be regulated legally, with the possibility of a solution being carried out by the Commissioner. We believe that it is appropriate to redefine the infringement provisions of this Act and to open the possibility of sanctioning a body or a responsible person with fines according to the provisions of the ZUP on the execution of a solution. I've set an example of how this is done by the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest. In addition, by prescribing and implementing the solution, it would contribute to a more effective exercise of the right to access information since the enforcement decision contains a monetary penalty which is carried out by suspending part of the head of the body’s salary. Furthermore, it is absurd that the data that the body delivers are not verifiable. They are only verifiable in certain cases where the Commissioner becomes obviously the data provided to him at the annual level through the reports cannot be accurate. It is necessary to amend the provisions on the manner of reporting and to prescribe the conduct of a single e-office register allowing authorities to record requests for access to information at the specified stages and content of the entries. This would also strengthen the educational component, but would also strengthen the human capacities of public authorities. We would also like to stress that it is bad that the complaint is delivered to the Commissioner by means of a body of public authority which has decided on the request in the first instance, and in particular without the time limit laid down in which the complaint is to be submitted to the Commissioner and sanctioned for non-compliance within that time limit. The second segment we want to point to is the reuse of information. In particular, key changes include strengthening the quality of data for re-use and publishing dynamic data in real-time, or further limiting the ability to collect costs. Therefore, state authorities can exceptionally charge the border costs and the costs of anonymous. The objective, transparent and confidential criteria which allow a reasonable return on investment are mentioned in the case of data from public authorities and public undertakings. Will these criteria be universal or will each body of public authorities determine separately? In addition, we have some more questions to ask. Will there be an obligation to publish on the central open data portal, which would involve some common standards? Will there be any priorities in opening dynamic data access? In particular to the question of who and by what criteria will determine what is often the update, I will give an example of the Register of Associations of the Republic of Croatia, which is a living being, is changed daily and is headed for 20 counties and the City of Zagreb, uniquely towards the headquarters of the association. On today's open data portal, the data of the register are published in machine-readable form on day 3. Nine. On 21st of that date, hundreds of solutions were made to register changes, which means that the data on the portal are not dynamic at all, nor are they published in real time. Potentially unusable for commercial use. Since the Register of the Association also contains some personal data and data that can be identified by the subject means a person authorised to represent or liquidate, the question of the anonymity of the data or the costs of anonymity for which the registry manager himself does not have the capacity to engage an external tenderer should be raised. We're asking the question, how much will the price of that anonymity be because we have data that it's not a simple and even cheap process? And will it be in some way a disabling for individuals? For the end, although there are, of course, a lot of things that we would like to emphasise, we at the Social Democrats Club believe that in order to strengthen the public consultation institute, it is necessary to specify the deadline for carrying out the consultation for 30 days in order to objectively enable the participation of citizens in the creation of regulations, particularly objective and justified need to cut deadlines. It is also necessary to specify the reason for the reduction in time, but only the duration should not be shorter than 15 days. I remind you not long ago we had an example of a public debate in the Rehabilitation Act that lasted only 7 days So on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, I made a series of suggestions and remarks. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] We will support the amendments to this Law in our first reading and hope that you have heard something from our own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70527	The debate follows on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club of Honored Representative Marin Piletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70528	My colleagues and colleagues, on 5 July 2021, the Institute of Public Finance gave a review of the budgetary transparency of the county, towns and municipalities for the period from November 2020 to April this year. The introduction of this review of the Institute of Public Finance states: "The average budgetary transparency of all Croatian local units expressed by the number of key budget documents is 4.5 of the possible 5 as an assessment. All the counties have published all five requested documents. Cities average 4.7. Municipalitys on average 4.4. Despite excellent averages, however, 8% or 10 cities as well as 16% or 68 municipalities do not publish all three documents for which there is a legal obligation to publish, and even 20% of cities and 31 municipalities do not publish two documents recommended by the Ministry of Finance. Of course, the publication of key budget documents does not mean absolute transparency but is considered a first step towards higher levels of transparency necessary for the constructive participation of citizens in the budgetary process and control of the collection and spending of public funds. That's how it works with the date of July 5, 2021. Today, before us, therefore, the amendments to the Law on the right to access information and, as we could hear from both the proposings and in the debate so far, the key thing is to align with the EU Directive and I repeat the greater openness of the data that public authorities have. What is important for all of us who have a obligation to supply public data is that these data are not charged for those who seek them, but the actual costs of preparation as well as the anonymity are respected and can be charged. So imagine the person who prepares the data, and with everything else has his own regular job, so when you get a request to deliver the data, of course you have to leave your regular job whether it's a local, regional or other body of public authority. What is very important is that, in this proposal, the amendments to the law, so responsibility goes to the head of the public authority, not the responsible person. So we have all appointed responsible persons and they are obliged to deliver information, but otherwise responsibility should be at the head of that body of public authorities. A very important change is that this law includes public authorities such as public companies which are also financed from the money of our citizens either through public administrations, whether through the collection of certain municipal services, so that both those bodies, or those public undertakings that have billions, are covered and that they supply, of course, information that is of interest to the public except in the case which the Proposer has prescribed. Long ago in this house, Ante Starcevic said, who feeds on the bread of the people has an account to be paid to the people, so why not when everyone and the public companies. However, it does not need to be placed with the mind that it is also an existing law from '13. or amendments of '15. largely arranged and enabled therefore the availability of public information. This is no news, this is a alignment with European standards, with European directives, some kind of nomotechnical improvements, of course, and a greater openness of all data. But if we go back to the report or the review of the Institute of Public Finance of July this year, then we should read the following. In 7 cycles, the average budgetary transparency of all local units increased from 1.8 in the first to 4.5 in this last cycle. So I'm going to do it again from 1.8 to 4.5 in the last cycle. The shifts are noticeable in all, say the authors of this review of the types of local units for all budget documents, and this best shows the publication of the budget for citizens from 2015 when it was published by only 1% of municipalities, 1% of municipalities, today in 2021 over 80. I'll say in these discussions so far that it's even a little ugly, and it's certainly sad to hear that this bill of law that completes the existing law is a dead letter on paper. It is a serious insult to all those who prepare with their regular work documents that we must publish. It is an insult, therefore, to all those who prepare that data. You didn't prepare them, you don't know what it means to deliver so specific data and extract from each budget item and provide timely information. Of course it will be given, but it can't be said that the dead letter is on paper when it's not, when we came from 1% transparency in local self-government units to 80%, when we came from an average score of 1.8 to 4.5. It is an enormous leap, it is a commendation and recognition to all people who publicly publish data that should be available, those who prepare public data independently on demand and publish them on all possible sources of web sites etc., etc. So those who have never worked to create public documents when they were not responsible for drawing up the budget plan, when that same public document was not allowed, ensured that it was brought by the competent authority, of course I could say the flat rate, so this law is a dead letter on paper. So knowing the character and the political situation, I don't think they'll ever be in a position like that, but it's not up to me to judge. This is by no means a key anti-corruption mechanism, although it goes towards it. As all those working to prevent and prevent corruption would then feel day and night, analysing, collecting documents if only the Law on the right to access information was a key element and a key factor in the fight against corruption in Croatia. I would say very scarce, very scarce. Therefore, the transparency of public documents, and this is not my assessment but the assessment of the Institute of Public Finance from year to year, are being published, documents are being collected that are more than available to citizens and the public, and the HDZ Representatives' Club will also support these amendments and the addition of the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70529	Next is the debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformists, the respected representative of Darko Klasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70530	Here is the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed state secretary with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Open data that citizens may most often use using Google Maps is the key resources of today's digital era, since it contributes to the creation of economic and social additional values. Public administration collects and processes a large number of data on a daily basis, making it clear that these open public administration data are not personal data that public administration authorities also collect, process and store. These open public data are the basis of open administrations, open authorities and open society. This data, as a kind of new and very valuable raw material, was also recognised by the European Union, which is why the new Directive of 2019 transposing this proposed Law on the right to access information into national law encourages information services at Union level, as well as the single market for information based on the re-use of public sector information. This European and proposed national legislation introduces other than improved data quality for re-use, as well as the publication of dynamic data in real-time and high-value data sets with regard to the re-use of which is linked to the important usefulness for the environment and the economy society. In this respect, HSLS welcomes the rapid introduction of European standars into the area of broad access to public authority data largely made to the proposed amendments to the existing Law on the right to access information. These amendments further establish and develop the concept of public administration which is required for citizens to have access to information of a public nature. It is these obligations that public administration bodies provide for European and national legislation to create new rights for citizens and thus strengthen the position of citizens in relation to government. As Liberals, this makes us extremely happy, which is why we consider the proposed changes to be positive and very welcome. However, we are not satisfied that the proposed amendment did not address the lack of adequate administrative procedural instruments that would enable the effective implementation of the information commissioner's tasks as well as the Commissioner's proposal, based on a broad thematic debate on the expert public. The answer given in the context of the public debate, which is also included in the explanation of this Bill's proposal that this issue is actually delayed for a specific later stage, does not satisfy us for a number of general and principled reasons. First of all, the idea of a certain change being delayed until later changes entails and enables frequent amendments to laws that we assess to a poor and irrational extent, except because quality and concrete solutions have been proposed which the legislator has been informed of in due course and there is no practical or rational reason why such a solution would not be implemented in the context of an amendment to the law that is under way. Secondly, as leaders of the political transparency project and advocates of its acceleration in HSLS, the delay described is seen as a sort of slowdown and a setback of this very positive and on the Croatian political scene rather rare trend in increasing the political rights of citizens and strengthening the position of citizens in relation to public authorities. In particular, delaying the empowerment of Commissioners as a protector of the right of citizens to access information, which has proved necessary on the basis of previous experience with the implementation of the existing Law, represents a delay in the need to strengthen the situation of citizens in the context of improving the exercise of their rights in the field of access to information. This approach cannot be assessed as positive by the legislator and we expect that it will change by second reading in line with the Commissioner's proposals. Finally, the wider and more efficient approach to information becomes one of the fundamental democratic values of the information age in which we live, and without open and transparent authorities there is no open and free society, as well as active and free citizens. Therefore, the issue of strengthening public administration guarantees and citizens' access to information should not be delayed. This guarantee of the right of citizens to access information through the action of the Commissioners represents an institutional life-saving of the openness of data and administration. Otherwise, it's all just a shabby phase. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70531	Next is the debate on behalf of Green-Left Block Representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70532	I thank the chairman. Therefore, the Law on the right to access information is one of the key and one of the first instruments that we had to fight corruption and control in fact the conduct of the public authority body and it came to it and it would not have occurred so quickly that this was not a long-term campaign of civil society organisations gathered in Platform 112, and especially Gong. I want to highlight here the role of civil society in the adoption of this Law because we have two regulations in this country that are above standard and in relation to the European Union directives and that is the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination and this Law here and they are created as a form of pressure of civil society organisations in the process of joining the European Union when they actually agreed to the above standard precisely to achieve the objectives of joining the European Union. Unfortunately, of course later in the implementation, it wasn't like that. However, we were fortunate that so far, the Commissioners of Information were indeed very small, regardless of the very small capacities of the offices they had, and I will say this especially for the former Commissioner, who at first had very little resources and very small offices at their disposal, they nevertheless consistently applied the constitutional principle of the right to access information as well as this Law and in many things actually created important standards for citizens. And that should really be said here in order to know that not only did the legislator create that path, but that those institutions were working and building standards. We now have a proposal to amend and supplement the law, which firstly re-coordinates this legislation with EU legislation and, above all, in this domain of open data and re-use of data. However, this bill is also used to reduce some of the standards we actually had compared to those we have existing law. I'll try to expose it. So other than the availability of information owned by public authorities is one of the fundamental human rights that guarantees the constitution itself, the law is not only that instrument for the implementation of these constitutional rights of citizens but is also a fundamental instrument for fighting corruption and is very often in practice and an instrument for revealing corruption. I will say that many journalists, but also many citizens have just saddened information from public authorities to expose some of the affairs in this society. I will also repeat that, for example, some day, the administrative court has decided that N1 television journalist has the right to access e-mails that the CNB or the governor of the CNB has been correspondence with the members of the fund... the fund in the event of a Borg affair and that's important. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was important to establish that the public interest here was more important and that it weighed on the interests of the institution. So I'm going to say that this was really an instrument to expose many affairs. What we see as good sides of this bill is that public and publicly funded data must be reused for commercial and non-commercial purposes, especially if they can be better quality and can be published dynamically, so in real time. That's for example. What this contributes to is certainly applications for monitoring, for example, geospace data, country, environment, meteorological data, statistical data, and data on and ownership of companies. Let's say a matter of data on companies, real owners, income, profits, etc. are extremely important for the actual monitoring of the country's and individual companies' relations. I have to say, to this day, we have this rudimentary publication, so some basic data on the trade register, and actually if you want to pay for more details, you have companies that, which collect and publish it for free, but citizens themselves can't get to that data for free. What we think is also good is that research funded by public funding, for example, is public publication because it has a great potential for re-use outside the scientific community. We also welcome the fact that data on members of working groups will also be published. However, what we cannot agree with is the proposal for a restriction which the applicant interprets to come from the directive, which says that the bodies of the notified companies are not subject to the application of the directive if they refer to activities directly exposed to competition and are not subject to public procurement rules. The current law on access to information now contains provisions that have a higher standard than this Directive, and compliance with a directive that is always a minimum standard, it is a minimum of jell, it must not be used as a reason for reducing existing national standards, and this is clearly said in the directive itself, so those who already have a standard higher than minimum cannot use the directive as an argument that these existing standards are being reduced, and we seem to be doing so in some parts of this. What we also think is useful is that in the part of the bill that we are not harmonising, we are correcting, existing, that it is useful to define the concept of a responsible person, and this is for the sake of more effective criminal persecution, as well as the execution of the orders of the Commissioner for Information. What we have had so far is a very large number of cases and that the Commissioner for Information has had problems with fulfilling his orders and that very often you know exactly where the Commissioner would actually give citizens, for example, the right to access information very often, and it has to go to a two-stage administrative court to confirm it. I must say that there was also a decision of the administrative court which, despite the administrative court's decision and the power of power, was not carried out, so that's what we had. I have been following the HBOR case and the publication, the publication of the data requested by the HBOR, so we must only strengthen the enforcement of the Commissioners' decisions. So, in almost all the reports so far, we find warnings about this, about the difficulties of carrying out criminal persecution and the defendants of breaking the Law on the right to access information. It is also useful to ensure better legal protection for users of information with a new legal solution to establish that the applicant has the right to declare an objection to the notice received from the public authority, that is important, and to the Commissioner, we agree that in some things we really need to give a longer period than 30 days, and that is because they are indeed capacities in relation to the needs we now have too little. Of course, this could also improve by strengthening the capacity of the Commissioner’s office itself. However, what we are absolutely opposed to is the proposal to carry out a test of proportionality and a test of public interest for more detailed and extensive information on the availability of public resources, so this refers to amendments to Art. 3. 16. which has so far determined that when it comes to public funds that public interest is being judged and that it does not need to be particularly confirmed by a test of public interest and a test of proportionality, for the reason that proportionality is determined when we have a restriction on a right and we are looking at or limiting access to whether it is proportionate to the objective that it aims to achieve. So with these changes you're giving, you're actually suggesting that this information is already abinicio limited and that a citizen needs to prove the interest and proportionality of their publication when it comes to data on public funds. We think we should keep an existing solution that's much better, much better than what we have right now. Secondly, this will increase the burden on the Commissioner's office, because now, for every thing and for what was thought to be a public interest will have to do a test of public interest and proportionality, and here it is, we find it absolutely unacceptable Or we won't be able to support that law if that provision stays this way. [[STAMMERING]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70533	Next is the debate of the Club of Representatives. Dear Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70534	If the leaders of the public authorities were to work as hard on the rights of citizens from the area of their work as they try to hide some information if they do not want to publish it, they invent reasons, Croatia would be a much happier country than it is today. The law on access to information was not accidentally one of the ten additional conditions set by the EU for Croatia to enter, after signing the Accession Treaty, and among them were the selection of the Committee for Conflict of Interest, the Law on the financing of political activities, co-operation with The Hague Court and others, and several other topics that were very important at that time for Croatia. It is no coincidence, therefore, that the Law on the right to access information was among them, I guess by leading to the one who is once burned and smoking cold, because the timing that was then 2011/2012 years ago only received his judicial epilogue a few weeks ago by completing the FIMI MEDIA process. These were the circumstances and times during which Croatia entered the EU. So when HDZ is in power, no prevention measure is good enough and it is not preventive enough, but it is quite certain that any measure reducing the degree of prevention in the beginning is bad. The Law on the right to access information in 2012 was a strong delegation on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In addition to me as minister, there were authorised representatives of Mr Zoran Piculjan – today's Commissioner for Information and Mr Boris Milosevic – today's Deputy Prime Minister. So even today, relatively good at this and a solid team, I have to say. These two were elected by the parliamentary majority to the functions they are now on. So then I expected a little more trust in the work of the Commissioner for Information, but I'll talk about it later. This Law is not, therefore, as counterpart Piletic said on behalf of the HDZ Club a dead letter on paper, but it may be or may become if a living letter on a dying paper is brought in this form. He's got four pieces of his own. One is what the 2019 Directive is introduced and it is not controversial. The other is the one where there's something else being introduced and it's not a directive, it's a little bit controversial. The third is what has not been entered and others have been asked for, and the most important Commissioner for Information is that which is the most controversial. And the fourth is like some corpus separatum. 20 which provides therefore for the legislation of how to replace the Commissioner when he cannot behave his duty and there I evolved a little in terms, yesterday from being an officer, I am now even...to be an official in the manner in which the Law on the Ombudsman was resolved. As regards the part that is therefore changing and not part of the directive, it would look at two things: one is the reuse of data and that is particular data, open data from public companies, and we believe it is necessary to ensure the reuse of public business data in open format, because part of public companies played a very important role in corruption cases. The second part, therefore, concerns public funding and public information, which is that public interest must be questioned again, so these two, and we do not support the two provisions. We are neither luckiest nor with a longer deadline to resolve complaints, and I think that Pupovac, we are on the same track as my colleague Pupovac said that therefore respecting the need to protect the state from the possibility that because of the excess of the deadline that the Commissioner considers to be subjectively too short to possibly extend this deadline, but if the Commissioner were to get 2 deputies who are officials then there is no need to extend that deadline because then the three can solve this within 30 days. As for the part about his deputy's election, so we said, let it be as for the Commissioner, for the Attorney General. And now what's most interesting. I think this is the only or only one of the few cases in which someone who's on duty wants to work, wants to do his job the way he thinks he should and the government doesn't. In particular, the only criterion if we support these amendments to the Law will be whether to allow the Commissioner for Information to impose his own penalties as the Committee for Conflict of Interest or not. So, is this going to be the law on accessing the pocket of those who deny information or not, because the method in the pocket is the most efficient method that public authorities leaders understand and then they will carry out their own test of proportionality whether they want to pay the fine or not, or not to pay the penalty but to publish the information. And for me, there's only one criterion for someone who's decent in his duty, and that's just that by not publishing the data he's asked for, and who's ordered him to make more money than he's paid for, or to be a little bit more plastic, he's going to steal what he would normally pay for. It's the only criterion for me, I don't have any other dilemmas for you. The government has in its track record euthanasia, castration or death of institutions to prevent the fight against corruption. This has already been seen in the Committee for the Conflict of Interests and their famous conduct under Article 5. They acted on Article 5 for years, the courts confirmed that until the case of Andrej Plenkovic came, then the courts suddenly changed practice. And then we wonder why citizens don't trust the independence of the judiciary. It was fairer that the Assembly said by its amendment to the law that the commission could not act in accordance with Article 5. Now that kind of euthanasia, castration or death is trying to expand to the Commissioner for Information, or to be a little lighter. So, when it was found that certain powers could be given to the Commissioner for Information when he asked for it, when he put it in the reports proposed by the Croatian Parliament, the government did not put it in the draft law in the first reading. Among other things, it is not part of a directive or part of these amendments, but it may be, may be, part of the final bill. So, to express myself a little vividly in the image of one thinker from the beginning of the 21st century, first soap then perfume. So the soap in this case would be the right Commissioner to punish and that then fellow Miletic has no dilemma about what he is doing. He does what the law currently prescribes, which is to say you have to publish, and if not these will go to court and then the court does so when it can build trust. But if the commissioner could tell you if you don't get one, two, five thousand kunas of fines and you're complaining to the court, but he pays and complains, then the official would consider whether he would deny or publish any information. So I'll finish with the current comparisons. We have the opportunity to show this law in another reading whether we are entitled to access information is a significant constitutional right, whether we believe in transparency or not, and our lacmus paper will be part of whether the Commissioner will be able to punish directly so that these are complained whether the court returns them or not? Will the Commissioner therefore be a living fire or will he remain, and today is the popular word of the cigarette? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70535	Following individual debates, the first respected representative is Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70536	Thank you very much. We agree that access to public information is an important mechanism to ensure the responsible and effective functioning of the public authority. The more information and documents are published, the less corruption. The exercise of this right brings about transparency and openness of the body and enables the inclusion of users of the right to access information and in the processes of democratic supervision of institutions and to decide on various important issues of individual and social interest. It is very important that information is made available proactively on the website of the body through the publication of open data, insurance of public work, consultation with the public, but, of course, it is possible to request access to information and to file an appeal to an independent body but also to what the colleague has previously mentioned penalties for those who do not provide timely information. However, as the Commissioner for Information reported in one of his reports, the right to access information is unfortunately not yet sufficiently recognised or used by the citizens themselves. They should therefore be educated, encouraged to do so not only from the Commissioner's office but also at local levels. This is an all-inclusive public interest, and then a little more education should also be determined for councillors in the bodies of units of local or regional self-government and schools, colleges, so through civic education, media. So the importance of the media, September 28th, is the International Day of General Rights for Access to Information. During 2019, only 38 educations, 34 for officials, leaders and executive officials were held, and only 4 for users. I don't think that's enough. According to a report on the implementation of the law for 2019, 5,808 bodies are reporting bonds, however, some 7.9% even had no information on the information officer, it is a slight shift compared to 2018 when it was 9.6% and we are awaiting a debate on the report for 2020. I remind you that the date of entry into the procedure is 1.4.2021, we haven't discussed it yet. So we need to criticise our meeting president who puts it on the agenda. I have already talked about this harmonisation with the EU Directive since 20 June 2019, and how I spoke in the replica means why there has been no broader changes to the law and why they did not, and why the remarks of the Commissioners for Information have not been respected and that we are going to make some kind of a broader change. As regards the duration of the public consultation here, it is required that it should normally take 30 days, however, to stand by words of no less than 30 days. And if there is some legitimate need and a requirement to shorten the deadline, then that should be defined specifically and that should not be shorter than 15 days in any case. As regards the Deputy Commissioner, Article 38a is disputed. You've already got that on the board of objections and solutions, so here's what you'd like to underline. In accordance with Article 19 of the The Commissioner submits reports to the Croatian Parliament when the Croatian Parliament asks him to do so and is deleted when it is deemed necessary. Why don't you just leave each other? In this way, even in some ways, the importance and powers of what the Commissioner for Information might actually inform us. Furthermore, Article 10 of the very interesting government of the Republic of Croatia encourages public authorities to create and publish information, and in fact, the government itself does not hold deadlines. We can all testify here that our representative questions, not to receive an answer within 30 days but even a few months, and many unfortunately wait a year or not to receive any valid information. I would also draw attention to the importance, of course, of this Law on the right to access information but also of the Data Protection Act. Because when the information contains personal data then in each case it is necessary to determine whether the right to the protection of personal data is respected, and also whether access to information is actually obtained. And here's the thing again, I'm kind of stressing that all these remarks you've heard on the board, but even now during the debate, and that a little bit more work is being done on education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70537	Here are three replicas. The first is a respected representative of the Rose Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70538	Thank you. Dear fellow Majic, in your presentation, I see that you have detailedly read the ministry's answers to the comments delivered in the e-consultation. So, some of the answers are indistinguishable, some are incorrect. But what worries is that more and more often, it actually corresponds with the findings received. So neither was the comment, nor was it rejected, nor was it explained, but it simply stood to the knowledge. What do you think is behind it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70539	Thank you very much. I've really read this law in detail and the counseling and the previous laws, so I agree with what you're saying. Well, that's actually in a way, and I don't know what I'd say, maybe demeaning the proposer on everything that's been pointed out to them. So, noteworthy of this, among other things, what the Commissioner for Information has given here on several pages has made concrete and excessive suggestions to improve the existing law and then says yes. Well, here's what's going to be in some broad discussion. We'll discuss it. So then he mentions the national recovery plan and resilience in 2021 to 2026. I mean, it's the end of 2021. Why didn't it go into some kind of broader change? And what I'm not accepting is what I'm saying in some ways is actually disrespecting and demeaning what is most often proposed with good intentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70540	Followed by a replica of the respected representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70541	Dear MPs, I have one question that is not directly related to this law, it's about the GDP and the doctor's secret. But it showed up last year when we were in lockdown turned out to be a big problem. In fact, there was a family that we had a patient in the hospital. At the same time, the whole family is in isolation. No one can go to a doctor, but at the same time they can’t get any information on the condition of the patient’s current recovery or recovery. And it was constant. It took about two, three, five months for families who had been ill in hospitals to get absolutely no information. Since you worked at the hospital and worked at the covid department, did you have cases of family complaining about the fact that they couldn't get any information about it?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70542	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70543	Thank you very much. Well, that's what I was saying in some way and I was saying that on the one hand you have the right to access information, on the other hand you have an obligation to stick to the GDP. We're usually at the hospital the happiest when family members come to us that face to face on information, then you know it's that member of the family who came to his patient. However, the pandemic has done its part. Not only those who are in home isolation of family members, but no one could actually come, and now it's a bad situation, so they won't be able to come directly to the information. Now what's going on here? So the phone route can get information with that it was very awkward, you're really right, it's been weeks and months when there were so many patients that you put it in one department first, so you move it to another department because it got worse. So in this case you really need to give family members more phone numbers on which they can get valid information. But I'm saying, it's not a substitute for personal contact. But here's the phone number and it's more numbers so they can at least be given on the phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70544	Followed by a replica of the respected MP, Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70545	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, can we present to the Croatian public what the role of the commissioner is, therefore, whether it is the role of the commissioner when asked by the prime minister to show what the cost of the trip to Finland has been to "snare up the cat's tongue". Is the role of commissioners when we know that, therefore, diplomats have been eating money in Australia to declare it a state secret? So, well, that's amazing. And according to you, what can be done to make it simple for that man who is eventually elected there by the Croatian Parliament to do his job, and his job is to fight corruption. So, one of a series of others, but that's one of the greatest meanings of the Commissioner's role at all, so we have a fight against corruption, and this way we have worse whether something is allowed, and in the field we have people who can't do anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70546	Thank you very much. Yeah, I listened to you before you spoke in the replica, and here's what you said, so you know what I'd say. As a matter of fact, the Commissioner of Information has a number of duties, powers, etc., which are defined in the article, and on the other hand you have a government that ignores even us MPs who send them questions, let alone someone else. It's all over me. I was just about to start talking. [[Intruder: Time]] Yeah. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70547	Well, then cancel out the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70548	So, here's what you've been saying in the replica and now that you've pointed out the Commissioner, I'm going to repeat whether he has his powers and his duties as a defined article, but I'm afraid the Commissioner for Information is even, even when he's made some remarks that, as he's been given here on e-consultation, when in his reports, he warns of what's wrong, as well as lawyers, lawyers or lawyers for different sectors, they all warn about what's wrong, and does the government listen to them? So it seems more to me that I am not so much a commissioner in these situations than I must say the haughtiness of the ruling. Which is why they don't specifically say that, anyway, here's all the data, just like I told them about Minister Marić, why he didn't say nicely to the public, I was on the yacht of this and that friend and everything is clear and transparent. Here, that's kind of my impression.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70549	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70550	I have to react because it's this opportunity now and that's what you said to your colleagues, so he's hurt. In 238, so I agree with most of what you said except for this last part, it's not the task, and it's not just the government's fault. If the government does not provide information, the Commissioner will have a public role and he would have to be able to go public and warn if some state bodies and institutions do not deliver documents, just as the attorney general has to step forward on certain issues.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70551	Well, you know it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, your replica, but you have a warning. Next is an individual debate by the respected representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70552	Dear Vice-President HS Mr. Sanader, Mr. Bukarica, the esteemed state secretary with his associates and respected commissioners, respected colleagues and colleagues, Croatian peoples. So access to information is one of the fundamental rights guaranteed by our constitution, and we at the Mosta Club think that the role of Commissioners should be strengthened, that the Commissioner, the Commissioner, can punish because we eat work when we get in our pocket and what we think in Club Mosta, that the Commissioner can be braver, that a man can organise presses, that he can come to the public, that the word has been as long and as long as we have since 2019, so we still have no information about how the taxpayers' money has been spent in Finland. Prime Minister, tell us this information. The Commissioner must be a brave and determined man who is on the defender of the so-called fundamental values of our constitutional values, he must come and say so we have indications or the Mostos are saying that the money of diplomats in Australia has been anointed. Why doesn't the Croatian public have the right to know what, how and where he stole it? The thief doesn't steal, if you've stolen it, let it be known, and somehow it seems to me that you know how he who's powerful is on top and he squeezes you a little bit, and then the man pulls himself in if he's in his own house, the pay comes, so we're gonna do what we can. It's not good, we have to build democracy, and if we don't build it, it can't stand in the same place, the water that stands in the same place becomes concocted, none, stinky, so the sea must move forward that river of democracy. So we at the Bridge Club made our proposal, we were constructive and we went in several directions. The length of procedures, it is unacceptable for citizens to camp out in front of competent institutions to get the information they need. So citizens have the right to access information that must be fast, concrete, accurate, not half-way. At this time of general digitization, so it can be realized by one click, you open and one click gives you all the information you need in what, as soon as possible. So if you look at the article. 8th of this proposal amending Article. The 25th Act on the right to access information falls into about two amendments. The first to say that we have raised from 30 to 60 days, and the second major change refers to the possibility or inability to appeal to the Commissioner in cases where public authorities decide not to request access to information by an administrative act by means of a solution but instead to provide the user with information an inadmissible act of notification. This proposal for a law against such irregular acts provides for the submission of an objection and this objection under the General Administrative Procedure Act, which the public authority must then decide by means of a decision which may possibly be declared by the appeal. As we can see, both of these small changes will make it very difficult and extend the deadlines for the right to access information, and we find these provisions unacceptable and conflicting purposes and the objective of the law. We therefore propose to take up the second reading in Art. Deleting item 2 extending the deadline for the decision of appeal. So, as regards St. 1. in the same article.8. and this situation with the objection we propose to remove the second reading and such a solution, instead of considering the potential solution to this problem with irregular acts. We are proposing two possible solutions that would be acceptable to us, firstly to prescribe by law that any request without exceptional solution is made against which there is always the right to appeal. This is the solution the Bridge proposed in its law. The second proposal is somewhat milder, but yet acceptable, and it implies that the law clearly and precisely prescribes the possibility of filing an appeal to the Commissioner and against irregular acts to avoid this interstate with an objection, which already requires users of information and more serious legal knowledge and understanding. So I don't have any more time. We want to give the Commissioner more authority. We want the Commissioner not to be some half-dead letter on paper, which will deal with matters that are important, and in fact, crucial can be about fighting corruption, against nepotism, and that's why we at the Mosta Club are in favour, we would give all the powers to the Commissioner, indeed all the powers and we think that if we respect democracy, the democratic processes, then it's clear to both the ruling and the opposition. The Commissioner must have the power in his hands to fight specifically here when we talk about this against nepotism and corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70553	Here's a few replicas. The first is a respected representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70554	Thank you. Dear counterpart Miletic, the government's proposal could be called "no waves". So, what we are in the proposal of the Mosta Club is not proposed, so we have been looking for it for a few years now, and we have now made further suggestions and improved, so colleague Selak Rasdic with certain details and news. What's logical and what we require is for the Commissioner to get real strength, so that he can punish those who don't give information. And I'd just like to tell everyone, you've mentioned some cases, no one else's till dawn gorillas. So Ivo Sanader seemed powerful. This is what Andrej Plenkovic and all those who are currently hiding information in the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, so here I see that there is Commissioner Puculjan, so they will all answer one day, but they will answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70555	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70556	Article 16 and Article 16, respectively, Article 25 of the Act on the right to access information, which allows the Secret Service to monitor citizens seeking information. It's inadmissible in modern democracy that secret services, so you come in, report, seek access to information, and hang on to the back of the Secret Service. So why are you a criminal? You're just a citizen who wants to know something that's going on. So, we've got a lot of work to do with this Croatia of ours. We have a lot of work to do to spread democratic processes. We have a lot of work to do in the fight against corruption and nepotism. But if you were right, says the people “every candle burns, and only God is eternal. ” Maybe the Dalmatians would say something else, but I'll stay on it only God is dear forever, everything else passes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70557	The next replica, the esteemed representative, Željko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70558	Thank you. Dear counterpart Miletic, this debate of yours would make sense if she were in the Bundestag in the German Parliament. However, in the Croatian Parliament where complicated, vague, ambiguous laws are passed, I don't think it's worth discussing at all in this way. In Croatia, the law applies that large fish eat small fish and Croatian laws are like spider webs where tiny flies are caught, and beetles fly through it. It is a fact in the functioning of the entire system in the Republic of Croatia. Start with entrepreneurship 100 problems, 100 complications to come up with something. Every law produced is so complicated because often people who have no idea what they're doing, but want to be very smart, they want to be smarter than their employees because they're in a leading position and think they're going to protect their position. The law must be simple, significant and must be accurate in implying what needs to be done. What you said right you need to know exactly what to do... [[Santer Invader: Time.]] [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70559	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70560	Currently, the laws in Croatia are to punish the godmother on the payroll with considerable money, and what you have said, so those who have anointed, stole our Croatia, where our breasts flooded in the name of sacred patriotism and then in the suitcases of money were also in different black and other colors of bags, that this is a disaster in every respect. But I'll tell you, I'm an optimist, I firmly believe we all have to go through the desert. The Jewish people spent 40 years saying it was picturesque, so what delights me is that we are approaching that number too, and I am convinced that every system, the democracy that is being built, the fluids of modern society, no one great has become great at once, but all the great have been small. We're small right now, but I'm sure we'll become great about the democracy of these processes that I've been talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70561	Followed by a replica of the respected advocates of Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70562	Dear counterpart Miletic, how do you comment on the fact that when we talk about the right to access information and at all about accessing information without the need for their demand, which is often not an answer, we already have a situation today that we have different state bodies, local self-government bodies that possess many valuable information that we cannot get to? And when we get to them, say, if they are on the Internet they are in such a confusing and vague way written, and even if you are searching the Croatian Assembly page. Who besides us representatives who have had to manage on the Croatian Assembly page and even understand which point is which? I need until I reach one law at the Croatian Parliament to spend time and time. So, we have a vision of the availability of information to citizens, and actually in practice systems are particularly complex in a way that this information is not available to citizens because they cannot manage it. How do you comment?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70563	You reminded me now of the county SDPs in my backyard when they put the budget in PDF on 560 pages, but that nothing could be read, did you, and then my fellow Bridgers found on the 420th page that they had planned to build a burner that we Rijeka Bridges had stopped with the Rivers of Vezice and the whole surrounding area. So any law must be clearly written at the level that citizens who do not know the right to understand it at all. So every law of it was spoken by a colleague, so every law that a citizen, an ordinary citizen who deals with anything, we don't underestimate anyone, anything, a professor, a teacher, a worker, whatever he knows, is a law that tells me about it and that, I have to act like this, he commits to it and that. And wherever philosophy is about complexity it opens the way to manipulations but here and that is the process that colleagues of us at the MOST Club are aware that the time will come when we will build it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70564	The next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70565	Here, good day to all, so Friday just before 12 o'clock, 2 HDZ MPs, 2 representatives of the ruling majority in the Croatian Parliament defend the bill which should therefore help in the greater availability of information which is one of the basic tools in the fight against corruption. My colleagues mean Marija Selak Rasdić and Marin Miletic have detailed the problems of this bill, but also our proposals that we are looking for in our debate in our bill of law because we actually want to strengthen the role of the Commissioner for Information, give him the opportunity to give a direct sentence. But my colleague Miletic also spoke of one important aspect, so it is not only the legislative framework that matters, it is also important how the Commissioner for Information uses this legislative framework. And I think, here's the Commissioner for Informing Guns that he's not using. We warned him about it on the anti-corruption council and he said there he would be active in the public, here it was a few months ago I never heard or saw him. And it's a little hidden there today, and I'd like this one to come out into the light not only here in the Croatian Parliament but in public and start talking about those cases where we have a situation to cover up certain information. Some colleagues have been talking about, this time in Finland and I often talk about this situation at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs where it itself, where not only are travel orders declared a state secret but also a full report by the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs Inspectorate. And something about dealing with classified information, I think it's good to say. Therefore, these problems related to classified data are largely due to the misapplication and implementation of the Data Securitisation Act. In fact, the law requires assumptions that have to be fulfilled in order to classify some information as a secret information in the first place. The time limits of confidentiality or time limits for the availability of data are prescribed and procedures for which all bodies of the public authorities who are the owners of classified data are required to carry out a periodic assessment of whether a particular information declared to be a secret declaration is required. What's happening to us in practice? In practice, too often one of the secret markings is marked by information that should not be kept secret at all. So we have this case from the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs where ordinary travel orders have been declared a state of secret, therefore, some kind of official in our diplomacy. That's how, unfortunately, it works. In addition, once the information is declared secret, it is rare that the bodies that carry out by law have a mandatory periodic assessment of whether any information should remain secret or can be declassified. This results in the fact that, after the deadlines for the secrecy of the data have passed, these data continue to be kept secret in practice, so we have absurd situations that such never-declassified data are kept in, decades and even submitted to the archives. And in the archives, they actually don't know what to do with that data, if they can make archive users available. And I would remind here in the Croatian Parliament it's a shame that no one, here is a few days away, no one has talked about it. The European Parliament's Foreign Policy Committee has made one recommendation to all governments in the areas of these countries that have come out of communism to open the archives of UDBE and KOS, to declassify those data. I remind you that the MOST here proposed a bill, all of you unanimously supported it to open these archives, were a total open year after HDZ came out one file in which, in fact, we came to the realization that one of our founders, Vladimir Seks, was an operational UDBE link under the code name of his colleagues, HDZ proposed a new law that these archives were closed. Here I call you all to a joint action, the MOST Club will initiate that the archives of UDBE and KOS are finally opened and that this kind of thing, this kind of crime, can't be hidden behind the designations of state secrets.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70566	The first replica of the respected representative Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70567	Yes, I will agree with you here, indeed, we have talked so much about this strategy of corruption, it has occurred to us that we are not interested in this debate, that it is not content, although we have offered legislative proposals then, and now that we are working on countering corruption, we are creating HDZ tools, HDZ has nothing to say and maybe everything is saying. But my question is different. Now you have looked back on a very important thing that came from the EU itself, which is a recommendation that these archives finally open. Interestingly none of our state leaders talk about it in public. It does not trouble the recommendation at all, and we know how fast they are when it comes to listening to Europe's recommendations. So on this trail, I'm going to ask you here a question, which is your assessment given your previous experience, is there any chance that these archives in Croatia are not only open but that any of our authorities are talking about them at all?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70568	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70569	So, I remember that was, this government had already fallen, so the government in which we participated, and in which Plenkovic was prime minister and it was the last hours here God of Petrov as President of the Croatian Parliament, the public had fun by having this Božo Petrov, or how his bladder supported that sitting there, and we were actually sitting there to discuss this law on archives that was passed just because they immediately followed local elections and HDZ couldn't afford to be against that bill, and then the other colleagues here in the assembly supported it. So, you can still, obviously you should choose a good timing, and I hope here we will be the initiators of that reopening archive here in HS and finally all come out. I think it's the best possible illustration move.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70570	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70571	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Comrade Grmoy, it's not a problem that here are constantly two representatives of the ruling option, so from the ruling option we have, look at the assembly, two parliamentary MPs. The problem is that they clearly show what they think about the debate, no one participated except for a colleague of the Pupovec, no one. So, for free we paint, we can argue, we can make it, let's make it clear that every law should be a step forward, no matter what law we agree, we don't agree and we can yell here, not shout, but let's see, so step forward, so you're so honestly recognized and the word is still a small step forward let's do something. What step forward do we see in this law? Not one. And that is the essence of what HDZ's thoughts on our debate indicate in the way it participates in the debate. But what's the bottom line is we're not doing a good job.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70572	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70573	So here's what I didn't know about this data, I was there, this short thing I came up with, but I didn't know that no one on behalf of the HDZ Club was discussing this bill, I think it is, however, good. This means on behalf of the club yes, but here's no one participated in an individual, in an individual debate, nor are they too interested. But look, it doesn't surprise me when it is, it doesn't surprise me when there's the mayor of this Great Gorica here, the man who's been asking his councillor questions doesn't answer, so since August and then he gets up and asks for a breach of the Rules of Procedure and this one says he's been delivering everything, so since August he's been asking questions he hasn't answered, that he's obviously hiding this former boss of his, the one he just replaced, he's replaced his face instead of Barisic, Ackar came, but everything's the same, the modus operandi stayed the same in Gorica, and he's laughing this and, and, and he supports that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70574	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70575	No, no, no. There's an injury.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70576	Here you go, Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70577	Here's the breach of the Rules of Procedure so much as we didn't know by saying one false information. It seems to me that from the ranks of HDZ in an individual debate, however, one parliamentary representative from counterpart Piletic participated, and given what he said, I think it would be a minor insult if he hadn't reported at all. In fact, he called on Anta Starčević, saying that whoever feeds on the bread of the people has the people's accounts. Well, whoever's counting on the people doesn't exactly lay down the HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70578	And you haven't called on the article of the Rules of Procedure, nothing, you've only used this as your own opinion, and it wasn't a replica, you get a warning. Here you go, Your Honor, Commissioner Marine Miletic, your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70579	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear comrade Grmoy, can we try to draw to the Croatian public without art, but to bring them closer to what anyone is afraid of when we talk about opening the archives, what someone would fear, why, simply as you would say, so if you were honest in your life, and if you were doing things out of conviction in your life, so if someone, as you would say, loved Comrade Tito, means outside of everything, you had a statue of the Second Tito, you loved him in your hands, starved him, cleaned him up, and then entered into some party after, so why would that be a problem? And if he was working with some services, working, organizing something, I don't know. Here I am interested in explaining to the Croatian public what people who are afraid of opening archives are afraid of. Why do they like being closed instead of open when it's open much nicer than closed?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70580	You know, you know what's interesting to me, so I don't agree with President Milanovic about, there were questions of Goldstein and this picture of him in the embassy, so it's not the same thing when you don't give up something and now that you're for Tito and the party, it's not the same. But even more scandalous is the statement by Grlic Radman, you know what he said, says Milanovic came in in the '85, I don't know, I don't know, says when everyone came out of the party like that was how unwise he was. So Grlic Radman wants to say about his father and those like us, we knew when to get out of which party and which party and where to, where to pick up. So this tells you all about, about Croatian, Croatian society and we are absolutely about, so to open it all up and that is why we have proposed this Law of Archives. It's not just a question of who was in the party, it's not a problem, it's a problem that someone was working for that party, whether or not he was telling people, which is why people could get hurt, so that's what this is all about, and some of the key HDZ people, here's Vladimir Shakespeare. He did exactly that. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70581	The next replica honours Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70582	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, I'd like to rely on what we discussed earlier. So, I agree that there must be a more proactive role for the Commissioner, but what my colleague specifically asked me is that there is still number one boast and mistakes of the government that they did not do what they did then there would not actually be such a need for the Commissioner to act more actively. But the next thing I'd like you to comment on, among other things, I've read this bill of yours where you're asking to give more authority to the Commissioner for Information, among other things, and to impose administrative fines. Well, here I go back to art then. The 10th existing Law on the publication of information where it says that public authorities must make clear all their sponsorships, donations and other assistance including the list of users and the amount of the amount. You followed what was happening in my middle, was it a bribe of 10,000, was it a donation, as you say, how you comment on that fact that here is the donation that didn't show clearly And one experienced politician is at stake. [[Stain Sanader: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70583	So I'm not going to go into individual cases, but it's a fact, so some people get hurt over some amounts that are for every conviction. So there's no talking about corruption I don't know 10 kunas, because if you're unfaithful with 10 kunas you'll be with a million. Therefore, the same criteria should be taken in this regard. But the problem is, here we have a situation here if I'm talking about this case at the MVP. So, setting up jobs without an internal call. It is the same as Ana Stavinić Rukavina ended up under investigation in Zagreb, so what was done at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, which is why no one was killed. So we have travel orders and that, so nothing's going on. So obviously they don't apply the same criteria to everyone. And if you have protection then nothing will happen to you, and the Commissioner for Information, see what the President of the Commission does. She warns of bad law. I didn't hear Commissioner says now give me more authority so I can do that. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] He's not in public.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70584	Next individual debate, respected representative Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70585	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed State Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So there's an amendment to one I'd say is an interesting law. I think that every law when you make changes and complements we have to do a step forward, not stand in place, not even take a step backwards. This law didn't do it. Imagine when a person who actually works under that law, which is the Commissioner for Information and Writes and tells my people we have some provisions that offend us, we have provisions that are our problem. He also said that in the 2020 report on his work. But it repeats itself continuously through the report, give us the law so that we can be better, more efficient, and everything else, and the one who is the bearer of everything, which is the ministry says so it doesn't matter. Someone else told us otherwise. It just doesn't work. It's just not good. We if we want to have a law that is enforceable, which is an effective first thing we should do is that it is horizontally consistent with the rules of some other regulation. This information regulation needs to be brought into line with another regulation. And it's just a question of what we want, what our goal is, what our purpose is. If we want to give a tool to the Commissioner for Information to be faster, to be better, to be more efficient, to be clearer, to be more transparent, to do its job faster, then let's give him that tool in his hands. And on the one hand, we're formally saying that we're coordinating, and let's not, so let me finish the thought I'm trying to say. I am one of those who is an EU fan and I think it is better to say for Croatia that it is incomparable to the EU member and that in society it is better, more successful, more reasonable and more important than it is not. But that excuse we have is constantly in line with the directive. So when the directive tells us something, then it's all okay. And then we're gonna iron it all together, and then it's gonna be okay together. So let's include common sense and include reason. So, as I've already said, we've had a law since 2013. We have a little less than 6,000 subjects who are subject to the obligations of the Information Act. We still don't have over 400 commissioners appointed. My people, from 2013 to 2021, were reported in 2020. The Commissioner says there's still a team in there we don't have. So what did we do? What are we doing? What tools do we have that doesn't happen to us? And then let's see, so I have a feeling very clear that GDPR has become our alibi for some things we don't want to do or we don't want to do our job that's scary. Well, that wasn't the point of GDPR. It wasn't the sense of GDPR that then because of GDPR some things aren't open, clear and transparent. What must be clear in this country, what there should be no dilemma in this country is how public money is spent. Budgets are public money. Budgets are money filled by all citizens, i.e. citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. As someone spends that public money it must be quickly available, it must be clear and for that must be a sanction that is the first, sanctions where you can, where you react immediately. So, according to the list, there will be approximately 3 million and 800,000 of us. If there are tools Commissioner for Information, if there are tools to prevent conflicts of interest, if it can be effective and rapid and if there is a clear sanction that someone does not know in Slavonia knows the one in Istria at the same time and knows that they will not repeat it. But if we know it's been going on for years, it doesn't matter, that the Prime Minister can't deliver the data, so we're stopping everything together. So if the prime minister doesn't deliver the data, if the government doesn't deliver the data, then why should the chief deliver one? He's going to turn his head, and he's not going to deliver the data. So that's the point of it all. People if we want someone to do a job we have to give him a tool in the hands he's going to work with, this law hasn't done it, this law isn't a step forward, it's not even a touch in place, it's a form we've satisfied, and we don't have the contents of a new one.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70586	Thank you. We have a replica of the respected representative Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70587	Dear MPs, as far as GDPR is concerned, he's really causing us a lot of trouble. Whenever we have referred queries to public companies, according to local self-government units, to public authorities to send us some information concerning some of the events that interest us, the most common answer is not because of GDPR. I remind you that this Law introduces the notion of ananimisation which should actually allow those data that are so far unavailable because of GDPR to be animated and made available to us. However, the question arises as to what will happen if, nevertheless, the leaders of the local self-government units or the leaders of public enterprises do not deliver it. We'll have the same problem we've got before because the Commissioner doesn't have the powers to have.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70588	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70589	Thank you very much. My colleague Pavić and I have to agree with you, so one thing is that we are going formally into the amendments to the law and you see for yourself that the main debate is we are discussing, so the opposition discusses it speaking its views. The attitude they have ruling is absolutely clear, you paint free, only you argue and it will be as we wish. But it's not the point of showing the power we want. I'm kind of experiencing that the point should always be, let's be something better, let's be something more operational, so as long as there's no consequences because someone hasn't delivered the data, it won't be delivering the data and it won't be delivering the information to this public firm director if he sees that the prime minister doesn't deliver the data, why would he deliver it? So we always go, always someone who should show by his actions that he really works and takes care of himself. Public money is not the money that manages, public money is the money that was filled with citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70590	Dear representative Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70591	Thank you, Proposer. Dear MPs, you have well noticed that this Act as well as the Draft Bill on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest is a step back, and you have even better noticed that we as a state should not try so hard to comply with the legislation of the European Union than with ourselves. So our laws must be horizontally balanced and mutually cooperative. In this particular case, the right of sanctions for a head of the body who has not published or not provided the requested information should be resolved not through this Act, but through the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, as it is shorting out information on the work of the body where you are headed because you know you're doing something wrong, means that you put your private interest above the public. And that is precisely what has been disabled by the proposed amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70592	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70593	Thank you very much. So, we're masters really in making regulations, doing changes and additions, we're masters in that law don't say everything we have to say but we move it to regulations and regulations just as if we want in that sea that no one understands anything anymore, and no one understands anything anymore, but if one country, and that's the country I live in, I'd like that country to go a step forward, to be some sort of step, then this is one topic that's relatively simple to solve. I don't think and think and I know it often I think technically, it's my profession. I think very simply and always look at what the point is and what the goal is. I may not agree with it how it's set up, but if it makes sense and purpose clear, then I understand it further. To me here is the point and the goal is not to give him the tools in his hands to do something, we'll formally have the law and we'll work on the old one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70594	She will now speak to a respected representative, Marija Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70595	I am pleased to see that there is an up-to-date Commissioner for Information Mr. Piculjan, so I have no doubt that he will strongly support these legal changes where I get greater powers to punish, because he also warned in his interview that sanctioning must be effective or should not be. So it would be interesting to see what he says about our counterproposal. I'm sorry there's no colleague of the HDZ Chickens here to hear how getting the information really looks in practice, and that's what I'm going to talk about in an individual debate. I'll talk about the witness problem, the records, the registers and their functionality, especially the electronic ones. So she would go back to what I initially said in the debate on behalf of the Club and on the claim that citizens do not have time to exorcise individual information from their demands, but the name of that information should be served. If possible on the public authorities' websites. Information must be neat, accurate and organised. If possible, they must be published in a machine-readable form so that they can easily be downloaded and analysed otherwise for free of such information, and the Croatian Parliament is lagging behind in view of its pages. Very often we have situations that public authorities have and water very valuable and interesting data sets. For example, I will only list the various official eyewitnesses, records and registers that are mainly conducted in electronic form today. Some are available on the Internet and some are not. Some give you the opportunity to make an insight into your personal data but not into other people's personal data, which is understandable, but if you wanted at least some basic statistical data from such records, then you have a problem and now I'm going to say something about the practice of accessing information. First of all, you as a potential user of information are not aware of the functionality of a record run by a public authority. Here's an example from practice. I'll take our voter register. In the voters' register, you can see your personal data as a voter or when some choices are available you can get information about your polling post. However, if you want some statistics from the voters' register, that's already going a lot harder. So in MOST, for example, we asked for a relatively simple statistics, and we asked the Ministry of Justice and Administration to provide us with information on the number of voters resident outside the Republic of Croatia. Very valuable data that we all care about. Grouped by country and in the time period from today to 10 years ago. At our first request, the ministry informed us that there was no such data and that the data had a DIP. All right. It was strange to us, since we know that according to the Law on Election Registration, the register is run by the ministry, not the DIP, but still on the Ministry's instructions, we have addressed the DIP this time. As we assumed, the DIP doesn't run the voters' register, so we were properly referred back to the ministry. We have again filed a new request for access to information. We have now received no new answer from the ministry, yet we have been informed by an incorrect act that they are still running the register of voters, but that our request is something called a complex inquiry i.e. that the functionality of the electronic application register does not allow the data we have requested to be supplied by simple search. Although we were relieved because the ministry managed to find a lost register, this response was a little questionable. In fact, the ministry may not have the 2011 data, but if they didn't have any current data from the voters' register today, that already sounded like a serious problem to be investigated because if the minister had lost the register of voters dearly my colleagues and colleagues, it would still be a matter of resigning. We weren't lazy. We complained to the commissioner who respected our complaint and ordered the ministry to provide us with the requested information. The ministry submitted a notice for the third time, an irregular act answering us this time that the current statistics on voters residing outside Croatia were first published in a statistical representation of the 20th ministry from 2020. We haven't received any historical data in the past 10 years. On this example, you can see how the public authority, specifically the Ministry of Justice and the administration, cheats, hides the data it has, manipulates them, does not deliver them to users, is used by legal tricks i.e. He keeps delivering irregular acts in order to avoid the appeal procedure. Finally, after months of tension, we only expelled partial information about the current state in the voters' register. So all that I'm telling you here shows you that we really need to change, but on the trail of what we're proposing here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70596	We have one replica of the esteemed representative of the bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70597	My colleague Selak Rasudiæ, you spoke about the availability of data. We have a problem with today's national referendum so they don't want to deliver signed lists, which we'll talk about further. Here, comment on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70598	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70599	I agree. So here's the example I've set here, and we can see how much information can be manipulated by supplying it, and even when it comes to serious queries coming from the legislative authority, so you can see from the assembly how long it took us to finally exorcise any information and how much it could be going around in circles and these appeals, by giving out acts that there's no appeal until you get any information at all. So, talk about access to information, and have a law that will make that approach a dead letter on paper and we will not get any travel orders, nor this information that we need about the referendum that we know whether it was legal to keep it untenable shows you that there is no serious intensity within the ruling structure that really suppresss corruption in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70600	The Republic also has a respected representative, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70601	Thank you. I must admit that you have surprised me with this example of the number of voters because I don't really see why the ministry in any, for any reason, would be hiding when it is more or less public, so the number of Croatian citizens with voting rights that do not have in the Republic of Croatia is somewhere around 750 to 800 thousand. I don't know what they've answered, but it's a data that's more or less relatively easy to get when out of a total number of 4.5 million voters, those who have a residence in the Republic of Croatia, which is about 3 million and 800 thousand, and the actual number should be somewhere million and 100 thousand if all the residence records were to be consistent with the real state. If you can give me a more detailed explanation of why they didn't give you and what you think that's the reason, then maybe you could get into their motives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70602	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70603	So we're looking for a 10-year analysis, let's see the trends. It's not just an important trend that's obvious, and that's to see how many of our citizens have moved into individual countries. But we also wanted to read from that register where the number of voters with residence outside the Republic of Croatia grew. And given the way the current government works, it can be clear why such information was a problem for them. So I believe that this was the reason why we failed to obtain the requested data completely never, even though we were able to find out from these smaller ones some information. So we were also interested in trends in where the number of voters who have a residence outside Croatia grew.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70604	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Arsen Bauk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70605	Thank you. I'd like to rely on this last debate. The highest number of voters outside the Republic of Croatia increased when transitional provisions of the Housing Act entered into force and when de facto on a New Year's Eve, the number of voters increased by up to 200 to 250,000 because all those who had not requested a new ID card had been deleted from their residence in Croatia. And that's usually a legendary time when the Constitutional Court has determined the number of voters needed for and to call a referendum which is a lasting source of inspiration at least part of this portal to include me in that story that I cheated on the Constitutional Court. Well, good. As regards the Law on the right to access information, therefore the political context is clear to me and the key question is whether, in the final proposal of the law, the Commissioner will find the authority to do his job normally or leave himself to do what he asked for in his reports and in consulting with the interested public, whether he will be able to overcome it. So in that sense, it will also be a criterion if we support this law. I am not prone to support certain mechanisms without further analysis, which would reduce citizens' right to access information, although fate has set me up with just one such proposal for a law to supplement or amend the Law on the right to access information. Because at first we noticed that certain individuals abuse this institute in a way that, with a large or oblivious number of questions, they address the same institution and thus block its normal functioning. So, in fact, at that time, we introduced this institute so that the right to access could be denied, of course, by the court. Also, the working group that worked in the Ministry of Administration in 2012, which was in force with these amendments, consisted of representatives of civil society and, on the other hand, representatives of the security system. And of course it was a lot of debate within the working group that would be instruments and how to put them into law. What was finally adopted was the result of a compromise where, on the one hand, the institutional organisation of the implementation of the right to access information was strengthened, that, instead of the AZOP established by the Office of the Information Commissioners, all possibilities were established, so that it was given the authority to take into account certain information and decide whether to confirm the decision of the body to deny the information for some reason or ultimately decide the High Administrative Court. What went in favour of those who advocated a cautious approach is that until the final decision, the court of information is not to be published. Then again, the locust returns to the other side because the fact is, so sometimes the teaming is very important in whether or not some information is going to be published. Because if you get something to publish in two years it will no longer have the effect it would have had to be published at the time when it was due and when it was legal. And in that case, there have also been certain abuses by the public authority, or their leaders, that in fact by filing complaints, lawsuits, etc. Buying time. And it all comes down to balancing whether the company is more protected, so publishing information or there are reasons why the information cannot be published. In a moment I will say so, so when HDZ is in power, no prevention measure seems good enough to me, but every reduction in prevention mechanisms seems bad and therefore we approach this problem with caution and we will be restrained at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70606	The Honorable representative Oreshkovic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70607	Dear colleague Bauce, and this squawk and this teaming announcement of certain information that you have well established is important to politicians and political elites I think is the real reason why the establishment of transparency never went to the end regardless of which government was headed. So, what exactly are we protecting the right to access information or the reason for the information not to be published? We can see for example the travel of the president of the country to some other countries. In your own time, and you also touched it in our debate we had a situation that a large number of journalists, media, citizens directed the Office of the President of the State of Kolinda Grabar Kitarović one and the same query, which was what was the purpose of the trip to the United States? And then her office defended itself with this argument that too many applications were filed, so the same question was not answered until today. Do you think there is any other reason why such treatment should be tolerated in the term of Zoran Milanovic?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70608	Dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70609	Except in that part of the fact that it is a protected person and the part that requires the sole protection of the integrity, i.e. the life or safety of a protected person, I understand that certain data is not published immediately, but after a certain time. Well, as far as the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Defence, the Minister of the Interior and all others who are protected. I also believe that the data on the movement of their insurance should be protected in that part not for a little while longer, therefore, because it is the officers, and I am also aware, although I am aware that a certain level of officials does not have the right to private travel, to private events, because simply at the moment of their conduct of duty are not private persons and there we have a certain higher threshold for why something should remain hidden.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70610	Thank you. Dear Representative Bačić has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70611	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bauk, I did not want to get a warning earlier through the breach of the Rules of Procedure when you asked my colleague Selak Rasudiæ about the register of voters and the list of voters. Namely, you are the minister of the administration who proposed to this House the formation and registration of voters and when we had this number of debates over the list of voters. I don't understand what's not clear to you, so ask her when it comes to the use of voter registration data. You know very well that it is being published, that even on the pages, on the Ministry's website data is periodically published from the voters' register. Before each election, a list of voters is extracted from the voters' register... Presidential, parliamentary, local, europarliamentary or referendum. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't understand that you're asking a question about what you know very well. You should have said that things were standing, and it turned out like that, I mean, there's a little bit of a question about the code that there's some kind of cool game that doesn't make the ministry publish something that's publicly available and that we're familiar with everything that we want.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70612	Dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70613	Besides, I agree with you, that's all I asked. So, I don't understand what would be the Ministry's motive not to publish it, and that's why I have a question that I haven't solved yet. Eventually, I can assume, so maybe it's that they wanted to gain a little more precisely by state, that this information is not published with a list of voters and that they could have given it. So I, basically agree with you here, I don't know where this mysticism is, which, but here's the test, I'm going to test, so I'm going to ask a representative question, so let me see what the ministry answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70614	Honorable representative of Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70615	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Representative Bauk, this directive, which is transposed into law among other things, states that it establishes a set of minimum rules, but that Member States are encouraged to overcome those minimum requirements. Now it's happening in this law that something that we had before the obligation that is above this minimum is now de facto being reduced and that actually reduces the rights of citizens to access information already acquired. I would like you to only comment in the context of what you said that there is clearly a clear tendency to reduce this commission, the powers of the Committee for Conflict of Interest, and the question of the Commissioners for Information.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70616	Dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70617	You followed well, I also took a little more graphic perhaps even more radically using the term euthanasia castration or death. Now, as far as the commission is concerned, these terms can be called metaphorically, but as the Commissioner is a natural person and an institution, then the use of such expressions for them and him could be a little bit and offensive, so I won't use those terms in that sense. So it is only that at this point it is clear that the moves of the current government towards these institutions, which, by the way, have been given to Croatia in the EU accession process at times when the government was in power, whose president was 10 years old. Later and legally convicted several times, and the party as a legal person also has been convicted, so that part of their efforts always goes to a reduction in their powers, not to an increase. I'd like to be denied by this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70618	Thank you very much. The next one will speak to the esteemed representative Sabina Vosovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70619	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS, the Honorable Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. I am saddened by the fact that after it has already prevailed in Croatian practice that everything that should be transparent is actually extinguished and that we continue independently in that tone. I will just remind myself that for some unknown reason, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has an overwhelming need to be accounted for so far with the independent institutions of defense attorneys who have been trying to unearth, I will say so, in one way or another, and I have already repeated this endlessly many times after this speaker. A few, a month ago, we saw that he was also trying to dig up the Committee on Conflict of Interest under quotes, and now he's obviously come to the turn and commissioner for the right to access information. Justifying that this law is only and exclusively in line with the EU directive is simply not something we can accept. Perhaps the EU directive is actually being misused in this case to lower existing standards. Why do I say that? Because the EU Directive or the European Parliament and the Council of 20 June 2019 on open data and reuse of public sector information, it presented a minimum level of harmonisation of Member States' legislation, assuming that some EU countries may not yet have reached a certain minimum level or standard of ensuring citizens' access to information. However, the EU directive does not prescribe anywhere and should not be a reason, nor does it have any directive limiting the fact that it makes it impossible for the country to raise those minimum standards and standards. And that is why I find it unacceptable and unacceptable that some of the standards that are higher than those prescribed by the EU directive, we are actually trying through this bill, trying to lower. First of all, as regards the reuse of data, that is more or less what colleagues have said about it. The same way through public funding and public information as the second point that I don't repeat myself and something my colleagues said about it. Fourthly, over the longer period for resolving complaints, which is also unacceptable from 30 days to 60 days, but also through the duration of public, public consultation, so much more that it took us so long to actually adopt and adapt ourselves to this standard of putting documents on public consultation with the public interest if we continue to fight some battles with some public administration bodies, and to the ministries that... to conduct public counseling sometimes loses somewhere or too late, later on, it is simply something that is inadmissible and which we must not, at all, agree to. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I am also saddened by the fact that some remarks by the Commissioners for Information have not been observed and related to the monitoring and supervision of the application of the law or to the strengthening of the instruments of supervision and effectiveness of access to information through the Institute for the Implementation of Solutions and Monetary sanctioning the publication of a list of public authorities which do not carry out the tasks of the Commissioners. This is extremely important because unfortunately the existing law allows public administration leaders to simply ignore requests and simply not hand over the requested data, even after the adoption of a solution, Commissioners' solutions. And because of the inadequate monitoring and sanctions mechanism, nothing special is happening to them. Well, that's one example we have in Varazdin where the former mayor, for example. The Czech Republic, when it was asked for certain data specifically from the Varazdin Association without the garbage that requested the documents, failed to obtain most of the documents that were incriminating for Mayor Chehok and his, his people. And there are certain examples like that, there are more. And that's just something that's inadmissible because we all know what the habitat is and what's the point of accessing information that all the information that's in the citizens' interest must be public, must be available.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70620	Honorable representative Ursha Rakuar Gamulin has.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70621	Dear Mr President, you said, of course, that there is no regulation in the directive that these minimum requirements are those that are to be followed, but here I would strengthen you by saying in the first article of the directive, Member States are encouraged to overcome the minimum requirements set out in this Directive. So, here's an additional comment, please. So the directive stipulates that minimum requirements are met and that the good decisions found are maintained and improved. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70622	Dear representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70623	Thank you. Right, you're right, here I am, too, in front of me, I have exactly that quote that says in addition to the fact that the provisions of Union law and national law which exceed these minimum requirements, especially in sectoral law cases, should continue to apply in section 18 of the preamble of the directive. It's still complemented by this part of yours, yours. But the problem is that actually the government of the Republic of Croatia is exactly through harmonisation with the directive, and this is not the first time, it has found a way to minimise the standards reached, it will say that we have aligned ourselves with the directive, interpreting it in a way that is not at all what you have quoted as what I have complemented you for not even trying to vilify this institution, which is very important in the fight against corruption as it seems and is trying to do with the Commission on the conflict of interest, but also with some who are not so many anti-corruption mechanisms, which are lawyers. which by habitat should be independent, but HDZ there [[Intruder: Thank you.]] independence simply cannot be tolerated. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70624	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Dalia Oreskovic will now be the next speaker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70625	I'm going to ask a rhetorical question. Who is in charge, who should stand in defense of the Constitution, the law and democracy? Well, first of all, it should be institutions. But right now, I can't because it doesn't allow me to have a conscience and it doesn't allow me to feel ashamed to talk about institutions that should guard the legal order and say it from the pay phone of the Croatian Parliament as an institution that creates and designs all others, and given the context that this moment as well as today's working day, the assembly is almost empty, and one of the most important anti-corruption laws is being discussed. And I actually hear it, it seems like I'm hearing my own echo when I'm talking about what this law should say, especially given that there's absolutely no hearing from the ruling majority about the constructive anti-corruption proposal. Since it's not tossing, they don't throw pearls where they don't belong, I'm going to adjust what I wanted to say to the circumstances of this case. And to make it quite short, we can access this law in two ways. Either superficially and formally or deal with the essence. Those who will approach this law will formally say that it is in line with EU legislation, and those who know the practice and implementation of this law in our Croatian reality are obliged to point out that its effects have so far been lost, and with the proposed changes, we will reach the new bottom of the implementation of anti-corruption measures and programmes. In fact, Croatia is still in a much unbuilt state, and I will say that it is a dosed democracy. The real problem is that since HDZ has been in power for the past few years, this dose of democracy has been getting smaller and smaller. And we witness here once moving backwards especially with key anti-corruption institutions. From the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest to the Commissioner for Information, their real power is actually almost nonexistent right now. So, a colleague of Anka Dark Taritash spoke on behalf of the club about the necessity of reaching this horizontal alignment of different anti-corruption laws. It is specific and problematic here that two key anti-corruption laws, the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest and the Law on the Right to Access of Information are changing before the Croatian Parliament has discussed until the end of the anti-corruption strategy itself, although we have adopted it formally but we do not know how the plan of implementing the measures will go, given that these measures are not even known at this time. But two anti-corruption laws are already in effect. It is clear what it is for - the mere form, the satisfaction of those clutches that we have done something but have not done it all the way. We live in a time of digitization. In terms of digitization you will find I do not know how many search results in all adopted strategic documents. Well, you know what digitization is? What has adopted on my proposal the Anti-Corruption Council or the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy. This is the first time in history since the body has taken a proactive approach and has instead proposed to the Croatian Parliament and the Government to introduce some new mechanisms, digitised, into the new strategy. And these mechanisms were proactive disclosures of information through open databases, full fiscal transparency of all state budgets, the establishment of a whole series of publicly available registers, among other things the register of all business relations with all public authorities in which they would be proactively shown in PDF format not only concrete contracts, and there would be no need for anyone to reach the right to access information because at any moment that information would already be publicly available. So we wouldn't have a problem with all the bodies of a public authority person who's in charge of an information officer. All these rulings refused. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70626	We have a few replicas. She's the first respected representative of the Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70627	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your colleagues Oreshkovic spoke about form and content. So any regulation that we are discussing can always be discussed about form and content. I'm afraid it's been missed here and form and content. Form or should be in the same way consistent with a number of other laws which are not, and in substance we haven't made a step forward, we're not going forward, we're not really sending a message we're all really ready together, regardless of which side of this assembly we're sitting on to engage in a really active fight against corruption. We use all the resources we have, and when the Commissioner of Information says people give me a tool in your hand, let me do something, or by ruling it, it's all so tight together like that little kid, you know, if you're staring, it's not going to happen. I am keenly interested in when the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest will come to this Assembly in debate, whether it will come at all in this term.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70628	Thank you. Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70629	It takes me one minute to explain what two main tools are in these two anti-corruption bodies, and we're not going to get to that in a hundred years of HDZ rule. The first is to define which public data should be available at any time in publicly published registers, and the second is that the Committee on the Decision on a conflict of interest says that if only one information is not found in these databases because the head of the body has so decided, it is said that it has put his private interest above the public and that this represents a conflict of interest whose result is the loss of mandate and loss of function that he is at that time. I didn't need a minute. It was only half enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70630	Dear representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70631	I just wanted to ask you how it is possible that, at the moment when the new Anti-Corruption Strategy and HDZ Strategy and this government is doing quite a detour from what was happening in HDZ before and it wants to change its party's perception, but also the governance of the state, it is not clear to me that it slips away on such a small thing, that at the moment we bring the Anti-Corruption Strategy parallel to it, they are again creating doubts that they want to hunt in the dim, that the information wants to stay out of the public eye. Because of course the best anti-corruption tool, one of the beginnings of that lobby is transparency in action. And I really don't understand why they do it. Two key laws actually do exactly the opposite of what we want to achieve even they are probably in the perception of their party and state governance model. Instead of moving forward, to publish public information on public groups working on bill proposals, to better, more transparently show the process of adopting sublegal acts we are going back.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70632	Thank you very much. Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70633	Thank you. To answer your question, we need one second, and the answer is “you know. ” Now let me back that up on one example. I'm a member of the Croatian Committee outside the country. The report we discussed showed that the Central State Office for Reconstruction and Housing was rebuilding houses in BiH in 2021. Since there was no further data, I asked it rightly, to say how many such houses were, who were users of these programs, and how much financial resources we spent on it, and there was shock and infidelity. Because neither the Central State Office for Reconstruction and Housing, nor the Central Office for Croats outside the country had such information. On my demands, they balled each other, sent a letter from one department to another, and eventually said that it was not even information that belonged to the right to access. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70634	Honorable representative of Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70635	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Representatives Oreskovic, I would like to ask you in the Slovenian Law on Access to Public Meanings, meaning in Article 10 there it is prescribed that public authorities are obliged to publish any information of public importance for which there are at least three requests for publication. And I would like to point out that we limit access to open-label data for the re-use of public enterprises, such as HEP, Croatian Railways, JANAF, Zagreb Holding. Please comment on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70636	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70637	Comrade Matul, I know we're political maybe even competition, but where exactly do you have to touch me at the weakest point? Slovenia has been one of the first bodies to visit my committee since 2013 and since then, I have been in pain of the fact that Slovenia has a body that we have narrowed down more than our own and that, long ago, there are more than a decade ago, it has established a public database, a register in which all these powerful contracts that the state has concluded with all private companies and companies are visible, and then it's nice to see when the right government is headed by one company, when the left Government is at the head, that these are others, and it is precisely seen that there is this line of capture of corruption, clientelism and nepotism. A simple tool that Croatia will not adopt yet who knows when.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70638	Thank you very much. Since it's one hour, normally we're going to stop at this point and move on to taking a stand on behalf of the representatives' clubs and independent MPs' clubs. We will now return to our point and now will speak the esteemed representative of William Matula. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70640	Thank you, Vice President. State secretaries with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, this Bill of Rights on Access to Information has a feature of body fraud, we can't say that there are no good parts in this law, that he has no good side of his own, but as in the sport scam of the body, it seems as though those good sides still serve as if through our legs, they're still going through some very, very bad and questionable sides of this law or another picture, which is that these good sides are actually like some kind of black syrup, and in the end we're coming up with the same problem that my colleague Bauk was talking about, which is that, in a special way, this law is actually the commission, the Commissioner for Information and the Committee for Conflict of Interest in another case that it all comes down to as little measure as possible. The benefits of this bill are certainly intended to enable public and publicly funded data to be reused for commercial and non-commercial purposes and that is what Mr. State said when I had my own question. But you didn't understand one thing, when my colleague asked a very simple question, and this is a question to what level of visibility of the state budget or budget rebalancing, not to remain completely abstract to write just some number, common figures, but to be able to go to a lower level to see what it is to say the Ministry of Agriculture, to which all the parts are divided. And it's possible and it's just that the law doesn't allow us to be publicly available. And that's why we have to ask for the availability of this data, and we end up listening here, here's very little of our HDZ colleagues, but we're listening to one of them say the fully entangled performance of Agent Chickenic when he spoke on behalf of HDZ about where he was totally impressed by the fact that the Institute of Public Finance's assessment has grown from 1.8 to 4.5 out of 5, and the man would think that there is no more corruption here, that this degree of transparency would be such that if he proceeds soon after this law and other laws that this degree of transparency in you in HDZ or at least from fellow Piletic will come to 7.5 out of 5 possible. Because it is impossible to explain in particular what we know that Croatia is still one of the most corrupt countries in Europe, that it is a country where customerelism is a question of heritage culture or a simple question of ordinary law. And finally, I think, it's already said enough, but I need to say something else about absolutely resisting the proposal that more detailed and extensive information about the availability of public funds is being conducted for this test of equality of public interest at all levels and that... we are actually coming to what former Commissioner Anamaria Musa is the predecessor of Zoran Piculjana, she had to deal with the issue of abuse, if you remember the abuse of the right to access information, then that was the problem. I think it's going to be a problem right now for this demand for proportionality of public interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70641	Thank you. The next debate will be the respected representatives of Urša Raukar Gamulin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70642	... Mr. Chairman. [[Last-on speaker]] So knowledge is power, we all know how accurate that old thought of Francis Bacon is, so the information is power, and whoever has the information is always ahead of those who don't have or can't reach it. And whoever has the information will try to keep the information only his, unreachable to everyone else because with the right information at the right time, he is always ahead of everyone. On the other hand, one of the main levers and the main principles of democracy and the fight against corruption is precisely the availability of information from the public administration of the state, regional, local, to all citizens and citizens, of course to the media. However, if the state is led by a party legally convicted of corruption, it is clear that it will do everything it can to make the information as difficult and as short as possible available to everyone. We live in a country where, for accurate and timely information, even those who, according to their duty, should have the right to all information, so MPs and MPs and council members and local and local self-government council members. When unfortunate information is sought by the ruling one refuses to provide information. The applicant then initiates an administrative dispute that takes place of course and, according to the ruling of the administrative court, unfortunate information becomes publicly available for a long time, and it is questionable whether that information then has the power as it is the moment it is sought. Thus, in these amendments and complementarity under the cover of harmonisation with European directives, it aims to make it even more difficult to access public information. In this regard, we consider it extremely bad to introduce a test of proportionality and public interest in art. 16 because when it comes to the spending of public or taxpayers' funds, therefore our money, the public interest is understood. It is, in fact, a presummation of public interest and there is no need to conduct a test of proportionality and public interest and to hide behind the abuse of the right to access information. Any limitation of this provision, and thus proposed in the draft amendments and addition of this law would represent a significant step backwards in relation to the rights of citizens and citizens so far to know how to manage the funds allocated for public needs. It is important to stress that in the directive, I will repeat, it has already been said several times, but it is clear once again that it is a set of minimum rules and that it is called on Member States to overcome the minimum requirements. Therefore, Croatia has no obligation to transfer those solutions and restrictions which reduce the rights already acquired to access information. In this regard, we also believe that citizens should not be deprived of the right to require public business data in an open format for re-use. They're for example. HEP, HZ, etc., a team before all requests for access to this open data account for just a little less than 2% of total requirements. And that's why it's unacceptable. 29th century 2 because the corrupt risks in case of restrictions on access to public business data should not be interpreted specifically because they are repeatedly confirmed in the sad Croatian practice. It is also disputed to introduce the possibility of charging bodies with public powers operating on the market, such as FINA to collect access to data collected outside their public powers, and since public authorities in the Republic of Croatia are not anywhere in public defined Commissioner will publish a list of such bodies that can collect access to all data. And this is in total contrast to the principle of a directive which advocates that all public sector data, including those of public enterprises, be available both open and free of charge. Finally, unless these amendments and additions are changed and changes in favour of a genuine right of information, we will only get one more confirmation that HDZ is a true fighter against reducing corruption and strengthening democratic principles and leverage in Croatian society. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70643	We have a replica of the respected representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70644	Thank you. My colleague, I'm going to play with your words from the beginning of the speech. Knowledge is power. We have HDZ power because it's in power, about knowing about it. But really the fact is that power has one who has information and this is about whether power is in the hands of citizens or political elites. And let me explain since your club has declared that there are some good things in this law. As long as we have to look for that information, so we make demands, so we file complaints and complaints, there's no real data availability. We need bases and registers in which key information is available at any time of the day. Good practice has been established by a number of JLS which have started with full transparency of their local budgets. It's time for the country to take that same route.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70645	Dear Representative Raukar Gamulin [[Intruder Raukar Gamulin: I agree with you, yes, excuse me, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70646	I agree with you, Your Honor. ... So the intentions of the Zagreb administration are going towards full transparency of the budget, we think it is necessary, necessary for this to go the way and the states, because without it, of course, it will not be possible to control, let alone stop the corrupt processes and say, and the consequential crime in this country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70647	Now, the Honorable Representative, Željko Pavić, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70648	The Honorable Chairman, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. First, I would refer to the presentation of several of our colleagues who mentioned the data collection provided by FINA. Please, people, don't go outside for this pay phone with misinformation. So this is how FINA earns 64% of its income on the market, 36% of its income from the contract, means the contract with the state. And all the information that's in the public registers is available to everyone for free. And those data that FINA collects from its commercial activity, normally to sell them. Why? Because it sells them to legal persons who, after that, earn money on those data. And there's the point. If you need any information, please come in, I'll explain everything, I'll tell you everything, but don't misinformation. Furthermore, yesterday I was on the Information Committee, and I told the secretary what I thought about the law, and I said on purpose that I would not comment on the parts of the laws that are related to the Commissioner for Information, but I did draw attention to the part that I said I welcome primarily because we will no longer be able to get an answer from the public authority, from public companies, the answer is that something is contrary to GDPR. Therefore, all of them have the opportunity to anonymousize these data and to deliver these data to you in a form in which they can deliver it to us or in which it would be desirable for them to deliver it to us. What is contentious to me in that part, it is the price of data preparation, it is said that the price includes reproduction, delivery of data, but also the price of the anonymous data. The price of anonymous data is extremely high and there should be caution because most of our citizens might not be able to get that data because they are too expensive, because the preparation of these data is too expensive. And I warned you yesterday, we'll see what we get until the second reading, if there'll be any changes. Namely, in the law proposed, there is no distinction between the demands made by our citizens and the demands made by companies that will later handle these data and deal with commercial activity. As for the Commissioner, here I will look back today, we have an item inside that speaks of punishing Commissioners, but what bothers us is that there are no additional powers from the Commissioners, maybe it's because they're not provided for in the directive, but we've heard it before today, let's just take a little step away from the directive and let's put something of our own. Here yesterday we had an example of the Excise Tax Act where we proposed some steps, for example, that there was no more excise duty on heavy alcohols up to 50 liters and that was accepted by the whole of Europe. Let's give positive examples, and I believe that these positive examples will also accept Europe from us in other laws. What is equally controversial, it is a counselling that says that it will last from 0 to 30 days, meaning that it is 30 days, we believe that it should continue as GONG writes in its example, in its remark, that it should last for a minimum of 30 days and if you consider that there is a need for this consultation to be reduced in some cases, there is the next paragraph in the same article, an exception if something extraordinary happens. And that can be done, transparency will be much higher. There's no longer a colleague who talked about the transparency of data units of local self-government, now I'm running out of time, but I'd like to talk about these data, the quality of these data, the quantity that's being published, etc., etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70649	The Honorable Andreja Maric has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70650	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, you have great experience and many internships in the IT sector, so it's to be trusted when you say something and suggest. When we had a discussion about the Law on Local Self-Government, then you suggested that the Minister of Administration create a unique platform for the publication of data. Which is why you went on that proposal and is it in some kind of procedure, at which stage is this platform, did that idea of yours ever come along? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70651	Dear Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70652	Thank you very much. When I suggested it to the minister, the first thing that occurred to me was the costs that local self-government units had to pay for publishing data so that these costs would be avoided and there would be no more excuses that something could not be done because there was no money in the budget of the local self-government unit, then there would be one single platform at the state level where all local self-government units could publish that data, that's one reason. Another reason is that these data would then be available to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, for all units of local self-government in the same way. And then when you need to search the data for your city, tomorrow for Bjelovar, the day after tomorrow for Osijek you will always have the same criteria, always the same search method, same application entry and you will be able to compare some data and compare. But here you asked what stage it was at, I don't know what stage it was, I don't know if it was accepted by, the minister said he would accept it, if he accepted it, if they were going to do it really, I don't know, I don't have any more information.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70653	Honorable representative Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70654	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, dear colleague I would also ask you back not to speak falsely from the Parliament's pay phone for the simple reason that public authorities in the Republic of Croatia are not publicly defined anywhere. Therefore, it is questionable what it means to impose charges on bodies with public powers operating on the market of a type of FINA, which are public authorities, right? That is the problem, and that is why we worry about it because we believe that citizens and citizens must have access to this public data, and indeed here I am pleased that you as a socialist care for the market so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70655	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70656	Well, I didn't tell the truth. I told the facts. If those facts are not correct, we can check them out and then comment on them, but the facts are what I said. So what is collected from commercial activities is that part of the data is given again to everyone and costs are charged to the collection and delivery of these data are charged. And they, and they're the data. which have been collected in public registers they are available to all and may be obtained according to the request they deliver to the FINU officials responsible for that data. [[Intruder: Please don't leave the scene.]] If you do not get this information, believe me, you do not need to go to the Commissioner for Information enough to ask or comment to the administration, according to the members of the administration and you will certainly get the information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70657	The Honorable representative, Ruzica Vukovac, will now speak on behalf of the House of Homeland Movement Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70658	Dear Members, I will finally read on behalf of the National Movement Representatives Club several OECD opinions or the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, so that they are independent so that they can understand mine, but also the objections of many who have made their comments in e-consultation. So, the OECD's report has a chapter called the Ministerial Bureau, and it's rated 4 out of 10 possible, so we got 4. The direct coordination of policy proposals by the ministry is limited, there is no stable and transparent scheme for resolving inter-minister differences. The departments responsible for drafting the bill rarely establish working groups involving employees from other ministries or governments. The deadlines for comments from other ministries and the interested public are often too short. Capacities for comments are sometimes inadequate, and comments from other ministries are often not taken seriously and clearly. In the piece on evidence-based instruments, they call it, and they interpret it as an assessment of the effects of the regulations, the EU accession process has accelerated the development of an impact assessment in Croatia. In July 2011, the government adopted a proposal for a Law on the Assessment of the Impact of Regulations and re-established the Government's Office for Co-ordination of the Impact Assessment of Regulations. In accordance with the 2013-2015 Action Plan, the Office has become a department of the Government's Office for Law and Coordinators have been appointed for implementation in all ministries. Since 2012, all bodies are required to prepare annual regulatory plans to determine which of their planned regulations should pass the impact assessment process itself. However, the impact assessment obligations are met only selectively. The results of the assessment do not stand out at cabinet meetings of the government. The following procedure that evaluates is the quality of the regulation's impact assessment and we're rated 4. The government's legislation office has created a new legislative framework for evaluation. He also developed administrative capacities for the implementation of evaluation procedures and established a stable partnership with representatives of the business community, so they think of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, Croatian Association of Employers, Croatian Chamber of crafts, Croatian Association of banks and some civil society organisations such as the Croatian Law Centre, Croatian Youth Youth, Quality Hostage Forum, Croatian Business Council for Sustainable Development as well as trade unions. However, there is little public involvement in the assessment process and the assessment does not have much impact on regulatory plans. In practice, the attitudes of regulators or agencies are considered to be significantly different in terms of the openness of the policy-making process. Some ministries have opened the whole process of making public law by asking interested parties to return information on draft laws, and other ministries continue to ignore the importance of obtaining feedback from the public, thus disrupting the effectiveness of the entire project. When we talk about the sustainability of the assessment of the effects of the regulations, or the implementation of the whole law-making process, where we are also assessed with a score of 4, they say. Therefore, the assessment of the impact of the regulations should include a wide range of impacts including fiscal, economic, social, ecological, but also the actual quality of impact assessment is low. There is no systematic distinction between the short, medium and long term. The implementation of the evaluation shall contain a selective bias that depends on the position of the proposings and on the implementation of the open policy-making process. Some ministries have opened the entire process of evaluation to the public asking for feedback on the proposed laws by stakeholders. Unfortunately, there are still ministries and agencies that are underprivileged to the public and feedback, which undermines the purpose of assessing the effects of the regulations. A poor communication strategy regarding the application of the assessment has also created further problems, the Croatian government relatively rarely promotes assessment as a tool and thus de facto ignores the efforts of those ministries that implement the assessment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70659	Thank you very much. The next final on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club will be spoken by the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70660	I would not like to look like a prime minister to tell the media what to do and what not to do but to express my view that the media and their employees would be happier to use the instruments of this law more than they have done so far because it is a very important tool that increases the possibility of transparent government action and also significantly increases the ability to point out what is not good at the work of the government. Secondly, the SDP club will be restrained in its first reading on this bill and our support in the second reading will depend on accepting certain proposals already presented by the Commissioner for Information, which has been presented in the debates in the Croatian Parliament in the Commissioner's report, which has been made in the course of the first reading. 4. in the procedure in the Assembly so it would be nice to discuss and hope that the report, which, the infamous proverb that is very often used, "Let the institutions do their job", will not get a version in the version that we now see in some institutions, it is some institutions do, and we will make sure that they have as little work as possible, not so that we are better than to remove their legal powers to do what they have done so far, they will continue to do their work, but this job will no longer interest anyone. So it is the impression that this government is in a permanent and irreparable conflict with independent institutions, that no measure they have taken is going to strengthen or increase their powers but to reduce, that this bill is finally on the trail, and here I hope that the Ministry of Justice and Administration will be able to deny me. I hope, of course, that the relations of the Government's Information Commissioner are not so bad, that it will continue to take this kind of power or not to give new powers, that what started in 2008, continued in 2012 that it will not be rerouted now in 2021, we are anxiously waiting for the final draft of the law and we hope that our black hunch will not come true.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70661	Now, finally, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Kresimir Ackar will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70662	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed and respected fellow MPs. Everyone has the right to information that is of public character, and the bodies of public authorities are owned. Access to this information is based on the democratic principle and the right of all citizens in modern democracies, and that is precisely what enables the development of a transparent and open public government. It has been shown in practice since the Law on the right to access information that it increases the legitimacy of institutions, trust of citizens in power and greatly contributes to the repression of corruption. Citizens have the right to know all the information that is public character, they must be given insight into financial issues, public money spending decisions and all segments of public government activity. The law justified its existence and introduced order in many areas but was observed during its application and certain shortcomings which are precisely the ones which want to be addressed. It is clear from the above that our Government is monitoring the application of the laws adopted and, based on the observation of the case-laws and observations of the citizens themselves, as well as officials from the public administration system, is carefully editing and upgrading the laws and regulations adopted to make them better and more effective for the whole system. In addition to harmonising our legislation with EU legislation, this proposal also contributes to the easier resolution of issues that have proved to be questionable in practice so far. I repeat, citizens need to know how and what public money is spent on and how it decides on issues important for the lives of all citizens but has proved in many examples that, for various reasons, political and other reasons, the right to seek and obtain information has tried to exploit or wrongly interpret the right to seek and obtain information. That is why, in order to prevent the depletion of public authorities, in search of a mass of data without questioning, the existence of public interest in this proposal is also proposed to clearly identify the types of information that must always be available to the public without carrying out a proportionality test. This proposal also further protects applicants who will now be able to, if they are informed of the inability to obtain information for certain reasons, whether it has already been published or declared secret, declare an objection which is then resolved by the application of the law governing the general administrative procedure. These two items, which I have mentioned, are equally protected and applicants, citizens and bodies of the public authority, so that they are not unduly and unfairly treated in search of or providing information in accordance with the Law on the right to access information. It is additionally commendable that the concept of a responsible person is precisely defined, since so far, there have been various interpretations in determining the responsibility of the head of the body, unless the law on the right to access information is followed, thus forcing responsible persons to control the conduct of the service in the application of this Act. What again goes in favour of applicants and citizens. It is justified and extends the deadline from 30 to 60 days for the adoption of a solution to the appeal to be filed by the Commissioner and thus avoids unnecessary court proceedings which have been very often unwarrantedly initiated because of the so-called so-called procedure. The silence of the administration. In addition to what is said, it should be added that the bill also defines new concepts that will facilitate both users and information providers easier to obtain. The obligation to publish dynamic data procedures for reuse immediately after collection is also established and who is not required to comply with the reuse requirement. In any case, as mayor of a big city, they can praise these changes, since they are truly based on the real problems we see on the ground. Finally, I definitely consider this another important segment in the further development of democratic principles and transparency, and I certainly welcome the adoption of an amendment to the Law on the right to access information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70663	And now, finally, on behalf of the Centre and Glass Representatives Club, the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70664	The chairman, fellow MPs and MPs. Before me, Mr. Ackar spoke to the HDZ Club finally, so he listed what all citizens are entitled to and what all state bodies should and should do, and that is all that HDZ in practice does not do through public authorities. So to you, dear colleagues, opposition MPs, I address and appeal to you to stop comparing this law with good standards from other European countries, doing that comparison only at the level of provisions as they are in their form. Focus on the standards of availability of information as they function in practice. There is a key difference between Croatia as it is today, and as it is today, it would never become an integral part of the European Union and what we can see about good practice of behaviour from other countries with which we like to compare. For the way things look in practice, it is enough to go to the Committee's website to decide on a conflict of interest, so there with their website to download an object that applied to Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic and a famous trip to the United States in early January 2017. So all the media possible, all the citizens, all the institutions were looking for information about what was the purpose of this trip. No one has received that information until the day of today, as well as why and how the course of the proceedings went in the first place. First of all, there was no cooperation between the Committee for Conflict of Interest and the Commissioner for Information, because God forbid that interinstitutional cooperation was established in the Republic of Croatia by law. Then, for months and months, the commission sought and sought data, requested evidence, no evidence was received. Then Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic hired the National Security Office and asked that several months later, the road be declared officially secret and qualified. The Commission then made a decision not to initiate the procedure, not because it found that there were no injuries to the procedure, but literally because it did not obtain relevant knowledge because it did not collect the necessary information, documentation and evidence. Therefore, there could be no such information as was required by the national authority to provide the other competent national authorities. And then, to make the paradox bigger, a few months after the new Commission decided not to initiate the procedure, the Commissioner for Information found that the travel orders were publicly available data, so he published a travel order, after the Commission had already suspended the procedure, because it could not solve it, and then it turned out that the order was empty. Now this is the right level of availability of public data and nothing better is the situation and during the term of office of Zoran Milanovic. Now the question is which way as a country we want to go. By way of form or by way of content. So that's one level, and another level I also appeal to, given that some clubs have pointed out that they have their own proposals and amendments, as well as the whole of the law on access to information, as I have spent a year and a few days talking to this assembly about how I sent a complete draft anti-corruption strategy to Parliament. Therefore, the right to defend the state against corruption and corruption as a whole is not the right of any representative club or any political party. It's not specifically my right that is greater or stronger than any of you. I think a complete opposition should be gathered around key anti-corruption mechanisms. We should exchange information between ourselves, which is our minimum common denominator and then install it into the provisions of our joint bill. So to show that we are opposed to the state that Croatia has turned HDZ into. And a third. Some units of local self-government have already established a practice that is more transparent and better than anything that we will long, long, long still have a chance to see at the state level. Well, if we're not already able to go to some other countries, so see how things work in practice there, can't we look at what some of our cities and municipalities have done and then at the state level go that way right now and now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70665	Thank you. We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear Representative Branko Bačić, what is the violation of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70666	Thank you, dear Vice President. Well, colleague Dalia Oreshkovic injured Article 238, which is 4 minutes out of the 5 available to talk about another law that is not at all the subject of today's debate. And then to further abuse the Rules of Procedure, she misused her former duties as president of the Committee, pulled an object relating to the former president of the Republic of Croatia. For example, if she had closed her eyes and accidentally pulled out an object that she was solving, she would certainly have pulled out Mrs. Anka Mrak-Taritash, her colleagues at the club, because she had discussed her conflict of interest at least 20 times during her term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70667	Thank you very much. It was a replica, so I have to give you a warning. Representative Oreshkovic, good. Thank you very much. Now, finally, on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club, the respected representative Zeljko Pavic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70668	Thank you very much. Here I will draw your attention to the fact that there is a minister here among us who has been working on meeting the conditions for accession to the European Union in a way that he had to write a law that we are discussing today. Now, what's the problem? It's sad that today, 7 years, 8 years later, we have to look at this same law where some rights are abolished and reduced, it's not good. Instead of moving towards transparency even more, instead of allowing our citizens to access data faster and easier, instead of having as much information as possible, we will in some way limit those rights or, not to say, eliminate them completely. There are still others here who have worked to meet the conditions for EU accession and it would be a tragedy to limit everything we have done or destroyed or reduced or in some way. So I hope that today we will get answers from the assistants, first of all why not give or why no additional powers are given to the Commissioner for Information, as the first power of punishment? Another question that you would ask and want to get an answer, what is the reason that the duration of the consultation does not last for a minimum of 30 days? And that another article in that same article is then defined when it does not have to be 30 days, or when it may take a shorter time. And yesterday I asked a question, and today I'm going to do it again. Is there any obstacle to defining in the Law that in the event that data already supplied to any legal person or natural person, it shall be notified that the data has been delivered or publicly published, that those persons to whom it has been sent are informed that it has already been done, that it shall be specified exactly where it has been published, or when it has been sent, in which form it has been sent and where such data may be found. It would also be very good if the deadlines for data delivery could be reduced. My colleague here was talking about knowledge, talking about how important information is to us, I'm just going to ask, I'm thinking of reminding you that information is information today, and tomorrow it's actually old news. And if we get that information too late, we actually get nothing and the question is what's the point then the law if it allows some people who are in charge or units of public, excuse me, local self-government unit or the head of public companies, that some data is not delivered at all or delivered too late. It doesn't make sense, and we need to prevent that if we want to have a real state where everything is transparent, in which everything is available to our citizens, who are actually giving out money from their incomes so that the state can function. That would be fair and fair. Here's when we hear the answers from our secretary, I hope then we get information about whether there will be any changes to that law for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70669	Thank you very much. This will end the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met. And now we move to the next point, which is - The final draft law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Mandatory Relations, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 148 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply, amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State Juro Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70672	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs and MPs. At its session, on June 25th, 21st, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Relations. All comments, proposals and opinions given on the proposal of the Law have been considered and the Final Proposal of the Law has been drawn up. Certain nomotechnical changes have been made in relation to the bill discussed in this high house. The final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Mandatory Relations is proposed to comply with the Directive on certain aspects of the contract for the purchase of goods between the Regulation of 2017, the Directive of 2009 and repealing Directive No 44. The European Communities then. Directive 771 of 2019 is a Directive of maximum harmonisation which allows for the derogation from the rules laid down therein only in those cases referred to in the Directive. And it regulates certain aspects of consumer contracts for the purchase of goods. Finally, the bill proposes to redefine the concept of material scarcity of things, introduce specific rules on the obligations of sellers in the case of the purchase of goods and digital elements in consumer contracts. The thing with the digital element is defined as a mobile thing in which digital content or digital services are installed or related to things so that the absence of this digital content or these digital services would prevent the functioning of these things, and the digital element or digital service would be delivered on the basis of a purchase contract. This Act provides that if digital content or services are supplied continuously, the seller of things with digital elements shall be responsible for the lack of digital content or digital services which occur within 2 years of the transfer of risk, and if the purchase contract provides for a continuous supply of digital content or digital service for a period of 2 years, the seller shall be responsible for the lack of digital content or digital service that occurs in the period during which the digital content or service is to be delivered on the basis of the purchase contract. In addition, the obligations of the seller of things with digital elements to ensure the update of digital content or digital services during a certain period of time in the following situations are prescribed. In the case of a one-time supply of digital content or digital service, the seller shall be obliged to provide for the updates necessary to ensure that the matter remains without shortage during which the consumer can reasonably expect in view of the type and purpose of the matter, and taking into account the circumstances and nature of the purchase contract. In the case of continuous supply of digital content or digital service, the seller is obliged to ensure the update needed to keep the matter without a deficiency over a period of 2 years from the risk transition. And if a continuous supply of digital content or service is agreed for a period of more than 2 years, the obligation to ensure an update until the expiry of the period for which the supply of digital content or service has been contracted. In addition, when buying things with digital elements, where a continuous supply of digital content or services is agreed during a given period, the burden of proof that there is no lack of digital content or digital service is on the seller for a period of 2 years from the risk transition. And if a continuous supply of digital content is agreed for more than 2 years, the burden of proof that there is no lack of digital content or digital service is on the seller for the entire period to which the delivery is contracted. This Law also proposes to extend the deadline within which the seller is burdened by evidence that the matter at the time of the transfer of the risk to the customer did not have a deficit from 6 months per year, except in commercial contracts. The hierarchy of the rights of customers is also prescribed in the case of material scarcity of things in such a way that the customer can first choose between repairs or replacements of things, unless the chosen method of removing the deficiencies would be impossible or the other way of removing the shortages would result in disproportionate costs for the seller. If the customer does not receive the required repair, that is, replacing matters may require a reduction of the price or termination of the contract under the prescribed conditions. In addition, the right of the seller to refuse the removal of the deficiencies, if repair and replacement are impossible or it would result in disproportionate costs, taking into account all circumstances of the case. The purchaser's right to pay an unsettled part of the price is also prescribed until the seller fulfils its obligations under responsibility for material shortages of things. The rights of the seller, in respect of which the buyer has exercised the rights of liability for material shortages of things in relation to the previous seller, and the provisions on the guarantee of the correctness of the sold thing are amended. It is proposed that the Law enters into force on 1 January 22nd and applies to purchase contracts concluded after that date. Dear MPs and MPs, proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Mandatory Relations, the Croatian legislative framework is aligned with the acquis of the European Union. These changes will better address the question of the seller's responsibility for material shortages of things, introduce specific rules on the obligations of sellers in the event of the purchase of items with digital elements in consumer contracts, and strengthen consumer rights, or consumers' rights. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70673	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first one's a respected volunteer, Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70674	Thank you, Your Honor, Secretary of State. So at European Union level, a survey of citizens' thinking and views, related to guarantees, has been held, so the vast majority of citizens are convinced that already after the guarantee expires for a particular device, the device is corrupting, it becomes unusable. In this way, basically, we generate a large number of devices that later become a problem and also for environmental and nature, but we also don't generate new jobs, because it would only do so if we or fix these appliances, so we keep them alive. Here's my question, I want to hear your attitude.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70675	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70676	I haven't followed the results of such research, not touching this problem, here, as you can see, we're correcting consumer rights. It is expected that such an initiative will take place from the European Union on the initiative of some Member States or within our national legislative framework and there is no reason not to improve the consumer position in this segment as regards manufacturers and sellers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70677	Your Honor, Mr. Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70678	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State Martinovic, you yourself said that this bill harmonizes the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union and harmonizes with the acquis. The fact is that since its entry into the European Union, Croatia has so far adopted a series of directives that have caused certain different effects on the national law of the Republic of Croatia. However, sometimes like today, we have the opportunity to adopt directives that have a concrete and direct impact on the quality of life of our citizens, but in some ways also on their safety and ultimately on their financial security. Therefore, I think that this directive is only going to help citizens and in security regarding all that these amendments bring.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70679	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70680	Dear representative, yes, absolutely. So this is yours I would say a positive comment on this legal solution. So, as a Member State, of course, we are obliged to implement with our legislative framework what is adopted in Brussels in the European Parliament. In this case, it's not just those obligations. This is really something that we strive to do, which is to improve the position of the weaker, which is always the position of the consumer. Here, indeed, the deadlines are extended, and the matter of digital content that we in the Law on Mandatory Relations is fully regulated, which is the old law of 76th, I think, so we didn't quite have it to expect it to be implemented, but also to advocate the improvement of the consumer's position in this relationship of weaker and stronger.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70681	Thank you very much. I am opening a debate on this law and will be the first to speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Marija Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70682	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear state secretary, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Here is how the Secretary of State announced the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Relations. This proposal proposes amendments and amendments to the law to comply with EU Directive 2019/771 and for better regulation of the responsibility of the seller for material shortages of things. Directive 1999/44 of the EC, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 May 1999 on certain aspects of wholesale sales and on guarantees for such goods was included in the current Law on Mandatory Relations, in a way that also applied to non-consummation contracts. This Directive is replaced by Directive 2019/771 on certain aspects of the contract on the sale of goods. The objective of the adoption of this Directive is to remove key barriers linked to contractual law which interfere with cross-border trade, and to address the problems faced by consumers and business entities, and to avoid the costs incurred by business entities due to differences in the rights of the Member States' contractual rights. Namely, Directive 1999/44 was a Directive of minimum harmonisation and allowed Member States to introduce or retain stricter provisions than those contained in the Directive in order to ensure a higher level of consumer protection and this led to differences in national rules in the area of consumer contract law. This is also recognised as the main obstacle to cross-border sales of goods, and with the aim of resolving this problem, this Directive has been adopted with which we are now harmonising the Law on Mandatory Relations and, as a directive of maximum regulation, which allows derogations from the rules laid down therein only in the cases provided for in the Directive. In order to comply with the Directive, the following amendments and additions to the Law on Mandatory Relations are proposed. First of all, redefine the concept of material scarcity. Introducing specific rules on the obligations of sellers in the event of the purchase of items with digital elements in consumer contracts, which was detailed by the Secretary of State. To extend the deadline in which the seller is burdened with evidence that the matter at the time of the risk transition did not have a deficit of 6 months per year, except in commercial contracts. Then prescribe a hierarchy of customer rights in the event of a material lack of things that can be selected between repairs or replacements of things, unless the chosen way would be impossible or otherwise would result in disproportionate costs taking into account all circumstances of the case. Then, if the customer does not receive the required repair or replacement, it may require a reduction of the price or termination of the contract under the legal conditions. It is also necessary to prescribe the right of the seller to refuse the removal of the deficiencies if repair and replacement are impossible or it would result in disproportionate costs. To prescribe the right of the buyer to pay an unsettled part of the price until the seller fulfils his obligations under responsibility for the material shortage of things. Then, to prescribe the rights of the seller in relation to which the buyer has exercised the rights of liability for material shortages of things in relation to the previous seller, and to amend the provisions on the guarantee of the correctness of the sold thing. In accordance with the provisions of the Directive, it is proposed that the Law enters into force on 1 January 2022 and applies to contracts concluded after that date. The implementation of this Act does not require additional resources in the state budget. Since these amendments and additions to the Law on Mandatory Relations will certainly improve the position of consumers, but they will also precisely determine the responsibility of the seller for material disadvantages of things, and in this way we will assume in our legislation the property of the European law of the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support such a proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70683	The next Club of Representatives will be the Homeland Movement, and a respected representative, Ruzica Vukovac, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70684	Thank you. Accordingly, Directive 2019/771 is a Directive of maximum harmonisation which allows for the derogation from the rules laid down therein only in those cases which are listed in the Directive itself. Therefore, Member States may not retain in their national law or introduce provisions derogating from the provisions laid down in Directive 2019/771, including lighter or stricter provisions ensuring a different level of consumer protection unless otherwise provided for in that Directive. Since technological progress has led to the growth of the market for goods that has integrated digital content, or digital services, or is linked to them, and given the growing number of such devices and the fact that consumers are increasingly using Directive 2019/771 also contains rules applicable to contracts for the purchase of such products. The Directive applies to contracts for the purchase of goods with digital elements if the absence of integrated or linked digital content or digital services would prevent the operation of goods and that digital content or that digital service would be supplied with goods on the basis of a purchase contract. It is no doubt that this harmonisation with the legislation of the European Union, or the implementation of that Directive, introduces order into a fairly unsettled market for digital services and content. The provisions of the Directive are very clear and it is to believe that their introduction into our laws will, in particular, bring more trust to citizens, consumers, the whole system of purchase, purchase and use of digital services or content. If we were to metaphorically look at the current relations between customers and traders, we could rightly say that in the Arena, David and many of the goliaths behind which are multimillion concerts and top legal teams. In all of this, a small man has little chance. Hiding these fine letters on contracts, making false promises about the quality of certain content or services are a everyday phenomenon and not only in Croatia. I must admit that to praise the amendment to Article 410, which states that a buyer who has timely and neatly informed the seller of a lack is therefore authorised to and to require the seller to remove the deficiencies. Then request the seller to hand over other items without shortage or to demand a proportionate price reduction or to declare that the contract is terminated. We are left to observe whether these new legal obligations will be truly respected by our traders because we are aware that sometimes irresponsible individuals or companies are trying to get out of these obligations of respect for the given guarantee. This will prove again on the ground our State Inspectorate. The buyer will also have the right to choose between repairs or replacements of things, and also commendably and logically, in fact, then it sounds like amendments to Article 425(2) that say that when the replacement of things or its essential repair of the warranty period begins to run again from the replacement or from the return of the fixed thing. As I pointed out in my replica to the Secretary of State, therefore, there is a research available to citizens of the European Union and which shows a strong belief in the claim that manufacturers place on the market devices that break down immediately after the deadline has expired. Without any romance for old times' sake, we're all emotionally sensitive to the stoves, refrigerators or washing machines that we grew up working for 30 years became part of the family. The next important part of the regulation of mandatory relationships is the one about respecting sustainable consumption by creating millions of devices that we will throw out in just a year or two actually have a strong impact on the environment, and we know that the waste of products creates the least jobs, and the repair, re-use and re-use of far more. It will also need to redefine the meaning of the concept of material disadvantage because it seems that there might be a different reading and interpretation by customers, producers and legislators themselves, which will be seen very quickly and through the efficiency assessment system let's hope. It's final. There's a new time already. The digitization of society, including an individual, is developing in geometric progress and it is good to bring ourselves into line with new challenges and new opportunities. The amendment of the Law on Mandatory Relations brought into line with Directive 2019/771 shall be timely on both the customer and consumer sides and the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club will not be a problem to support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70685	The next Club of Representatives will be the Social Democrats. The Honorable representative Ivana Posavec Krivec will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70686	Thank you, Vice President. State Secretary, this legislative proposal lays down the legislation of the Republic of Croatia and complies with the legislation of the European Union by extending already referred to here as the Directive. The objectives of the Directive in question are to remove barriers to cross-border trade, reduce the uncertainty of business entities due to complex legal frameworks and reduce costs and ensure greater consumer protection. The Directive does not allow derogations from the rules laid down in national legislation. So we are obliged to apply it in its fullness even though it does not affect Member States' freedom to regulate at all aspects of contract law. As the most important newspaper proposed in the provisions on the liability of sellers for material disadvantages things are redefine the concept of material defects, introducing the necessary rules on the obligations of sellers in case of purchase of things with digital elements, extending the time limit in which the burdenholder is proved that the thing at the time of the risk transition did not have a shortage and from 6 months to a year. Also prescribed is the hierarchy of the right of the customer in case of material shortage of things, the customer can choose between repairs or replacements of things, and only then between price reductions or contract terminations. The seller may refuse to remove deficiencies if the repair and replacement is impossible or would result in unreasonable costs, and the customer has the right to deny payment of the outstanding part of the price until the seller fulfils its obligations. Provisions on the guarantee of the correctness of the sold matter are also amended. However, it is noticeable that the Republic of Croatia is in its laws, which is an obligation as a full member of the European Union, bringing legislation into line with EU legislation. But at the Social Democrats Club, is the Government of the Republic of Croatia considering adjusting this law in a way that will benefit the majority in Croatia, and, above all, the part that determines debt relations means that the debtors have a relationship with the believer? For which material disadvantages does the seller answer? The seller is responsible for the material disadvantages that the matter had at the time of the risk to the customer, usually giving things to the consumer at the moment. And for those material disadvantages that occur after the transition of risks to the consumer, if they are the result of the cause that existed before this does not correspond. This law, in terms of protection of consumer rights, raises concerns among consumers. Why? Because throughout the text of the final draft of the law, the concept of a reasonable period of time is withdrawn. Thus, it is stated that if the consumer fails to install, within a reasonable period, the update of the items with digital elements in consumer contracts, the seller is not responsible for the lack resulting exclusively from the failure of the installation of the update. Furthermore, for repairing or replacing things, the seller is also left with a reasonable period of time. The termination of the consumer contract for failure also takes place over a reasonable period of time for failure. In order not to list further, such formulations leave room for the manipulation of the seller, while the consumer is placed in an unfavourable and insecure position, so it is necessary to define the duration of the deadline rather than for it to be specified in the description. So far, the reasonable deadline has not been defined. Some institutions called for 45 days, but in practice the deadline was much longer, so sometimes repair or replacement lasted for months. If a reasonable time limit is correctly defined, each consumer has the right to request the termination of a contract or a new product during that period, thereby significantly improving the position of the consumer. The definition of a reasonable period of time is referred to in point 55 of Directive 2019/771. In order to protect consumers from the risk of prolonged delays, any repair or replacement should be successfully completed within a reasonable period. As deemed reasonable for the completion of repairs or replacements, it should be appropriate to provide the shortest time needed to complete the repair or replacement. That period should be objectively determined taking into account the nature and complexity of the goods, nature and complex non-compliance and the effort needed to complete the repair or replacement. When implementing this Directive, Member States should be able to interpret the concept of a reasonable time limit for the completion of the repair or replacement of the fixed deadlines envisaged to be made possible and may generally be considered reasonable for the repair or replacement of certain product categories. The Directive tells Member States that national legislation can allow consumers to refuse goods with a material deficiency and to seek immediate replacement or termination of the contract. If a material deficiency occurs within a short period of time after the delivery of a goods which must not at any time be longer than 30 days which the proposer has not done with the law. Therefore, we at the Social Democrats Club suggest that this provision be installed because practice shows that very many consumers have problems with certain products mainly smart devices within 30 days of delivery. And we see no reason why this right would not be incorporated into our legislation, because it is illogical that the purchased product immediately goes to repair. Therefore, the Secretary of State today, during the entire debate, stressed that you would listen and respect everything that would come as proposals, so on behalf of the Social Democrats Club during this debate, we will table amendments. We hope that these amendments will improve the position of consumers, or we hope that you will respect these amendments, and this will also mean that we will vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70687	The next Club of Representatives will be that Bridge. The honourable representative Marin Miletic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70688	The Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Reiner, the Honorable Secretary of State. All right, it's Friday, 14 o'clock for 55 minutes, sort of an interesting time. But there's us here, five of us with a basketball dictionary. Here are two colleagues from HDZ and there are four of them from the opposition. Right? Did I count it right? Well, that's a good basketball team. All right. As far as these amendments to the Law on Mandatory Relations are concerned, this is one law that we have nothing to discuss at all. Namely, the Directive of the European Union, which we are taking over from this Law, is so strict that Member States do not have the right to choose the way and method of implementing the Directive, but it must be implemented mainly as it is written. Let me explain it to my Croatian people again. It's about like a house. We come men, we talk whatever we want, we pretend we're important, we talk, and then a woman comes in and she says it's about to be. Here I have now explained the relationship of the Republic of Croatia and therefore within the European Union And how different is that? [[- A bogeyman.]] And thank God you have women so you can listen to them. It is, however, important that we know how and why this European Directive has come into play and what it and this Law mean for our citizens. Several years ago, the European Union launched intensive activities on the new regulation of consumer rights. As two basic topics, consumer rights have been imposed with regard to some new forms of goods and services on the market, which are linked to new digital or digitalised goods and services in legal traffic. And that's part of the story of our law today. The second part of the story concerns the need for consumer rights across the European Union in all Member States to be equal. In its analytical documents, the European Commission has reportedly recognised that different levels of consumer rights in different Member States have a negative impact on cross-border trade and burden on traders selling their goods and services outside the borders of the country in which they are established. In this regard, the European Commission has carried out an analysis of the legal framework of all EU Member States and concluded that at least under the regulation of six Member States, there is a legal standard, above the standard of consumer rights, while most other Member States have lower consumer rights standards. Following these analyses, the European Commission adopted this much lower and more unfavourable consumer protection standard than the one to be applied throughout the European Union and proposed such a directive, which has been adopted and adopted today in the Assembly and in our legislation as I said in the introduction. We can talk about whatever we want, but the last one will come. In particular, if my debate wasn't very abstract, you know that I speak, I like to speak both in pictures and in poetic expressions. So somehow she can't escape from me at all that love of words. This is, however, an amendment to Article 410. Mandatory relationship law. According to the current law, the consumer is so far if he buys some deficient thing he has the right of choice to require one of the 4 options. First, require the seller to remove the lack. Second, to require the seller to hand over the other thing without fail. Third, to demand a lower price and fourth, Drazen's number, to declare that he is terminating the contracts. Under this proposed law, consumers must first take advantage of the first prescribed option, mainly repairing things or replacing them, and if so. By repairing whether, failing to exercise its right then can only resort to the following possibilities, and only at the very end when they exhaust all possibilities can they demand the termination of the contract. I was talking about Drazen about Petrovic. You know that, Secretary of State. To record the words of one of our legal experts. I quote: “The European Union’s understanding of this does not take into account local opportunities for a minority group of Member States, nor did it have any relevance to the European Union. From the perspective of the European legislator, which is driven by broader interests, this can be understood in some ways." end of quote. So, colleagues and colleagues, the European legislator is primarily behind the harmonisation of the European market and is not at all concerned that consumers in some countries, and I am now talking of course about our country because it is in the interest of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, so that consumers may lose some of the rights they have so far. As far as we're concerned here in the Croatian Parliament, we've been brought before the final act with this Act and served here as seals. So, we're going to hit that seal and it's going to be a powerful, powerful seal on Europeans who are increasingly, I must say, not taking care of our local opportunities, our local needs and our local specificities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70689	We have final words, too. The first will be the HDZ Representatives' Club, respected representative Nikola Mazar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70690	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament Mr. Reiner, dear Secretary of State Mr. Martinovic, esteemed colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives here, as my dear colleague Miletic has said, unfortunately I have no such statement since I am also a lawyer by profession, so I may be a little more boring to speak to our citizens and citizens. But I'll do the same in a few minutes, maybe say some of the things we've heard, but also some of the things we haven't heard. Followed by counterpart Miletic, this directive is a little stricter than the previous directive, but precisely because the previous directive has minimally entered national legislation, and if we look from its application to this day it has practically been more than 10 years. In those 10 years, both the EU and EU members have noticed and seen some shortcomings in the directive. In particular, we could hear about cross-border sales, cooperation, everything else, so what creates problems for citizens, as well as legal entities related to and for the security of purchase in other countries, precisely for reasons to achieve, you have used the word harmonisation, but perhaps also synchronisation, and let us say the alignment of rights and opportunities of services between EU Member States. This directive therefore goes with it, we can say a little more stringent or maximum impact on national legislation. I personally think that this is good, first of all for the reasons we need to and must enable our consumers, or our more vulnerable groups, to have a sense of security not only in the Republic of Croatia but also in other EU countries when they come to them and where they want to use their rights, and on the other hand, so that they can be sure if they buy certain products or certain goods that they will have the same legal protection as they would have in the Republic of Croatia. What may be important for us to point out, therefore, that we have heard a series of benefits that are brought that after these changes and additions, or the final proposal of the Law on Mandatory Relations of the Citizens and Citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and therefore we also have some additional benefits that we have not had so far, from the very extension of the deadline of 6 months per year except in commercial contracts to a series of other activities that have in some way become our reality, our present, and this is related to digital forms all of which in some way before us may still have been an abstraction or perhaps a near future that has become all present and simply none of us is able to function in a way without certain digital parts that come into the products that we buy. Of course we felt it, we heard it from our colleague, that sometimes it happens to us that our product breaks down just when the guarantee or guarantee expired, and then we remember and then we don't know either older cars or something that we see on our streets today that the correct ones are driving regardless of 30, 40 or 50 years old. Of course, all of these concerns that are opened to manufacturers, sellers to customers and consumers suggest that further empowerment is needed, further create security and in certain contractual and mandatory relationships to protect individuals, in order to protect citizens and citizens who do not have it, we can say free professional experience about certain things when they buy and, of course, cannot even see certain things that the manufacturer knows. So the manufacturer when he sells us some digital thing he knows about this digital thing everything. I don't know if I have a cell phone, I know how to use 3-4 things on it digitally, but I don't know what to say my 8-year-old niece knows. They were born with it, they live with it and of course it is necessary and state to protect first and foremost their older citizens when they take something digital, and they themselves are not aware of what it is and how long it takes, so that they can get and then get a certain return of services or the return of their funds. As for counterparts, Miletic said about customer rights to address the shortcomings that have been listed so far, and now they go in a certain order. I don't think it can harm customers themselves, given that, above all, customer care is taken not only through the Law on Mandatory Relations but also through the Consumer Protection Act and through other laws, and I believe that this is only one progress of the present to protect our fellow citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70691	Thank you. Now, finally on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Arsen Bauk, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70692	I have to admit, it's rare for me to refer on the same day to two presentations of the same representative. Let's just say fellow Miletic did it. So I can even agree with you that we are stamping here, but our representatives also participated in Directive 2019771 of the European Parliament and of the Council. Which I think is either the resolution minister or the prime minister, which I would not like to enter now, in detail. Therefore, this awareness that we are, that the EU is not some superseded organization in Brussels that gives us its missionary visions, so we are doing it, but that this institution is democratic in which we have entered the foundation of the people's will at the referendum and in which our representatives are also taking part. You tell your colleague Miletic that he has no respect for minority groups, so it was quoted, well, you, when you explained this, also mentioned one stereotype about a woman holding four cantons of houses or, as it were, as it already goes. These minority forms, minority forms, you didn't respect them, but I believe you could find a parallel, but one, one detail. Croatia is not the smallest member of the EU, there are even smaller ones than us, let's say Slovenia. Slovenia has fought very hard for its interests, for example, not what comes to mind at first is the issue of this wine, Terran, right? So we had to fight for our interests within the EU and then we managed to fight. And we, we and they together are smaller than many, a number of EU countries. And this is what you are, and that is why you have made a good point at the issue of our participation in the adoption of the law or directive in the European Parliament and the Council, each party represented in the European Parliament through its representative group and the question of consumer protection is something in which, for example, our representative Biljana Borzana in the European Parliament has profiled herself as a representative in her first term fighting for consumer rights among other things and the quality of the product that we in Croatia have from the same producers for this within the EU. And then the producers started to justify this to be different from these customs, so that's why there's less of this, less of it, and that's not the case. This law doesn't differ much from the law in the first reading, I think that said, just changed one, one expression. I would like to refer to two things in this particular sense. I can agree with the definition of a reasonable time limit that, or that a reasonable time limit cannot be defined for all cases and that it is ultimately in a court which decides whether or not it is based on some criteria. And I'm sorry that it wasn't considered or partially accepted a proposal that concerned tight interest not from the point of view that now, especially in terms of what comes first in paying what is, which is first taken down. So, the fact is that due to the economic crisis, and especially now to the pandemic crisis, it is still becoming increasingly difficult to repay debts and loans that in this sense interest represent a certain number of our fellow citizens a major problem and that in this regulation relations between those large ones, which are usually banks, multinational companies that have their own legal teams, and also these smaller companies and consumers who, as Mazar said, the individual that the state should have sided a little more in this case while, at least in the course of the crisis. And in that sense, in that sense, you might have to consider a different way of calculating tight interest when returning, when the one who is in debt when, when paying and returning this, but not fully what is owed. In our first reading, we did not support this law, he did not change much compared to the second reading, so our position remains the same, and if the amendments change, then we will reconsider that view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70693	Now, finally, on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, the honourable representative Željko Pavić will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70694	Thank you, well-respected chairman, secretary, colleagues and colleagues. There's even more Miletic here than there is for one crew, three, two, three, three, good. I'm going to look back a little bit on the articles of the law relating to digital content and the digital elements that are being delivered because I think it's extremely important, we've already talked about it in the Digital Content Delivery Act, so there's already one part of it defined, but I think it's good to draw attention to the seller or manufacturer having to be responsible for delivering these contents as long as, minimally, as long as it takes a guaranteed deadline and I don't think it's controversial. What is, what is a bigger problem is whether this supply of these digital content will really be continuous and whether our customers, our fellow citizens, will really be able to accept it in the form that is acceptable to them on their devices. Let us not forget that we have one part of our citizens who do not have the ability to receive these digital content that they do not know how to use and that we need to ensure with all these manufacturers or sellers a service that will ensure that such customers deliver these digital content to the media on their doorstep and even make it possible to deliver as much as possible to the device they have bought. I think it's minimal what we can do because otherwise, one part of our fellow citizens will be cut off from using this or the device, or they will have options that they had in the former version to say that, or what was that day's version of the delivery. What was, of course, controversial here, and what we were almost all talking about, and in our first reading, that's the famous article. In 410, where we are talking about repairs and delivery of goods that have been delivered and after that has been broken down in a short time, I think it would be good to introduce additional items in this article, we will also propose amendments, I hope that this will be accepted by the government and that we will actually help our fellow citizens to come in a better way and achieve their rights to purchase these products that have potentially come to their home in an invalid state. In fact, we heard earlier in the presentation, I don't know who was saying it, that it's actually an important moment of surrender if at that moment the object of the sale is correct that the thing is done, but there may be a malfunction during the transport, or that some malfunction that existed before, and which has not been seen afterwards caused a major malfunction, or even perhaps complete dysfunction of the product, which may be a major problem for our citizens. I'm not going to talk again about the examples I talked about in the last reading, I think you all remember what I was saying, so I think we should change that, and we've also put another amendment there, so I hope that it will be accepted to the general satisfaction and, of course, depending on whether you accept or do not accept the amendments, so we will vote in favour of that law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-05-0.u70695	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate on this point, we will vote on it when the conditions are met, and we will stop working for today and we will continue working on Wednesday at 9:30, 10 November first item will be the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts, first reading, P.Z. number 207. I want a nice weekend. Session adjourned at 3:14 p.m.
