ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u27299	The next SDP representative's club is on behalf of which the respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u27300	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, the Croatian public. We've finished another session of HS, we've got Easter coming up, and I'm sure we can get the calm souls back to our seats because we've done a good job. We did a good job because we refused to interpret the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, we refused to talk about how money is distributed from European funds, whether it is important to get money from these funds, because nobody else is interested because it could happen to us that in certain parts of Croatia and only those who have certain party cards remain. We also talked about whether there is a project called Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem or if it's something else. We are constantly engulfed with the main billions that are being poured into Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, as they live better, as so far the unprecedented development has never been in those environments. However, again, we are denied these exact figures, figures that some are constantly trying to extort to us and interpret to be how they evaluate it. So, for example, only according to HGK sources, the comparative display of basic indicators in Osijek-Baranja County tells a different story entirely. Namely, the population number, the mid-2015 estimate in Osijek-Baranja County was 294,000 inhabitants, 2019 was 272,000. Number of evicted population in 2015 4.458. Member States shall ensure that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Total migration balance in 2015 minus 2,634, 2019 almost unchanged 2,557. Natural population growth 2015 minus 1.557, 2019 minus 622. Number of students enrolled in primary school, beginning of school year 2015. 22.283, 2019. 20.503. Here's just a few data for just one county that is supposed to get the most from this project that's been carried out here according to the government for how many years. Here's just a concrete indicator, that's the results we're talking about. Are people going back to Slavonia? No, I don't. Do you live better in Slavonia? No, I don't. Do they live better, does economic activity expand? The answer is no again. And then a man with a breakthrough can wonder what the point of Project Slavonia, Baranja and Srem is? Are these coins being poured into those who should, whether money is distributed from the European funds measured, so according to the evaluations of the competition, according to what should be contained or still be favored, or is there a abuse of position, or is there a conjecture and nepotism? You can conclude on your own from a few very basic data. But I am afraid, as I said at the beginning of the presentation, that in certain environments, including the east of Croatia, only the members of one political option with a party card will be left very quickly, is that it is the only prerequisite for you to get a job, to get money from European funds and to have a future. So we also brought the Seed Act that will certainly help the troubled east of Croatia, which is still dominantly relying on agriculture, we will burden our producers even more, not only in Slavonia but also beyond, we will burden producers both in Drniš and in Split and in Imotski and Osijek and in Karlovac. I'm also afraid that one political party is beginning to act as if this country is its lazy, its playground, and this is the case from Drnis, today's example from Drnis when HDZ gives children food, watch out for children, kindergarten children without a product declaration, but that's why with a big HDZ sticker. Well, kids and parents take a good look at that cake, eat that bitter-taste cake, and there's a party logo on that cake instead of the declaration that took your future away from you and your children.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u27301	Thank you very much. We have also completed our work today, but let me also conclude the 6th session of this assembly and I want all parliamentary representatives and MPs and their families, all the workers and employees of the assembly and, of course, all the citizens of Croatia happy Easter and much happiness in life, beware, beware of these times of the pandemic and celebrate Easter as always in the family circle. I wish you all the best, and I'll see you at the beginning of the 7th session. Thank you very much. [[SESSION Interrupted at 13.31 p.m.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 13.03 HOURS]] Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are going to present a position on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives, and on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns will be the first to speak to the esteemed representative Marko Milanović litre, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u27353	Tone, you don't know the year of birth. Perinka, Nediljka, Franko 6 years old, God 7 years old, Jela 8 years old, Luc and Ivanka 11 years old, Ivan 12 years old, Petar, Dusan, Ciro 13, David, Peter, Ljudevit 16, Jela 18 years old, Andja 30 years old, Ana 42, Luca 44, Jela 44, Jela 51, Marija 54, Stipan 60 and the oldest was Mate Milanović litre, former National MP and representative of the Croatian Army for Dalmatia, was 63. when he was killed cowardly in the island of Cetina on March 28, 1944. The capital of Italy and the arrival of the Italian army, the departure of the Italian army from the Cetina region, in September '43. German forces are coming to Sinj. The arrival of the Germans continues to fight the Partisans in the island's region under the Kamešnik hills. On March 27th, continuous German attacks attacked the Germans with fewer losses that led them to action against Partizan troops along the Cetina River on 27 March. They came to the island on March 28th to gather members of the Milanovic litre family, Milanović Trapo and Plavša with an explanation that a speech will be held, and new documents will be submitted to them. They locked them in the house, and set up machinery spaces on the door and windows, and opened fire on innocent people whose uninvited partisans took away food and stayed in their homes. In the end, they set fire to the same houses. 11 members of the Plavša family, 36 members of the Milanovic Trapo family and 24 of the Milanovic litre family were killed in the massacre. Carlo Milanovic litre, my dida, survived the slaughter along with several other family members hiding under the dead bodies of his loved ones. The Partisan forces had withdrawn from the village earlier, and they knew well what would happen in the village, but they left the fear and cowardice of the locals to the savages of the Germans and Chetniks. The people of the island remembered well who helped them as much as they did and who was running away. This fact is discussed with the island’s surviving inhabitants. The eyewitness Šima Milanović litre in her testimony said, they took us to Ivan Milanović Litra's house, there were over 30 of us, when they picked us up they told us in Serbian that we were not afraid of anything because we were not going to be anything. We were looking forward to calming them down because we were glad when the army came to save us from the Partisans. With that terrible and criminal slaughter, he had nothing to do with it. This disgusting act almost to the extermination has destroyed our entire family along with the Trapicians and Plasics. At the time, Stanko, fra. Stanko Milanović litre, a military reserve soul-care provider with a permanent residence in Sinj, was the victim of partisan propaganda and lies. The communists accused Fr. Stanka is guilty of slaughtering his family in his home island and other sub-meat villages. A generation was destroyed that day, a Croatian village where the most devastating hatred and evil that it brought was destroyed. The Partisans tried him without a defender and a defense that was denied him. Humiliated and disfellowshipped, they gave him all the blames that occurred in Sinj and the province of Cetina, and they accused him both eventually and sentenced him to death. The communists were aware that they invented frat. Stankov's responsibility in the massacre of the island, so Viktor Novak, in his section "Magnum Crimen", does not involve the slaughter of Kameshnica. In early April of '44. The 70th Chetnik, Momčal Djujic, was arrested on suspicion of involvement in a massacre that was soon released despite sent educational notes by the army's summit at the time. This crime marked the generation of our families and should serve as a warning to future generations. Totalitarian regimes have marked our history, it is our responsibility that all of us never repeat such horrors again.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u27354	Thank you. Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the Centre and GLAS in a name to be spoken by the respected representative Marijana Puljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u27550	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I want to talk a little bit about IT industry today. The IT industry in Croatia, which should be strategically important as a generator for economic development and for the occasion of today's topic, so the European Commission proposed to its Member States last week the adoption of new laws to start ups. It is an initiative that aims to make the EU the most attractive place to develop the start-ups. The EU's Start Up National Declaration calls on Member States to amend the law on stock options and visas so that the start of Europe's visas can attract the best workers from around the world. Or to keep them in Europe instead of going to the U.S. or UK. The news quickly spread that this initiative and the legal framework have been signed by all member states except Hungary, Bulgaria and you will hit Croatia. But the news has been checked by the government's office that says Croatia will still sign the declaration in early April, and they are late probably because they cannot agree on who will sign it, who will be in charge. In 2018 it also happened with the declaration, the European Declaration of Artificial Intelligence, and we did not sign it when all the other members signed it a few months later, but after that we do not see any shifts, we do not have until today's National Strategy for Artificial Intelligence. Several data on the state of the IT industry in Croatia. According to the analysis in 2019, the total income of the Croatian IT industry reached 27 billion kn with an annual growth of 12.4%. in the last 5 years, the turnover of Croatian IT companies has increased at an annual rate of 11.2%. Since 2019, the IT sector has employed 33,000 employees with an annual growth of 9.1%. The IT industry invests in research and development, far more than the rest of the business sector, from 2016 to 2018. The IT industry increased the number of employees in research and development jobs by almost 135% while the investments also increased by 135%. Although domestically, the IT industry is still significantly lagging behind international competition within the EU's 28 countries. Although we are growing relatively quickly, others are growing, so by reaching the EU average in the next 5 years, it would take an average annual growth of IT... The 17.2% Incentive index is also for today's speech, and news from the other day that no one from the information industry can apply to the government's digital transition competition. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Imagine the absurd, we're talking digital transition. The Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development launched a public consultation on the first annual competition from the EU Funds for micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, although it is intended for a digital green transition to the competition, they cannot apply their projects to IT companies. Today perhaps even the healthiest part of our economy is software exporters. Before this pandemic, and even today at a time when other industries have problems due to lockdown and complete changes in operating conditions, software exporters have achieved good results and growth, she would say to the system despite. The entire IT industry and start-up companies in Croatia have learned to manage themselves because they know that they cannot expect any support from the system. They find investors themselves, cooperate in Croatia with others, even other embassies that bring them together with agencies in their countries to create new opportunities and new values when their own state will not, there will be who. As the state refers to the IT industry, the economy’s periance, unlike some other countries such as Romania, Poland, Ukraine, Belarus, which offer relief, for example. IT industry employees have freed income and contribution tax payments, Croatia has not defined any incentive measures specific to IT industry. So who's working to encourage the development of Croatian companies' business? Not Croatian institutions, but e.g. e. e. e. e. e. Indian or British who have organized a series of events in recent months on a line workshop... attract investment in Croatian start-ups or cooperate with business development opportunities in the markets of India and Great Britain. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the whole IT industry and startup companies in Croatia have learned to manage themselves because they know that the system support cannot expect, imagine where they would be to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u27551	Thank you. Next is the HDZ Representatives' Club on behalf of which the respected representative Josip Begonja will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u27656	Dear Vice President HS, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. Today, in my presentation as a representative, I will speak on behalf of the HDZ Club, but also as mayor of the small town of Dalmatinska zagora, the city of Drniš, which is spatially occupied by the central geotransport position of that part of the mountain belonging to the Sibenik-Knin County and whose surface is 355 km2, and which in the Homeland War was robbed and destroyed to the ground, but the spirit of our inhabitants has not been destroyed, our will to live, for the restoration and further development of our end, because of the unargumented criticism of everything and every local environment has no benefit. I would also like to recall that part of my colleagues and colleagues are on several occasions from this place, giving their views or views of their clubs on the fact that the Republic of Croatia has received nothing by its membership in the EU, even more than that membership has more harm than its benefits, in one word it seems to me that it is about colleagues who represent the example of Eurosceptics. It is also said in fears and around the introduction of the euro as means of payment into our payment system, which should be over a year, two, which I also cannot accept as some valid argument. For example, Drniš, I will try to say exactly the opposite, namely, in the last 4.5 years, the city of Drniš has realised or implemented 20 projects funded by EU funds, from municipal infrastructure, social infrastructure, tourist infrastructure, including projects such as entrepreneurship, local waste disposal projects, energy efficiency of multiple units, pre-school and school institutions, then projects co-financed by the European Social Fund, all of which are more than 135 million kunas, of which are the grants of around 97 million kunas, but also the funds provided by the Government of the Republic of Croatia from national sources, around 28 million and the city of Drniš has invested about 10 million of its own budgets. If the Government of the Republic of Croatia had not through the tax reform packages made it possible for the local self-government to increase tax revenues, we would simply not have those 10 million kunas of our own participation. From investment in municipal infrastructure, it is important to highlight the project to improve the water supply and sewerage system by installing wastewater treatment devices, worth more than 47 million kuna, of which 34 million are grants to EU funds while from national sources is around 14 million kuna. In addition to these and other municipal projects such as the recycling yard, the purchase of utility vehicles, from social infrastructure and beyond, to what I have stated, energy renovations, sacredly expensive without EU membership, and with this in connection with EU funds, the city of Drniš could not do anything, especially in the last 4.5 years as far as it has been realized. But what is important is to note, which is that today we have ready-made new projects, projects that have already been issued and building permits, whose estimated value is more than 80 million kn and I am convinced that thanks to the new multi-annual financial envelope as well as the funds that will be realised through the national recovery programme that the Government of the Republic of Croatia negotiated with the EU by more than 24 billion euros, that the city of Drniš will implement its projects in the next period until 2027 and 2030 respectively. I especially hope that from this multi-year financial envelope we will also be able to co-finance our great need to build a home for the elderly and powerless, for which we are calling these days a tender for the production of project technical documentation because our space lives over 1820 people older than 75 years, mainly in single households. And finally, here we are dear colleagues and colleagues, listening to some colleagues who say I'm paraphrasing, I'm your truth and there's no other truth but mine. Maybe that and that truth sits out there somewhere in some part of their Dalmatian fire, but in my work it's not. Today, we are proud to say that Drniš, after rising from the ashes of war, has over 1780 employees and could soon have more than 2,000 employees. There's something else important to know. The town of Drnis is the only local unit of this part of the Dalmatian Zagora that is not an assisted area. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u27795	The next Club of Representatives will be that HSS and HSU, and the honourable representative of Silvano Hrelja will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u27796	Dear Mr. Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The old proverb in our people is “don’t wait for dinner from the village, move. ” I've always been open to communicating with citizens, I've been doing it more and more often since I've been freed from the party president's duties, I've received even more calls, I've been reading more e-mails and more letters, I'm doing it freely, I've been relaxed, I've been creative. Dear colleagues and colleagues, if you do not, I recommend you begin. My dear pensioners and pensioners, speak, scream, call, press. If you don't, I urge you from this place to do it and as much as possible. If you do, then I urge you to do even more. If you've never tried that, try it, start. We must, as representatives of HS, know the people who choose us and represent us, the people with whom we share land, air, space, we must know how they live, what they live, or survive, what they hope, whether they have enough for lunch, whether they have meat, whether they have fruit, whether they have milk, that we must know. We need to be open to their suggestions. I have to admit that citizens are often smarter and smarter than we are, which is why we need to find time to answer their questions. They often put them on us when they don't know who else to put them on. Some basic impression that stems not from these conversations but from the observation of everyday life, some common denominator would read, "We are passing life in waiting, waiting for better days, waiting for a solution". We're really becoming a new species on this planet of earth, waiting, kind of waiting. Our old man didn't behave like that, they were worth it, they were hired, they were organized, they weren't waiting for dinner from the village, and exactly, they knew exactly what they were worth. In today's event is the beginning of Zagreb's renewal, so far it goes according to the principle "Trust in and in your beaks" or not modified "Trust in and in your own credit". Cap to the floor of the citizens who have already solved the construction half of the problem, but the financial ones are not yet and are not yet in sight. Children in homes wait for foster parents, foster parents wait for children. Why don't they wait more often, a practical question. We're here to help, we're here to engage. There's a press conference waiting every day, waiting for the end of the pandemic, waiting for the end of measures, waiting for the vaccine, waiting for a covid supplement, waiting for family pensions, waiting for just solutions. And so it turns out that exactly the system we're looking for a solution becomes, you know, a thief of time. Those who should help, who should speed up, get away. Let's move, let's be active, we're looking for what belongs to us, time is precious to young people, let alone old people. Please know the value of time because we can make up for everything, but time no, no and never. Dear pensioners and pensioners, waiting for rare resurrections or helping from counties, cities and municipalities of richer budgets shared by pensioners on someone and nobody. As your representative, I must say, I am bitter with the situation. A personal feeling of bitterness because of such a condition will not spoil the kindness I feel for you and therefore I want you to spend in peace and health and have a happy and blessed Easter, a holiday of hope. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u27797	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u40725	The annual report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency for 2019 is submitted by the Competition Protection Agency. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: The Annual Report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency for 2019 is hereby adopted. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 126 MPs and MPs, 80 for, 5 abstentions, 41 against and thus the conclusion was reached as proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. Dear colleagues and colleagues, please take your seats so we can approach the vote. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 11:59 A.M.]] I thank you all. I welcome you and we're going with the vote. First in line, Final proposal of the Law establishing the University of Defence and Security, second reading, P.Z. 24, the motion is Government, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Green-Left Block Representatives Club. I ask the motionary's representative to be shown about the amendment submitted, the Honorable Secretary of State at the Ministry of Defence, Branko Hrg, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u41044	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable MPs and MPs. The amendment is not accepted. Initial accreditation is carried out exclusively for new study programmes and since these military students programmes are already accredited in art. Article 28(4) of the final draft law provides for a re-accreditation procedure in accordance with Article 2 22. The law on quality assurance in science and higher education.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u41045	Here's a statement from my colleague Bakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u41046	Thank you, Mr. President. It is totally unacceptable for us to establish any institution by law that says in its first article that laws that prescribe the establishment of just such institutions will not be respected. In this case, it's nothing less than a university. In this case, a high school wants to be transformed into a university, and it is not adequately staffed in a way that adopts study programs that actually perform other universities. In this regard, therefore, we find this totally unacceptable, and we strongly argue that in this case, the applicable laws and all regulations governing and defining the procedure for the establishment of a university are also applicable. We therefore remain with our amendment and ask that it be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u41047	Then we will vote on the amendment of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives which the government does not accept, please let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I find that 120 MPs and MPs, 43 for, 2 abstentions and 75 against. We are now going to vote on the final proposal of the Law establishing the University of Defence and Security. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 127 MPs and MPs voted, 83 for, 3 abstentions and 41 against, and thus passed the Law establishing the University of Defence and Security. Final proposal for a law supplementing the Insurance Statutory Act with an increased duration, second reading, P.Z. No. 89. The promoter is a government. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law supplementing the Insurance Statutory Act with an increase in duration. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I find that 127 MPs and MPs voted, they were all in favour, and thus passed the Law on Supplements to the Insurance Statutory Act with an increased duration.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u41548	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, the Seed Act is the last nail in agriculture, in the cashier's coffin, in the village, in the peasants. Seeds and the importance of seeds are enormous. With this law, Art. 16th is predicted that domestic seed must go to the tillage, which means it will collect that seed, that 80% of the foreign seed market, who knows what quality it is, will take over 100% of the seeds. It would have been more correct of you if you had asked for a ban, if you had proposed a ban, this way it's more painful for a peasant, this way it's more morbid for a peasant, the village and the peasant are literally destroyed. We have a petition of 100,000 people, 30,000 OPGs, many scientists to protect Croatian indigenous seed, not to be banned from being on the market unless it's finished. This is exclusively the advantage of harmful lobbies within the Ministry of Agriculture and Government, the continuation of the continuity of the destruction of villages and peasants. This way we literally endanger this little farm that's left. I personally proposed a ban on GMO food in our area, a complete ban, and you're guessing, obviously, to your sponsors Monsanto or anyone else you already don't. I asked for a ban on glyphosate in favour of treating our agricultural land. And you didn't want to. We've got 700,000 acres of unprocessed surfaces and what now? What are we importing? What are we importing? What are we doing from the village and the peasants? The village and peasant is the only thing that can make progress in this country. It must be a measure and demographic to encourage the village and peasants to have products of indigenous domestic seed in tourist offers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u41549	Thanks, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u41550	I'm asking you to withdraw this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u41551	The apartment is approved. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Ivanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u41552	Thank you very much, Your Honor. He's been injured. In 238, Bulj presented a number of incorrect things and thus once again showed that he had not studied the Seed Act enough and thus wanted to confuse the entire public of the Republic of Croatia, especially agricultural producers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u41553	My colleague Ivanovic, this is a warning as big as a house because you absolutely did not specify anything that would be contrary to the Rules of Procedure, but that man had expressed his position, so it is a reminder. So please, colleague Bulj, then there's no need now, I've given a warning and that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u41554	I have needs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u41555	My colleagues, too, Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u41556	I have a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u41557	And you want an injury? Well, I've already given a warning, so there's been a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u41558	No, no, you'll give it to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u41559	You know I have to give you a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so here I am letting you speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u41560	Thank you very much. My colleague hurt everyone, the peasants, the village, mostly Slavonia until my Dalmatian burn because he's telling a lie. The article.../incomprehensible/... proposed by this law mentions the addition of domestic indigenous seed which collects people's production, our peasants and the village. So you're telling the truth, you're destroying the village and the peasants, and we see the state of the village and the peasants because of your policies.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u41561	Thank you, colleague Bulj, this is an even bigger reminder than fellow Ivanovic Thank you, too. [[Invasion: Thank you so much for your heart.]] Here's my colleague, Selak Rasdic. So, colleagues and colleagues, I have to give up when someone's looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u41562	Thank you for saving the most for me then. Therefore, Article 238, the fact is that the current proposal for a law in Article 16 provides for a revision, and paragraph 4 speaks of potential amendments to be made by the Minister under the Regulation. In that sense, the only untruth that was presented in this debate was during the debate by the State Secretary who said that the exceptions had already been prescribed. They're facts and that's what the public needs to be familiar with.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u41563	Thank you very much. You're also getting a warning. Now it's my colleague Zekanovic's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u41564	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, I request a break from the Club of Croatian Sovereigns for 10 minutes to consult further on this bill. Namely, in this bill, there is a famous Article 16, which even the Proposer has pointed out that it is an article that is not good and where he has already announced that some regulation will make an exception, you want to calm down a little bit of my colleagues so that I can, therefore, where even the promoter has stressed that an exemption from agricultural producers will be sought, or that this article will not apply. And now I don't understand why we're making a bill of law or why we're passing a law that's wrong, why in this law do we have an article of the law that we're going to seek immediate exemption from the rule? Why should we not in the second reading, or when we have a final draft of the law, have an article 16 that will look different? Therefore, this Article 16 really sends a strong blow to Croatian producers of agricultural products, Croatian OPGs and, above all, Croatian biodiversity, or Croatian seed, domestic seed. Unfortunately, such a bill with this Article 16 exclusively pleases foreign seed producers, while the Croatian seed will soon be gone. And most tragically, I must stress that even from the EU, even from Italy, from Hungary, farmers, farmers show us that we are passing a harmful law regardless of what they will place their seeds tomorrow. So Croatian sovereigns are to protect Croatian seed, to protect domestic seed and not pass such a bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u41565	The apartment is approved. Here you go, fellow Whitey. My colleague Zekanovic, please turn off. There you go, now turn yourself back on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u41566	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, on behalf of the MPs of the Assembly Club of HSS and HSU, are looking for a 10-minute break, but I suggest that a break in the course of a few days is no longer needed by those who wrote such a bill. To take a break to find William Engdahl's 2007 book in libraries, bookstores, or where on the Internet, which is called the Seeds of Destroy. It's such an interesting fiction that describes the agenda of world corporations, the agenda of world rulers, and I believe that it will be interesting for all those who want to read it, especially those who have written such a bill and will then be recognized in it. So, the global agenda of large seeds producers Monsanto etc., etc., is that through manipulation, through the adoption of laws in their colonies or neocolonies, which unfortunately Croatia also pretends to simply conquer not only seeds but also to conquer economies or control food and to rule over food in principle that state. I didn't read that book, and I read it 10 years ago, I didn't believe that Croatia would be part of this agenda as much as the larger EU countries are not, nor do they want to impose it on us. So we're pushing ourselves to turn into a colony. I repeat William Engdahl, 2007, Seeds of Extermination. I'm just asking them to read it so I can see if they'll then propose the same bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u41567	The apartment is approved. Comrade Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u41568	Good afternoon, Mr. President. I am looking for a break of 10 minutes and, on behalf of the Green-Left bloc Club, to warn again as we have spoken, first of all, why the haste in the adoption of this law when we know that only in April will the European Commission and the EU publish the results of research on the subject of seeds, especially biodiversity and seed conservation. We want to know who's doing a good job here? Is it more important here to process seeds that will cost those who produce seeds and increase the price of food on the market, we are looking for Croatia's independence regarding just healthy food. Why the rush?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u41569	And this break has been approved, however in accordance with Article 293b. We're not going to take a break, we're going to proceed with the vote right now, so I'm voting on the next conclusion. First, the proposal for a Seed Act, fruit material and the recognition of the variety of agricultural plants and other all objections and proposals will be submitted to the proposer to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 130 MPs and MPs voted, 76 for, 54 against, and thus concluded that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the List of Population, Households and Apartments in the Republic of Croatia 2021, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 126. The Proposer is the Government. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of that law. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 129 MPs and MPs voted, 121 for,1 abstention and 1 against, and thus passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the List of Populations, Households and Apartments in the Republic of Croatia 2021.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u42265	Thank you, well-respected President HS. I think it is important to request a break and warn the Croatian public before we vote on this interpretation that we have discussed a very important document this week, a document which thanks to the ruling debate in, I would say so in a Colloquial, porn term. And why colleagues and colleagues when the Prime Minister has always assured us that all of our steps towards the Slavonia Project and its shortcomings will be revealed on this very basis. The prime minister was gone, and he didn't convince us, and he may have been distracted by the fact that we caught him lying, that he deliberately deceived this troubled people, even if he lied about statistics and about the desert millions that are hiding, they're supposed to be pouring into this region. I will plastically describe the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem in just one project. We're rebuilding the train station building in Osijek, and at the same time we're removing the railway lines, building a station where there won't be any trains or passengers. There are serious indications that when money is allocated from the EU funds, it is becoming a conflict of interest, bargaining and abuse of the situation. Is it normal for former ministers and deputies, senior HDZ officials and their godmothers, property, friends, neighbors, relatives, passers-bys near their home to receive huge grants? Is that supposed to surprise us? After all, HDZ is a party that has a verdict on corruption. You stole the future from Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, you also stole the future from Croatia, you managed to wash everything out and distort, destroy and corrupt it, and I would never say that you would succeed in doing so to the EU funds. There is a joke that the EU will fall apart when Croatia enters it. Not colleagues and colleagues, the EU will fall apart once the HDZ takes over the main word.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u42266	Here you go, this break has been approved, so now it will also explain the request of counterpart Pavić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u42267	Thank you very much, dear President-in-Office, on behalf of the HDZ Club, for asking for a break to further explain what the government has done for Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. The project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem is 17,5 billion kuna, 21,000 projects, European funds change Croatia, change Slavonia for the better, ensure employment, ensure student homes, provide hospitals, roads, a better life for our citizens in Slavonia who have a development rate of only 30% to 40% of the development of the EU average. What the SDP has done here, it tries to extract 5-6 cases that it is precisely them that indicate that we've worked all corruptly, this is European money, it's controlled by European institutions. If there are any problems, please contact OLAF, it can absolutely work. I'm sorry that the colleagues of the SDP just spoke against the project "Wished" as if it wasn't necessary, that we removed it from the labour market and that we just took a job. 3,300 Slavonian women were given a job "Wish", and we gave them their dignity back. Women over 50 with lower levels of education from rural areas would remain unemployed for the rest of their careers. And finally, the notion that it was a fictitious project, that the project does not exist, the project started with a development agreement of five counties. Soon a development agreement will be signed for five northern counties on the same principle, if you don't believe it, if you think it's fictitious and tell Mr. Kolar not to sign, that his billions and strategic projects will not exist. Be consistent in both.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u42268	Thank you very much. Okay. We now have several injuries to the Rules of Procedure, the first one is a colleague of the coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u42269	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Pavić has demeaned the mind of all of us here in the assembly with low words that are the least funny, which has injured the art. 238. The Rules of Procedure of HS. Dear counterpart Pavic, the vice president of your party says the Slavonia project is nothing. And yes, it's no problem if the European funds finance everything you've said. The problem is when money from European.../Speakers speak at the same time. Speaker disabled./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u42270	My fellow coat of arms, thank you very much. You're getting a warning because you hurt the Rules of Procedure, this was no violation of the Rules of Procedure but a pure replica. Here you go, colleague Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u42271	Thank you very much, Mr. President. He's been injured. 238, so...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u42272	My colleagues and colleagues, I beg you don't do this now you'll do it later. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u42273	He is offended by common sense here, you say, so there are only a few cases of possible corruption. So what's that for HDZ just a few colleagues? Well, yeah, if there were at least 10 so we could talk, if there were at least 50 of them, then we'd talk. There's a couple of cases, a couple hundred million, so we're not gonna talk about it, I agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u42274	Your colleague Hajdukovic and you also receive a warning. Comrade Spajić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u42275	Thank you. A colleague of Pavić, Art. In 238, you forgot to say that the money that Slavonia gets from the EU when irregularities are determined, the money returns, but returns from the RS budget, you forgot to say that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u42276	A colleague's also a reminder, quite clear. Comrade Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u42277	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, he's hurt. 238, namely colleagues Hajdukovic and Grbin also deceive the Croatian public not to respect the facts they are, and our county cannot be challenged that four systems of irrigation are in operation, that 900 million kunas of agreed OPG programmes, that 780 are paid already through our farmers' programmes, are real figures. Restored castles made roads, agglomerations.../Speakers speak at the same time./... [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u42278	Dear Djakic, thank you very much, you also get a warning because this was not an injury to the Rules of Procedure. And colleague Pavić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u42279	Thank you very much. He's been injured. In 238, colleagues deceive Croatian public knowledge of European funds. There is an ARPA Control and Audit Agency there are European Commission auditors, there is a European Court of Auditors, if you think there are irregularities to report them, if you think this is a fictitious project that these billions are not developing some of your Mayor Kolar refuses to sign an agreement similar to that which will now be signed for the north soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u42280	Thank you very much. And this is also a warning. And now, a colleague, Hajdukovic, comes back again, this is how this is now going into the abuse of serious Rules of Procedure, so because it is turning into a debate and this is a replica of the replica, it has nothing to do with the violations of the Rules of Procedure and of any MPs who have come forward so far. So I invite you to stop it because we don't send a good message so knowingly and deliberately violate an act based on work in HS. How about colleague Hajdukovic or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u42281	You got it. I'll try to really tell you what my colleague Pavic hurt, so art. 238, you have again offended the common sense of your colleagues because of all these restored castles, because of these large vineyards built by, say, the superior minister of thousands of people remain in Slavonia, not only to stay but also to return. So I think a really healthy mind is offended, maybe a colleague should take a walk in that Slavonia, not just a car ride.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u42282	You also receive a second warning because you have injured the Rules of Procedure. Now my colleague Djakic is going to hurt the Rules of Procedure as well, I suppose.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u42283	He's been injured. 238. Because there's no such thing as common sense in you. You do not want to see that Hedel wrote support users from 2015 for your government and Minister Jakovina, look, Virovitica dam,... Virovitica is Hedl's writings all attributed to HDZ fund management as well as rural development. You're actually blind in healthy eyes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u42284	Okay, this is also a breach of the Rules of Procedure because it has nothing to do with the fact that the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Let's move on to another break or request for a break, dear colleague Mrak Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u42285	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS. I'd like a break for the Centre and GLAS club where we'd like to once again highlight a few things. The first thing is that there are EU projects that can absolutely be realised and used throughout the Republic of Croatia. The project called Slavonia is actually a marketing trick, it's about projects you've called the Slavonia project just so it can parade through Slavonia and show that it's doing something and it's investing. You don't have to explain to us in Parliament, we don't have to part ways here. Explain to Slavonia residents why the average salary in Slavonia is still 800 kuna less than the average salary in the Republic of Croatia. Explain, therefore, 38,000 people have not evicted 100, 1,000, 38,000 people since the project called Slavonia was launched according to the State Statistics Institute until early 2020, so not during the crown, it moved out of the area until the beginning of the crown. It is about the size of Vinkovci and several surrounding settlements. You don't have to explain to us the success of this project, you don't have to talk about it in a conference, explain it to people living in Slavonia. Why do they have an average salary lower than the entire territory of Croatia, and why do they move even when the project is so good when it even exists? So, it's about EU projects that you've only been doing to cloud your eyes and leave the impression that in Slavonia you've specifically called the Slavonia project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u42286	All right, now we've exhausted all requests for breaks and violations of the Rules of Procedure, and we'll go to the vote. I am voting the Interpelition on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on how to allocate and make available EU funds to funds under the "Project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem", which the government rejects. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I am in favour of 127 MPs and MPs, 46 were by, 5 abstentions, 76 against and thus the interpretation was rejected. This brings us to the end of the vote, and now in 5 minutes or 10 minutes there will be free speeches and after that we will conclude the session. We'll continue on 7 April. I wish everyone a happy Easter and you can spend this time with your loved ones and, of course, I wish you all good health and good health. It's 12.50 o'clock. The annual report on the implementation of the Strategy and the Law on the relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia for 2019 is submitted by the Central State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. Before the vote, there's a colleague named Pracchin, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u42595	On behalf of the Homeland Movement Club, a 10-minute break. This report is acceptable to us, and it's very important. Yesterday in the debate, we presented our views and very harsh criticism and remarks. However, these remarks and criticisms primarily relate to the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and State Policy which has not recognised what is happening in Montenegro. A Croatian vote decided that rather than democratic in Montenegro, we Croats of friendly and pro-European political options come to us with a large-scale chauvinist and expansionist. So, just because of one Croatian vote, it was the Serbian secret services that did it, and our legal institutions could do it and didn't do it. Furthermore, a debate on the destructive action of the Serbian Orthodox Church in both Montenegro and Croatia was opened in time because what happened in Montenegro, it is lipa, it is not a religious ritual, it is a political event. So, the Serbian Orthodox Church has led this war against the Montenegrin state and state policy all this time, we had 1001 reasons to open the debate on the Serbian Orthodox Church and its destructive action and thus put wind in the back of Montenegrin friends, so that in the government of Montenegro we have the most friendly government and country in the environment, instead we have got those who destroyed Dubrovnik, who shelled Konavle, committed crimes in eastern Herzegovina and with whom we will have major problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u42596	The apartment is approved, but we will apply the article. 293.b., and we'll proceed with the vote. I therefore conclude on the vote: The annual report on the implementation of the strategy and the Law on relations between the Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia for 2019 is accepted. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 127 MPs and MPs, 81 for, 39 abstentions and 7 against, have voted, and thus it was concluded that it was proposed by the home body. Final proposal of the Act on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements. 8. The Roman statue of the International Criminal Court, the weapon uses microbiological or other biological agents or toxins, changes and additions. 8. The Roman statue of the International Criminal Court, a weapon which is the main effect of wounding fragments that cannot be detected in the human body by regent rays, changes and additions. 8. The Roman statue of the International Criminal Court, a laser weapon which blinds and changes and complements art. 8. The Roman statue of the International Criminal Court, deliberately resorting to the hunger of civilians, second reading, P.Z. No. 124. The Proposer is the Government. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of that law. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? Here's the result, 129 voted, they were all in favour, so that's how the law was passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u42701	Your Honor, Mr. President. Honorable representatives and representatives of HS. It means an amendment to the article. 3. The final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sports Inspection, proposed to amend the Article. 3. Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sports Inspection in such a way as to be in accordance with Article 2(1)(b) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 16. The Law on Sports Inspection (St. 2) adds a new section 3 which reads: “If, during the course of the surveillance, there are cases of violence against children or child harassment, the inspector is obliged to draw up a special report and to submit it within three days to the Office of Advocates for Children.” The amendment shall be rejected with reasons, in accordance with the provisions of Article 3. The 17th century 3. The law on sports inspection if it assesses that there is a suspicion of committing a criminal offence, the inspector will report it to the competent authority of the persecution. Other than that, 12. Law on the Ombudsman for children, that article. The 12th regulation states that the authorities of the state administration of the units of local and regional (regional) self-government as well as legal and natural persons are required to cooperate with the Ombudsman for children and to submit reports at his request and to answer questions. A sports inspection shall be provided by the Advocate's Office for the Child Report on all cases in which an infringement of the provisions of the Law on Sports at the expense of children or suspected of committing a criminal offence committed at the expense of the child and the obligation to report to the Advocate's Office for the Child has no need to prescribe in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u42702	Hey, buddy Buck, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u42703	Thank you, Mr. President. So this amendment of ours actually applied to the addition of art. The 16th Fundamental Law, which means that Article. The 14th basic law states that the sports inspector is obliged to draw up a report on all the irregularities identified by the inspection and which were not necessarily the subject of the initial inspection. In this case, we believe that it is particularly important to install in this article a provision that deals with potentially established acts of violence against children and young people and also the harassment of children. We believe that this provision is extremely important, and otherwise, we think that the work of the sports inspectorate is necessary to connect more closely with the Office of the Ombudsman for Children and we think that this provision that we propose with our amendment in this respect would be very, very useful. So we're staying with the amendment and we're asking for a vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u42704	Now we will vote on this amendment, the government does not accept it. Who's up for the amendment? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes, so we move on to Amendment No. Two of the same club representatives. Please, Secretary of State, you don't have to read the text of the amendment, but just an explanation, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u42705	Thank you, Mr. President. Therefore, this amendment is also rejected with reasons, but it is not clear to whom such an obligation is imposed, or who needs to be made aware of the suspension. Also, it is not clearly defined what the suspension means, does this mean a suspension of the rights and obligations of the working relationship in which the employer pronounced it? Does this mean a temporary ban on carrying out an activity in which the case is pronounced by an alliance, a club or someone else, or is there a solution to the ban on carrying out an activity expressed by a sports inspector by a solution? It is also not indicated how human rights violations and the health of athletes and athletes are determined by means of a powerful judicial decision by launching criminal proceedings or otherwise. The health care of athletes is regulated by the provisions of Art. 71. The sport law is based on which a person who is 6 months old can participate in a sport competition. prior to the sport competition, a general health capacity or special health care capacity has been established when prescribed by the regulation adopted by the Minister responsible for Health or the regulations of the National Sports Federation. Since it is in accordance with the provisions of Art. 24. The law on sports inspection shall be approved by the inspector to take an emergency measure in the event that he finds that a person who does not have the appropriate medical competence set out in the Law on Sports has participated in the sport competition, the addition of the article proposed. The fourth final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sports Inspection is too high.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u42706	There you go, the obvious. You're free, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u42707	Thank you very much. So this is about, in our amendment, intervention in art. 18, which defines the deadlines in which the sports inspector is obliged to submit his report. The point of our amendment was that these deadlines were maximumly shortened, in particular in cases of violations of fundamental human rights, especially in cases where behaviours that are harmful to the health of athletes, especially children and young people. In this regard, we believe that such a provision is not only appropriate but also necessary, so we remain with our amendment and we pray that it be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u42708	Here we go. We'll do it right now. So we are voting on the amendment of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives which the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I also find that this amendment has not received the required number of votes. I am now voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sports Inspection. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 130 MPs and MPs voted, 126 for and 4 abstentions, and thus passed the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Sport Inspection.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u42709	Good morning, everyone who's here. Today we have: - The final proposal of the Law implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/1148 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 on the placing on the market and use of explosives precursors and amending Regulation (EC) No This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 98/2013, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 63. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia in relation to Art. 172. 190. The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. Excuse me. The amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Mr. Zarko Katić is from the MUP is here with us and will introduce us to this final bill, that's no. 63. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u42710	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honors, ma'am. The final proposal for a Law implementing the regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation. Subject law is harmonised as the name says, therefore, with the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the placing on the market and use of explosives precursors. The regulation and law deal with explosives precursors or substances which are otherwise available for free sale and which are used for different everyday purposes. Most of us also use them in our lives and work, but these means in certain quantities or concentrations can be used to make explosives. Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 December 2003 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 (OJ L 298, 30.12.2009, p. 1). It was adopted in view of the identified shortcomings in the old Regulation of 2013. which has not clearly prescribed the responsibility of economic operators involved in importing, selling, transporting, storage, exporting or production of explosives precursors and Internet markets. Also, this 2013 Regulation has shown that EU inspections are not effective enough and that the new regulation strengthens the role of inspection services. So I repeat, in the Republic of Croatia, the Law on the Implementation of Regulation No. of 15 January 2013 concerning the placing on the market and use of explosives precursors. This law, which is before you, so the final bill, provides for the following obligations. These are the obligations of economic operators concerning written reporting of other economic operators on the reporting obligations, hence these assets, as well as employees participating in the sales chain immediately after their employment and later once a year, and informing them of the content of regulated explosives surpluses in products that they place on the market and the obligations that these employees have under the regulation. It then prescribes the internet market's obligations to take action and use tools to ensure that users who make the regulated explosives surplus available through their services of intermediating these Internet markets so that all customers are informed of their obligations to have the option of reporting suspicious transactions. Finally, the law lays down, or lays down, the competent authorities for the implementation of the Regulation, as well as the obligations of those bodies. These are primarily the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Agriculture, Home Affairs, as well as the State Inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia. As far as the MUP is concerned, its obligations in law enforcement are the following. The MAP is a contact point, a national contact point for reporting suspected transactions or significant disappearances or theft of substances and mixtures containing therefore explosive precursors. Then to collect data and report to the European Commission on reported suspected transactions or significant disappearances or thefts. Then on the inspection and awareness-raising activities carried out on explosives precursors. Finally, as the MUP is normally responsible for carrying out criminal research in cases where suspicious transactions are reported in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Act and the Law on Police Affairs and Powers. There are, of course, criminal sanctions against the provisions of the regulation and of this law. As regards the difference between the first and second readings, the final draft of the law introduced objections to the new technical nature of the Committee on Lawmaking of the Croatian Parliament, other remarks which were not accepted. To implement this law, there is no need to provide additional resources in the Republic of Croatia's budget, so those resources that have been so far will be sufficient. Next, here's what's been said, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I propose the adoption of this final bill of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u42711	Thank you, too. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? ... First replicas, first Mr. Dretar. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u42712	Thank you very much. The Honorable Chairman, thank you. Dear Mr Katic, allow me, you know, we have already communicated several times that once again it is purely for the Croatian public and the interested public. I quote one question on behalf of the Croatian Automodel Union, the law, i.e. I am speaking, or quoting their sentences, is highly restrictive, at a meeting of the European Federation of Modelers, it is found that the use of fuel with a amount of nitromethane greater than the concentration for free retailing is possible in some Member States in the system of registers and permits. These permits are either individual or time-limited, so please, here are the people following this debate, very interested, it is about preserving a very respectable and recognised sport or activity in Croatia, how will this law directly affect them? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u42713	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u42714	Dear Mr Dretar, after the adoption of this final bill and its entry into force, the Republic of Croatia will address the European Commission and will receive some guidance for its application. I have arranged a meeting with the Croatian Modeling Union, we will meet next week, on Tuesday, and we will explain to them how they can continue their activities or until the adoption of this regulation and the law does not affect their daily exercise, competition, etc. I am informed that next year in the Republic of Croatia, such a championship of automodels is organised and European, and we will do everything in these talks to ensure that this championship and its preparations are not compromised.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u42715	Thank you very much. Mr. Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u42716	Dear Vice President, Your Honor. Which is a precursor, it's a clear chemical compound that participates in a chemical reaction that produces a second compound. The messages of the regulation make it clear, it establishes rules at EU level for making available, introducing possession and use of substances and mixtures that could be misused in domestic production of explosives, in particular, which may reflect public security at the time of the occurrence of terrorism from the most diverse initiatives. Will the regulation be enforceable to that extent that individual users start using the same chemical activity to replace the precursor or sanctions if they do not use safer chemicals that do not exist on the market? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u42717	Thank you very much. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u42718	It will be here following the entry into force of the regulation, there will be a need to carry out certain public reporting, in particular economic operators and citizens. These items or chemical substances, therefore, which have been used and used so far, will remain until they are found for certain compounds and something better and safer, but the point is that suspicious large transactions of these substances or, in general, one substance is not enough to make up, so it is not enough to make up explosives, it takes several substances, it can also be really those substances that are used daily in agriculture and even in a hairdressing salon for such a hairdresser and hairdresser, but if someone who does not deal with this job orders a larger amount it must be reported. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u42719	Thank you very much. Mr. Ante Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u42720	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Surely this is, surely by this law and in this second reading and all together, this implementation, it is shown to be better, quality, most importantly, safer. ... security in the whole of this mixture... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] that in the past, we get one security that shows that something needs to be controlled, which is the most important thing that the system controls and that not everyone can use it on one of their own... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No matter how much life-form it came about. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u42721	Thank you very much, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u42722	That's right, Your Honor. The main purpose, the intention of this Regulation and the law to be adopted in Croatian national legislation is to increase the security of the economy and citizens. I say, this regulation gives certain powers and obligations to economic operators, especially as I have told inspection services, so the inspectorate will need to add and train them, and that they know how to identify such dangers on the Internet market but also the general public, because they can generally come to these products, buy them online, and we need to make them aware that they can be extremely dangerous at a higher level and at a certain concentration.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u42723	Thank you very much. No more replicas. Do the representatives want to take a word for it? Yeah. Mr. Vukas, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u42724	Dear Mr Vice President colleagues and colleagues, secretary of state. [[/Intruder Radin: The Committee on Internal Policy, right?]] The Internal Policy and National Security Committee as a home working body at its 16th session held on 24 March 2021 considered and supported the Final Proposal for a Law implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/1148 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 concerning the placing on the market and use of explosives precursors and amending Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 and repealing EU Regulation No. 98/2013, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 63. The adoption of the Regulation in question has been approached by the lack of regulation of certain segments in the pre-existing Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 January 2013 concerning the placing on the market and use of explosives precursors, i.e. due to insufficiently established obligations to economic operators and the Internet market in the sale of substances which can be used above a concentration for the manufacture of explosive devices of home production, as well as for the strengthening of inspection controls in order to ensure that the overall surveillance procedure is effective and that the equipment unanimously supported this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u42725	Thank you, too. I am opening the debate and it is the first order of Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic to represent the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns. He's gone. He's losing his right. The second is Mr. Davor Dretar, who, as we know, is here and who will represent the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u42726	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. So when we talk about this proposal for a law implementing the European Parliament's regulation on the placing on the market and the use of explosives precursors, we will explain in another simple public language what explosives are. We did it again during the first reading, but we can do it one more time. So these are substances that can make an explosive device. We are at a time when terrorist threats are extremely major security threats. Fortunately, Croatia is currently at a big start and we do not have, thank God, that we do not have major terrorist actions or security threats. As a result of good policy as a result of the good work of our security services or simply the fact that we are not interesting to terrorists, we will leave it for another debate. Here today we are talking about the security law or the way we try to regulate the market for potentially dangerous substances. Unfortunately, as we ourselves know other than this, other than the bill and the legislation, terrorists around the world are using, which is understandable, the black market whether it's about direct illegal trade between stakeholders or that it's about so-called. Dark Internet. We here, i.e. this proposal for a law and regulation of the European Parliament, are talking about the regulation of the Internet market for such substances. We're all aware there's a parallel so-called. A black market or a dark Internet on which other than the supply of such substances can be obtained from weapons, narcotics, and even human trafficking. That part of the market, of course, we can't regulate it, we don't have any influence on it, but as far as the basic and completely legal Internet market is concerned, it's clear that things should be put in order and through the register, or the exceptional control of all those who have the ability to get, store, and then later on, using explosives precursors, it's clear to everyone that that's how it has to be. The same thing must be arranged on the internal market through companies that can carry out such an activity or obtain it. In a conversation with Mr. from the Croatian Automodel Union, I came across great understanding and he and I thank him and thank him here once again and again, Mr. Katic for extremely correct communication, and I am glad that you have come to understand this meeting, people were scared for a moment, I am talking about the first reading of this proposal, when they were afraid that because of the ban on certain concentrations of their activity or automodel work in Croatia would practically be, I will not say forbidden, but that his work would be disabled. Just to explain to you, and to the Croatian public, it's not about those little cars that we buy to our children in large commercial chains, we put in two batteries, and then the kids are having fun, it's about serious car models and in Croatia not so much, but in Europe it's about extremely appreciated sport, it's about the sport in which the serious funds are invested, here, unfortunately, it's a little bit of a helmet, but there are automodel alliances both in Zagreb, so in Osijek, in Koprivnica, and we'll say almost all over Croatia. They use methyl alcohol to drive their vehicles or these automodels in principle, but since it does not have, I mean methyl alcohol, enough value for these models to produce the speed needed for the races they must interfere, so at that point these so-called. Nitromethanes because they are added to methyl alcohol and thus obtain one mixed fuel by which or by means of which octane number these models can achieve speeds sufficiently high for races. I must also mention an extremely likable fact that Croatian automodelists have also joined the Homeland War. Namely, as the predecessor of today's remote control explosive devices, they were ready and they put themselves in the service of the HV and they said if necessary we would give our models and we would remotely quote them and we would put explosives on them and try to do damage to the aggressor, which is for every praise. And thank them for their unthinking involvement in the defence of Croatia. What Mr. Secretary of State is in, and we here, I am sure we are completely complex, the Croatian Automodel Alliance in some way, whether it will be a sublegal act or these additional guidelines of the European Commission include in the register or register of users and thus allow them further and smooth work. Next year they are expected by the European Championship here in Zagreb, a large runway for automodels is being built in Zagreb on Lake Bundek, as will our future Mayor Miroslav Škoro. There will be hundreds of teams coming to Zagreb from all over Europe, we will again have a nice promotion of our city, our country, and of course let us not forget the certain financial effects they will have here. So, in any case, in a pure desire to be productive, I'm going to say so, to be more cooperative and the House of Commons Club will support this bill and, of course, we will continue to thank our automodels for their existence and, of course, to all those who use explosives, ask them to do so responsibly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u42727	Now it's Mr. Niksha Vukas, who will speak in front of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u42728	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. As I said on the Committee, in essence, this bill can only show that the regulation is being implemented, in fact that one regulation is being put into the legislative framework of the Republic of Croatia with the aim of monitoring trade, application, in a way that puts into the legislative framework who are the competent authorities who will in some way control all of this together. We know basically that these supercharged explosives that can somehow be part of some terrorist attack tomorrow that must certainly be under control. There it was seen that jurisdiction had the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Agriculture and the State Inspectorate. As it is, the law will determine that the State Inspectorate will carry out the supervision itself. From everything else, the SDP Club will, from all backgrounds, support this bill proposal because everything I previously communicated, which goes in the interest of preventing any form of terrorism, will always be found in us by an adequate partner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u42729	Thank you, too. Mr. Ante Deur will speak in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u42730	Honorable Vice President, Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, that's a nice greeting to all of us. Here is certain that in this final proposal for a regulation on precursors, first of all we get the competent authorities dealing with, who can control these serious chemical things. Surely we can't see that it's something that's restrictive, which threatens, would be a threat if this quality regulation wasn't made by law. Everything that protects people's lives, health, we need to see that it has to be done within the legal frameworks, and therefore this regulation is certainly giving that one complete security for all of our society because these are clear rules and rules in society, law, we must all stick together and respect and respect because they are serious things. ... is that those who are engaged in both explosive or non-explosive substances are available for free sale. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Whatever's in free sale, it has to be within the legal framework, we need to know exactly who's doing what. It's something we have to do every day, and the mixture and in certain quantities, the concentration can be used to make explosives. This Regulation of 2019 was adopted in view of the established shortcomings in the old regulation on which we had the opportunity to listen and see, so that it clearly laid down the responsibility of economic operators involved in importing, selling, transporting Internet markets, storage, exports, and also showed that inspection supervision within the EU is not effective and the new regulation strengthens the role of inspection services, which is very important. This is very important that we are aware of what it means to be strengthened and that it is much, much more quality. In the Republic of Croatia, the law of the implementation of the Regulation of 2013 is currently in force. The European Parliament and the Council of 15 January 2013 on the placing on the market and use of explosives precursors. This final proposal prescribes normal obligations and these are economic operators, which is important because, in fact, it is related to the written notification of the second economic operator of the application obligation as well as the employees, which are employees, the sales chain, which touches that work, which is in the vicinity, means later, once a year, with the content of regular explosives precursors in products that are placed on the market, the obligations are in accordance with the Regulation. So we have online markets that can be very dangerous, but also take measures to help... In order to ensure that users who make available and regulate explosives precursors through their roles, interventions are notified of their obligations and that they must have the option of reporting suspicious transactions, which is a very important sentence and can be very dangerous. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, all competent authorities on the implementation of the Regulation as well as their obligations have been established. And these are the two ministries, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Agriculture and Home Affairs and Normal, the State Inspectorate, who, with their people being educated, will fully recognise this entire regulation legally. So national... is that in the implementation of the law, a national contact point for the reporting of suspected transactions or significant deficiencies or the theft of substances, mixtures or substances containing them, as well as for the collection of data and reporting by the European Commission on notified and suspected transactions and significant deficiencies or thefts in the implementing inspection and awareness-raising activities of explosives precursors. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What it means is that this consciousness is really being raised not only by people who control it but by the consciousness being all of us together and it's one serious social one, it can be a very serious social hoax. In order to carry out criminal research in cases where suspicious transactions are reported in accordance with the Law on Criminal Procedure and the Law on Police Affairs and Powers, criminal sanctions shall also be prescribed to comply with the provisions of the Regulation. It is important to stress that the law does not provide for the possibility of making certain and limited explosives available to individual users, nor can they enter, possess or use them, which is very important. In addition, the law does not provide for the possibility of issuing permits for individual, individual users to place and make certain limited precursors of explosives available, nor is such permits granted to individual users by the competent authorities and circles of EU member states. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional resources in the state budget. Following the above, here is the above and all that we have heard we propose to adopt him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u42731	Thank you very much. There are no other speakers, so I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. As for the agenda we are done today, today is a special day, we have spoken for half an hour, there have been no injuries to the Rules of Procedure, but I will see you at 12 when the vote will be, and according to the Rules of Procedure after the vote will be held. Thank you very much until 12. THE MEETING IN 10.02 HOURS
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-26-0.u42732	The final proposal for a Law implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/1148 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 concerning the placing on the market and use of explosives precursors and amending Regulation (EC) No This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 98/2013, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 63. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of that law. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I find that 130 MPs and MPs voted, 129 for, 1 abstentions, and thus passed the law.
