ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u42789	The next Club of Representatives will be the Homeland Movement on behalf of which the respected representative Davor Dretar will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u42790	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary, dear colleagues, respected colleagues, Croatian public, I am taking you to the field in a beautiful region in Croatia. In it you can see beautiful and piety hills, green rivers and harmonized ornaments on which hardworking people work. We have a rich and important history from our Krapina great-man through the great battle of Matija Gupca to the Zagorje defenders who have been actively involved in the defense and creation of the homeland as we do today. We also have monuments the largest one in Upper Stubica, the work of Antun Augustinčić, our Zagorec, born in Klanjec in 1900. But is it true that we may have an even greater and even more attractive monument to the grand artistic composition that surpasses everyone else? We do. A magnificent monument in Stubici Toplice, the work of an artist who is interesting whether data was also born in Klanjc, a monument of incompetence. Although the works on that monument are not finished, neither is it known when or how they could end at all but it does not diminish its beauty and does not hide its true message, which is a deep worship to the sacred cow of corruption. Let's look at the chronology of raising a magnificent temple in the Stubic Spas. The largest health resort in the region to employ 500 people. So 12 years ago, they assured all of us in Krapina-Zagorje County, and we naively believed in the vindication of partnership with a great concert of the famous owner. The spear was broken if it should leave 74,000 square meters of land plus Stubici Toplice Special Hospital, a rich and huge concert for the Stubaki project. The hospital isn't left, but the land is. We were told an investment of EUR 109 million should not be blocked by this project with a worthy admiration. It lets me repeat 74,000 acres of pardon square meters of our country, or 7 and a half acres. It has been said that this money represents only a front for raising the value of the company and that the company will soon sell. The truth was even more terrible. A well-known entrepreneur charged the property with a mortgage of almost EUR 2 million and used that money to save one of the companies in his concert, and he had the right to use that money only to realise the project. And mic by mic 8 years nothing's going on. Last year, it was still uncertain whether the Stubaki project would be realised. After the mayor who participated in the launch of the project in the chair, he sat down with a new one who is there today in his second term and hopes for the third. He was asked whether he was personally responsible, he said "as long as there is even the slightest chance that the project will be implemented on it will work if I fail to take personal responsibility". In April 2021, therefore now, of the project absolutely nothing, 74,000 square squares of the county country serves to grow moles and butters, and a large concert sold its hotel business. So, the fate of Stubički Toplice, the hotel, health tourism, the improvement of the inhabitants of the region and the entire county obviously doesn't interest anyone. 74,000 m2 of the county country remained unused, 5 hundred Zagorki and Zagorac never received the promised job, but a very likely small group was richly rewarded for such a shameful management of the county and rude lying voters. The epic battle for the improvement of the Zagorje man known as the Battle of Stubički Toplice began in 2009 and ended in 2021 with the absolute defeat of both mayors on all fronts. I ask you Zagorka and Zagorci will we give them a new mandate to sell us the same trick for the fourth time or will you realize that the time has come for you to thank them for your cooperation in this election? If the current mayor is considered a moral and honest man from this place, I call on him to keep his promise of taking personal responsibility for the Stubička Toplice project, or for the project to fail and to withdraw his candidacy for the Mayor of Krapina-Zagorje County at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u42791	Thank you. Now we're going to stop at this point a little bit because it's one hour and we're going to be taking a stand on behalf of representatives clubs and independent representatives, and the first one on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSS and HSU is going to be spoken by the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u42886	Your Honor. Today is a special day, HSU celebrates its 25th birthday. Yes, yes, a quarter of a century of the life of a party that no one has ever given a great chance. HSU was founded on 29 April 1996. of members of the Croatian Retired Mother, the Croatian Retired Union and free-thinking individuals on the trauma of illegally reduced pensions by as much as 40%. It was founded with the aim of correcting the wrongs suffered by pensioners, not by hanging a bare struggle for power. After two failed attempts at the 1996 and 2000 parliamentary elections, The party became parliamentary in 2003, third happiness, an independent vote. With happy circumstances in common with the leaders of the pension societies, we began to resolve the compensation or repayment of debt to pensioners, which lasted until 2013. In that first term, we resolved the supplement for the new pensioners from 4% to 27% and surrounded by the results came out on our own in the 2007 elections. and realized that election engineering could turn more votes and a good rating into a smaller mandate. It was the first strong frustration and a sign of danger to the survival of HSU. Since I joined HSU, I have been working for the benefit of the pensioners as much as the circumstances allow, and in that first term I was delighted with the joint activities with pensioners' associations. 2008 I've been elected president, more chromed, and more than half a century of the party for 12.5 years, keeping that ship on the surface, keeping the parliamentary status of HSU, that's what I still have. Behind me are hundreds of thousands of encounters with pensioners, hundreds of tribunes, I've done ten cycles of elections, expecting a repeated explosion of community, solidarity and the wisdom of pensioners. HSU's unquestionable benefit for pensioners, but all the time, it's all about breaking up HSU. Political rivals, at that time, worked hard to establish a lot of retirement parties and, in cooperation with associations at local and national level, to dull the political edge of HSU, sharing the pensioners' crumbs instead of each month's law-based rights. In each term, we have solved a problem with blues and reds that has always been measured in hundreds of millions of kunas. Requirements and expectations have multiplied, voter support has been increasingly shared because behind each result you have a rise in critics. At the end of last year, I decided that steering is enough and has left the party to new leadership, focusing on work in HS where I would like to dedicate this mandate by offering solutions to problems through amendments to the laws for pensioners, as well as for all other citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I do this with a lot of passion and passion because I care about the better life of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, current and future workers and pensioners. It's an hour of burden and a pleasure to do it. Thank you to those who have supported me unreservedly all these years, the voters of the 8th constituency. What happens in the future with HSU? Responsibility is a new leadership, but on my side HSU will always have good wishes. Whether I'm in the future or not, I'll be in HSU. HSU will remain in me forever, in my head, in my heart, in my success and failure, my pride and my pain, my hope and my disappointment, just as it should be in my life. Members and members, voters and pensioners, happy 25th birthday of the Croatian Party of Retirement and let our dove fly happily. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u42911	The next club of MPs will be the green-left block, and Rada Boric will speak to a respected representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u42912	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. In countries and with smaller problems and smaller affairs in managing the Covid crisis and the health system, the ministers are leaving. But what about the Ministry of Health, what about the government? The health ministry has always been left to itself, and ministers have had complete autonomy. Minister Willi Beros is the first health minister in history to whom the government took away autonomy by assigning it in April 2020. The crisis headquarters of the same authority as the Minister of Health has under the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases. On constitutional problems with crisis headquarters status, the profession has already said its own. He wrote especially Professor Gjorge Gardasevic. The fact is that the epidemic is managed by a special government body where the health minister is just a wheel. He who politely says “Thank you for asking.” Because the fact is that on 23 December last year, the government delegated the plan and the vaccination programme against Covida-19 to the Ministry of the Interior, and then to the Ministry of Health, HZZ and HZZ, so that the collapse of the Plan and the vaccination programmes is responsible for the government, the MUP, HZZO, HZZZ. Furthermore, last year, the minister signed a public procurement contract with Cuspis for the Vapi se.hr platform, which we witnessed a total failure. The minister, however, was not called by command responsibility but as a person who had private motives to sign a contract with the owner of Vinko Kojundzic. Due to Vinko Kojundzic and former HDZ director Veseslav Bergman, UskoK entered the HZZO in 2009, searched all contracts signed with IT companies related to Kojundzic. This happened after a series of texts written for years by Natasa Škaričić, and they were the key ones that accompanied the documentation from which Vinko Kojundzic was officially represented as HZZO's information adviser, although he was not. He communicated both to the London branch and to the New York headquarters of the company Prolifics, which provided HZZO with software and offered her a meeting with the HZZO direct where he would be conveyed to them under quotes. Clearly, Kojundzic was then only the owner of the IT company. In any other country, publication of such documentation would mean the end for a political official. Bergman was eventually replaced by Milinovic, a more serious USKOK investigation and the end of such a company's co-operation with the public sector. In Croatia, however, things are quickly forgotten about the HDZ account, and then they spread over the HDZ to BiH. So, where the Institute of Health Insurance was entrusted the work of informing the health system in 2012 entrusted to Kojundzic's company, Cuspis Zagreb. Since 2012, this company has the exclusive right to maintain and upgrade an existing IT system. Finally, in 2019, Minister of Health Milan Kujundzic signed a contract with Cuspis IN2 and INCON worth more than 6 million kunas for the production of platforms.../incomprehensible/... and e-vaccination. We should warn the e-vaccination program with a register of vaccinated persons and it was mentioned on 14 January 2012 in a memo signed by Minister Beros and sent to all the county public health institutions in point 7. as a programme enrolling vaccines against Covida-19 disease. And in many other memos, despite the fact that Cuspis signed a contract in the '20s for the construction of the vaccination platform. In a year, why did Cuspis receive as much as 2 information systems for the registration of vaccinated persons? Why were both used in this situation? We don't know, but I suggest you do it for the jump. Beroš is certainly the last HDZ to come to the stalking relationship of the HDZ administration with Vinko Kojondzic. The rest of Minister Beros or left, if anyone will investigate whether a handover of software was made, if it is who did it and signed it. that there are no objections to work and has the warranty expired? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u42913	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives will be that of the Centre and GLAS, and the Honorable representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u42986	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, colleagues and colleagues. One of the reasons why we have a state, and also county and cities and municipalities is that we can plan some things on deadlines that are a little longer than today until tomorrow. That's why there are 4 mandates and sometimes 5. so that some serious projects and plans can be completed, and they are the largest and most complex at least start and direct. Look how few of us, even now we've had enough, but in discussions on some other topics that are interesting, we're very few. Why? Well, it's a local election. It's overrun, and the campaign's about to start. In Zagreb, too, there is a lot of talk about the need to change the way in which the city is managed, although it is still not quite clear what can be said. Of course, it certainly includes fighting corruption and criminal affairs as a step without which we will certainly not emerge from the problem. Debts in Zagreb came to an end, and the pooling of money in private pockets is one of the main causes of this. But there is one more thing about managing Zagreb which is a big problem and makes life in our capital worse than it could be. There was nothing in Zagreb, not even in the medium term, let alone long-term visions, nor the idea of how the city should look, how it should be developed, what new spaces can conquer, which the existing skipped and neglected must bring back to life. I'm primarily an architect and urbanist. One way or another, I've been dealing with these topics my whole life, and that's something that's particularly in my heart. Otherwise we all use this 5-minute speech and somehow we're trying big words that, of course, it's of interest to all of you to come to the media and everything else, what I'm going to talk about is certainly not something that's going to be on the cover of any portal, but something that's important for the development of a city. So we had the mayor, the late mayor who was headed the city one way or another for 20 years. And it's an indicator of how 20 years old. It can pass quickly, and in terms of vision and the idea that the City of Zagreb should develop does not do anything at all. He based his way of managing the city on the fact not what the City of Zagreb wants to see in 2030 or 2050, not what is the benefit of the citizens of the City of Zagreb, but, of course, the developing character and work of his personal and here he finally left this world. And what you needed to do, not only do you see what kind of city you want, this earthquake has exposed all the horror of years of inaction because you can very simply skip the underdeveloped parts of the city and build on the meadow, but what is difficult and complicated to return to the tissues of the city and that those all the consequences of that dotted urbanism that will be recorded in anals as something not to do, try to recover. No new building should appear in any semi-final or completed parts of the city until an analysis is made, until traffic is resolved primarily, traffic is resolved in a calming manner and greenery is seen as necessary. Public spaces are not every time children's playgrounds, public spaces are not every time arranged parks, public green spaces are some way meadows that can be reached and can be played, meadows where a child can walk barefoot, and the City of Zagreb has some sort of city silver and when you do an analysis, it might be good that he didn't deal with it because the question is what would happen. But at one point these urban silver became a mockery of the city, so I will only use and list the "Block Badel" on Kvatrić, "Zagrebcanka" next to Radnička, "Paromlin and Gredelj" in the center itself. These are good examples when you had no idea and you didn't have maybe an investor, so you didn't even do anything and that's something for the future. One who will have the opportunity to be the first face of the City of Zagreb must take care and have an idea of what kind of city we want, not tomorrow, but in 10 and 20 years. and the example of the city of Zagreb is an example of how 20 years can pass very quickly, can go into the wind and then it is difficult to make up for missed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u43146	The next club of MPs will be the SDP on behalf of which a respected representative of Domagoj Price will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u43147	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. One of the most suffering parts of our country has been the Bjelovar-Bilogor County. The heart of the continental part of Croatia. The County is the old and proud towns and places, Bjelovar, Chazema, Gareshnica, Grubišni Polje and the most beautiful small town in the world, Daruvar and many places and municipalities. Unfortunately, apart from the privatisation of the 1990s, this area and its people were also affected by the poor conditions in agriculture, the devastation of the village and the emigration of a large number of inhabitants. Each new political government had new measures for agriculture, but did not produce fruit. How do our fellow citizens in this area, with regard to agriculture, tell me, who would want to live like that? You work from morning to night, you're exposed to the whims of nature, the government changes your rules every year, a little bit like this, a little bit like that, and you're doing credits, you're following trends, you're chasing incentives, you're investing in crops, and you're hoping for the best, and you're getting cold, so it's dry, so it's too rainy, so winter, it's gone, and people are getting harder and slowly losing hope. People are leaving. That is why it is important to have the will and plan, as my friend from Grubish Polje, Sebastian Swat, how to raise agriculture from the crisis and make a good life for our fellow citizens. What people tell me and feel is the marginalisation of Daruvar and Western Slavonia, the lack of satisfactory infrastructure in terms of rail transport and fast roads that are extremely important for the smooth development of Croatia. How do these landscapes develop, how to develop an economy and thus increase the standard of people if they are not sufficiently traffic-related? That should be the priority of every government. But regardless of all the problems, there are young people, idealists who have remained like young Slaven Djurdjevic from Gareshnica, Igor Jaresh from Daruvar, who have stayed in their places and are fighting for the better tomorrow. They try to change something, understand the problems and needs of the places they live and care about their community. They know what's wrong, but they know how to make things better. Sadly, many of their acquaintances and friends left their municipalities and cities for existential reasons. The economy doesn't work for the benefit of people. Jobs exist in state-owned companies or local authorities, the private sector is weakened by tax press, various parafiscal duties and regulations. But we see, there are people fighting. There are also stories of success, but they are the result of the individual's will and ability, not thanks to the system, but despite the system. But persistent people like Sandra Frco, Antoneta Djokić from Bjelovar, Emil Kuštrić from Location, Marija Maja Ulovec from Končanica, Ivana Sablek Murnic from Chaza and Damir Djurdjevic from Velika Pisanica. They will continue to work and fight for their cities and municipalities. It's because of them that I'm optimistic that things can change, that our country can be a better place to live. This must be our goal if we want a better standard if we want the number of inhabitants of Croatia and Bjelovar-Bilogor County to grow. It is important to ensure the sewerage of suburban settlements where there is no, transportably connect our cities and cities, to allow the development of all regions and to see how to tax-deliver citizens, farmers, entrepreneurs and craftsmen. Their efforts are an honor to all of us, and their success elevates our entire country. So let us not forget that Croatia is strong if all parts of our country develop equally. As a society, it's the only way we can progress and grow.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u43239	The next Club of Representatives will be the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Danica Baricevic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u43240	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here is a parliamentary representative from Split-Dalmatia County, today I would like to highlight several facts relating to its functioning and also, during this pandemic and the course of the implementation of planned development programmes. During the COVID crisis, our government has secured a billion and 112 million kn to preserve jobs in Split-Dalmatia County. It is a fee of over 72,000 workers and with these already paid billions and 112 million kn, this fee is extended for May and will continue to be received by all workers who are engaged in the activities, who are limited precisely by the pandemic. Split-Dalmatia County has the highest units of local self-government. It's 55. And after amending the Law on the financing of local and regional self-government and a significant increase in income, many projects have been implemented that have been promised to citizens. The county is approaching 900m euros in total contracted projects financed by European funds, which speaks enough about the engagement of all involved. During the stay of Prime Minister Plenkovic in Split a few days ago, new contracts worth 500 million kuna have been signed that will greatly contribute to the development of Split and Split-Dalmatia County. 3 transport contracts will greatly change the functioning of the county in a transport sense. I would also point out here the development of island areas for which the Government of the Republic of Croatia is increasing investment each year by showing that life on the islands recognises as an area of special state interest and denomination, as an area of great natural, economic and tourist potential. Investment in Croatian islands over the past few years has been related to many capital projects of construction, construction, reconstruction, development of municipal and transport infrastructure, water supply, draining and energy recovery, spatial planning and protection of nature and the environment, and nearly 3 billion kuna was invested in the area of the island alone in 2019 alone. A significant part of these funds was also invested for projects on islands in Split-Dalmatia County and 2 days ago new contracts were signed as a result of a public call for the delivery of project proposals for the 2021 Development Programme, and the call was made by the Board of Islands which received 55 project applications, of which 17 applications from the Split-Dalmatia County area. It is about supporting small capital projects that want to improve island infrastructures and quality of life on islands, whose implementation has just been allocated 14 million kuna, out of which 4 and a half million kuna for projects in the Split-Dalmatia County area. As extremely important, I also point out activities as part of the development of the National Development Plan of the island of the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds which, in cooperation with island coordinators, have developed a base of island projects and project ideas. So far, 426 project proposals and project ideas worth around 6 billion kuna have been collected from the Split-Dalmatia County area. Let me finally take this opportunity from this payphone to congratulate the 30th anniversary of the draft 4th Guard Brigade of Spiders, which is a symbol of the city of Split and Dalmatia because of its merit and immeasurable contribution in the Homeland War, and today it is really important to show respect for the members of this brigade, the families of the dead and their contribution to modern and free Croatia. And today, many years after the Homeland War, veterans of this brigade make their contribution to Croatian society through various projects, have used 1.8 million kunas of EU funds for projects that continue to contribute to Croatian freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u43241	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives will be that Mosta in the name of the Honored Representative Nino Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u43341	April is the most cruel month, says one giant of the 20th century, referring to a land where the birth of a spring new life leaves an even greater impression of desolation and emptiness. April here looks like the most cruel moon, can be devastating, dangerous for superheroes, such as Willy Beros, Minister Beros. I will try to explain in this 5 minute why we support the initiative for Minister Beros, why it is not some mere pre-election pressure, I will give six very clear and concrete arguments, six of which I would like to hear an answer from, from him or from Prime Minister Plenkovic. But it is not just a problem in Willi Beros, it has been 5 years since Andrej Plenkovic led the Croatian Government, Croatian Governments, and now that we draw the line after 5 years, 5 years is a solid period, he and those who studied Kardeli and formed on this, know that the five-year-old is one cycle in which social and economic reforms can be made. After these five years, it is clear that Plenkovic's government has not been a priority, moreover as if it suits them with the disorganization and misalignment of that system because no concrete measures have been taken in those 5 years to stabilise the health system at any level, neither at any level, financial, organisational or personnel level. The choice of ministers shows how much Plenkovic holds to health care. Minister Kujundzic spent 3.5 years and the only change he made in the health system is the name of the ministry. From the Ministry of Health to the Ministry of Health. The losses were accumulated and 3.5 years as they continued in the year and a few months of Minister Beroša, doctors and nurses were leaving the system, no organisational changes were launched. Berosch continued on this path of indemnity. His sin is a sin of iniquities. He did not financially rationalise the system, as much as in last year for his ministry, the costs of the health system have increased even though the scope of the service provided has been significantly reduced. How? Why? Another sin. His vision of the financial stabilisation of the system he represented was primarily based on new commitments. A new tax, new excise duties, new allocations for health insurance, it's like someone in public gave that handsome comparison, as in a water-losing irrigation system, we'll unnecessarily solve the problem by throwing in more water. Three. Beroš has without reason extended the procurement of protective equipment, tests and other materials to combat COVID outside the public procurement system. The world market has stabilized long ago, why is it still outside the public procurement system? So maybe it's just so that jobs can be done by florists, manual photographers, etcetera. Fourth. Total non-organization of the vaccination order system. This is what we have witnessed in recent days and I will remind you that we in Croatia have an excellent system of e-ordering of patients who are recognised in the EU as excellent. So we had some kind of foundation and knowledge. Fifthly, non-sanctioning the excessive vaccination of political powers, even those personally appointed as 35-year-old healthy member of the Governing Council of the KBC Zagreb, which together with the equally healthy and equally young wife of the vaccine among the first in Croatia. And the sixth, the problem of debt to the wholesalers. They say they've solved the problem. Well, they didn't get rid of it, but they're in charge of the banks, so now we owe it to the majors, part of the banks, and the problem is going to escalate again in 5, 7 or 9 months, anyway. Here's these six reasons, I can also talk about 2.5 billion kunas how much the system owes to healthcare professionals on overtime fees, but also basics. Beroš says this way, I quote: "The order can be made when buying cheese and cream, but such order when it comes to vaccination can't be done." Such an attitude is audible to those who have already abused the system and encourages others to do the same. Now how can a man who has such a public attitude be able to reform one of the most complex public systems? Not at all. What do you need to do? They say it's easy for you to understand, we know what to do, but ruling has no political capacity for it. Everything already states in the National Health Development Strategy from 2012 to 2020. However, this remains a dead letter on paper. At the beginning of the epidemic, Minister Beroš accused doctors of bringing COVID from skiing, announcing investigations, and today we are in a position to be investigated by state bodies for dealing with the vaccination platform.hr, which I repeat is the least of the problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u43342	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47050	Good morning, respected MPs and respected MPs. Today's first item of the agenda: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Biofuels for Transport, Second Reading, P.Z.E. No. 118 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia based on Article 18 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia in relation to Art. 172. 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Economy, the amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives. I would ask the applicant's representative to give an additional explanation of this law. With us is Secretary of State Ivo Milatić. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47051	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. President, esteemed MPs and MPs. There is a final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Biofuels Act for Transport before you. Amendments and additions to the law are proposed to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia in line with a common European policy relating to the use of renewable energy sources in transport. By entering a new decade before Member States, new targets related to energy efficiency and renewable energy sources, including the specific objective of using renewable energy in transport. So-called the winter or Christmas energy law package related to Europe's targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions was adopted in 2018. Last week, however, the European Commission confirmed the new climate objective of reducing greenhouse gases in the Union, including emissions and removal by 2030. increase to at least 55% compared to 1990. It is thus expected that there will also be new challenges ahead of energy legislation. Emissions of greenhouse gases from transport to the Republic of Croatia according to data for 2019 take part in total greenhouse gas emissions with 27.9%. If we look at only emissions from the energy sector, transport is involved with more than 40% of total energy sector emissions. Therefore, compliance with EU Directive 2018/2001 on the promotion of the use of renewable energy, which established a common legal framework for the promotion of the use of renewable energy in transport, will have a significant impact on the reduction of sectoral and overall CO2 emissions to the Republic of Croatia. To remind you, the Biofuels Act for transport was first passed in 2009. so far, he has experienced more changes in order to continue to comply with European legislation. In accordance with the 2009 Directive, The Republic of Croatia's commitment was until 2020. Ensure 10% of energy from renewable sources in transport. In addition, the law is harmonised when stricter sustainability conditions are introduced for biofuels placed on the market and all in accordance with the so-called ‘sustainability’. ILUC Directive on the indirect application of land from 2015 Thus, the production of biofuels must not compete with food production or may have a negative impact on the use of certain types of land. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Republic of Croatia has drawn closer to its target, and has contributed in particular to the obligation to use renewable electricity in public transport. These amendments and additions to the law represent a continuity that needs to ensure that the new target is reached from 14% of renewable energy in transport by 2030. The obligation to increase renewables in transport is in line with the indicative path presented in the integrated national energy and climate plan, which becomes the main document of energy planning for the period from 2021 to 2030. The calculation of the indicative trajectory shall be based on the methodology specified relating to the quality and quantity of the placing of certain types of biofuels, the methods and sustainability of biofuel production, the conditions of production of raw materials for biofuels and the obligation to reduce greenhouse gas emissions throughout the cycle from the production and processing of certain raw materials to the end of application. The criteria and methods of balance and proof of other forms of renewable energy in transport such as hydrogen and electricity are also prescribed. This law also defines a way to achieve the set target, by combining the obligation of a renewables market for public transport and public sector fuel users and of counties and large cities by promoting energy efficiency in transport and building infrastructure for alternative fuels. The main amendments and additions to this law and the objectives they wish to achieve include the following, as mentioned earlier, the creation of a prerequisite for meeting the 14% renewable energy target set in transport by 2030 and the indicative pathway by combining the obligation for the parties to the bonds or distributors of diesel and petrol fuels to place renewable energy on the market in the form of biofuels, advanced fuels, renewable electricity or hydrogen or renewable energy on the market of 11.14% in 2030. In accordance with the National Energy Climate Plan and the regulation of the obligations of public transport fuel users and the public sector of 2.86% in 2030. in accordance with the pathways from the National Energy Climate Plan. Over the years, the prescribed obligation has been gradually increased and in 2030 it will look 11.14% for suppliers and 2.86 for the public transport sector. This bill provides for measures to promote energy efficiency in transport and measures to build public infrastructure for alternative fuels in county and city plans when designing public policy measures and to develop projections for the use of renewable sources in transport in public services, which should be notified to the ministry. We prescribe the obligation to plan reporting on renewable sources in transport in accordance with Regulation 2018/1999 and to record biofuels and other renewable energy according to sustainability requirements and to reduce greenhouse gas emissions of at least 6%. We are in line with the provisions of Directive 2018/2001 relating to the quantities, the quality and the way in which certain biofuels, advanced fuels and other renewable energy sources for transport and raw materials for the production of biofuels, advanced biofuels and fuels or other renewable energy sources for transport in terms of their origin and sustainability of the processing or production. An important part of the reporting at European level will thus refer to data that will be able to prove that raw materials and the sustainability of biofuel production can be proven. Furthermore, the law lays down the obligation to pay a special environmental fee for not placing biofuels on the market and to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The same obligation is extended to the obligation to use electricity and hydrogen from renewable energy sources in the transport sector by these amendments and additions to the law, and it will be possible to sell renewable electricity and hydrogen on its own charging facilities. Between the two readings, the law had fewer nomotechnical corrections. We expect the proposed legislative changes to have a positive impact on the increase in electricity since gas and diesel distributors will be able to justify their obligations by delivering renewable electricity or hydrogen on their own charging facilities. This measure will speed up the construction of alternative infrastructure and increase the number of chargers of electric vehicles right in the section of the retail of classical fuels, and will consequently boost investments in green energy production at the very site of petrol stations. Also, this law is important in terms of withdrawing funds from the EU funds. In this respect, and through the National Recovery and Resistance Programme, energy transition in transport is of great importance. The plan contains a series of measures related to e-mobility, the use of renewable hydrogen, and also the first innovative plant for the production of advanced biofuels with negative carbon footprints. When the plant is built, it will allow for two 2.5 tonnes of plant residues and rapidly growing non-intense crops grown on land of poor quality to be replaced with the energy value of one ton of oil. Following this, we propose to the Croatian Parliament this Final Proposal to amend and supplement the Biofuels Act for adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47052	Thanks to the secretary of state, you can stay behind the pay phone since we have replicas. The first is a respected colleague, Andreja Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47053	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office. Dear Secretary of State, our strategic investment project should be Sisak Biorefinery. So transforming the existing refinery into biorefinery. There is a lot of money invested in 250 million euros and should start by 2025 with work. Capacity as much as I've seen 55,000 tons of biodiesel. However, those 3 relatively large companies that were shut down some 90,000 tonnes of biofuels a few years ago. What is the situation in Croatia now? I found only a few of our domestic producers or biofuel distributors. Obviously we still have a lot to rely on import. So, do you have any idea how many companies we have and whether the state invests in private companies and what your plans really are in that sense, or whether we're still going to.../incomprehensible/... import? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47054	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47055	Thanks for asking. As for the existing situation as we did in the first reading here, there are still some companies in Croatia that have produced biodiesel before. They had a certain problem with removing incentives that were resolved at the end of arbitration and adequate, adequate settlement of their damage. They are now on the market and in case they give their product marketable, market competitive can be sold in Croatia. So far, it's more or less importable. That's why we predicted that for advanced fuels and bioethanol we would encourage this biorefinery in Sisak to happen, that in a place that already existed as an object where biorefinery was made one such object that would simply satisfy our market and be a leader in the region.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47056	Comrade Pavić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47057	Dear secretary, I don't think there are any more people who are aware that the green agenda that the EU is pushing is here before us and that we need to stick to it. And it's good to align those laws that we started to harmonize. According to the information we read in the paper, the Sisak refinery should actually be a regional biofuels centre. That's how it was defined in some inscriptions. As much as that is true, I would ask you to answer that on the one hand, on the other hand, I am interested in the phase in which we are in the legislative regulation that you mentioned earlier. You said there was actually a period before us where we would have to define a lot of energy laws. So the energy regulation is whether we are here, where we have reached that percent of the maximum that we need to achieve in order to achieve all those goals that we set for ourselves by 2030 or by 2050.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47058	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47059	As far as this part of the legislation is concerned, we have therefore foreseen with this law everything we are obliged to do. We think we're going to catch up with these goals, this project you mentioned is absolutely something that goes in favour of meeting these goals for a number of reasons. Because we also have to take care of the green public procurement, which means that the biofuel that is produced does not leave a carbon footprint in the supply market and the Croatian market needs a stable amount of biofuels or bioethanol, so we are convinced that through this legislation that has now been made, simply that the preconditions for it are created and clearly that we now need to follow it all together that it does.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47060	Comrade Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47061	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State, as you pointed out, the directive really aims to make the final consumption of energy in the renewable transport sector 14% by 2030. We are witnessing numerous competitions where cities, major cities have really restored public road fleets, so buses for urban and suburban transport are very high quality both with biofuels or with natural gas or on electric power. As it will be in the future, will you continue on this and how much you insist on replacing public traffic as much as possible with such... ?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47062	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47063	Thanks for asking. Of course, we will insist, all that has happened so far, that means replacing existing old buses that have polluted, spending too much on LNG and natural gas, and with highly efficient diesel engines, will do so that these companies will achieve in their balance sheet and will certainly have a lot of space because they will cost less cost and create themselves some accumulation and, with the support of the state, in terms of emobility and the purchase of electric buses, the purchase of a charge station for that same period of 10 years, we are going to move as much public transport to electricity and water. So that's the idea. The criticism that we shouldn't have helped diesel buses now is incorrect. We've now cut down on the show, highly efficient diesel buses and then we're going towards no bus shows later.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47064	Thank you. And colleague Bacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47065	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I have directed my replica before you mentioned the National Recovery and Resistance Plan at the end of your presentation and my question was in that direction. In fact, the recovery plan and the resilience that we discussed 14 days ago, there was a lot of talk about green technologies, green production and biofuel production. I was interested in whether the Government was also interested in making a national plan which is and what are the projects contained in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan and which would have certain support subsidies in their realisation and, if so, how much and what, what is the approach to subsidising this form of transport, first of all, which is driven by biofuels? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47066	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47067	Thank you for asking, Mr. Bacic. It is certainly a big project for us, and it is a very important project, which is building biorefinery in Sisak, where in the National Recovery Plan we have foreseen a billion kunas for this project and clearly it is not enough because we have yet, this project will be financed from the innovation fund and clearly with the INA funds itself and with their sources. This is very important for us because we believe that, apart from achieving that we will have sufficient production of several categories in Croatia or several generations of biofuels, we will also raise the economy in this sense, we will employ a number of people in this area and, most importantly, we will put into operation a large number of hectares of a low category of land in an area that is extremely endangered in every sense now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47068	Thank you, Secretary of State, you can return to your post. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, I'm opening a debate. The first in line is the Green-left bloc representative club and respected colleague Sandra Bencic. My colleague doesn't seem to be here, so she's losing her right to speak. Second of all, dear colleague Ruzica Vukovac on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47069	I thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary with an associate. Therefore, the national objective of placing biofuels on the market is the minimum mandatory objective of placing biofuels on the market for the purposes of transport to the Republic of Croatia and is defined as part of the total share of renewable energy in the total annual direct energy consumption in transport involving only diesel fuel, fuel and biofuels consumed in road and rail transport and electricity consumed in transport and expressed as a percentage in the national action plan taking into account the prescribed average energy values of individual fuels. The maximum contribution of biofuels produced from cereals and other crops rich in starch, sugar crops and olives and cultures grown as major crops on the agricultural area, primarily for energy production in the achievement of the national target referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, shall not exceed 7% in the total annual direct energy consumption in transport. In order to calculate and determine the achievement of the national objective, the following rules apply, so they are taxed, I will only single out those for which it is important to repeat it is therefore taken into account only those biofuels that meet the sustainability requirement prescribed by this law regardless of whether raw materials for the production of biofuels are grown in the Republic of Croatia or imported, then fuels produced from waste and scrap, except for residues from agriculture, aquaculture, fisheries and forestry, must meet only the requirement to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the emissions generated by diesel fuel and motor gasoline. No account shall be taken of that amount of diesel or petrol which is placed on the market by a single distributor for the purpose of filling the mandatory stocks of oil and petroleum products in accordance with a specific law governing the market in oil and petroleum products or that quantity of diesel fuel or motor gasoline placed on the market, which shall be placed on the market for the defence needs of the Croatian military or for purposes in accordance with the international obligations of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the minimum objective set, the Ministry, as indicated in the proposal for these amendments and the addition of the law should be revised, be careful, by September 2019, in order to establish the possibility of achieving the objective, taking into account the market potential and price of those biofuels. From all the above, it remains unclear whether Croatia has set the goal indeed and revised and what the results of the revision are, indeed, strange are the provisions of the amendment proposal and the addition of the law expected to be passed by this body, in which we set targets for the year that expired 2 years ago. The Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development argues that in the discussion of the proposal for a law on HS working bodies, as well as in the debate after the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Biofuels for Transport, there were no substantive remarks and proposals on which the applicant could be particularly obvious. Interesting because the debate lasted, if I recall correctly, more than three hours. Since the ministry argues that parliamentary debates are sound, likely and groundless, I will repeat only one of the questions that I have raised in the last debate on this subject. I believe the answer won't be, but it doesn't matter, as it comes to the subject that enters the realm of this law, many consider it important, I'll be bold enough to repeat. Therefore, for economic and ecological reasons, the improvement of production and the expansion of biofuel use in the world and the EU, due to a limited area for biomass production, could continue to replace fossil fuels, but only in one part. According to the EU, by 2030, with the development of other renewable energy sources, biofuels would replace transport oil by 25% in Croatia, which is 452,325 tonnes. Today, agricultural areas that occupy 2 955 728 hectares, of which more than a million hectares are suitable, 1,740 000 are limited, and 806,000 is a permanent unfavourable area for agricultural production, so the potential of farmland is over 2 million hectares, but we are processing only about a million hectares. Today, it is possible in biomass agriculture, so we are talking about organic residues and waste, to get 673 530 tonnes of annual biofuels, so that there is no risk of the natural renewal of organic matter in the soil. Croatia has 2 688 687 hectares of forest and forest land, where it grows more than 10 million cubic metres annually, and the cutting point is 6,564 thousand metres of cubic meters. Of which, 60% are used for industrial wood and heating, and the rest of 40% or more precisely, 2,625 thousand cubic metres remains a waste in the forest. If waste were to be reduced to a normal amount of 15% then for bioenergy, it would remain as much as 45%. This amount of wood for bioenergy is sufficient to produce about 600,000 tonnes of biofuels in equivalent amounts of oil. Using existing stocks in agriculture and forestry, today one can produce a million-point 273,000 tonnes of biofuels annually. This amount exceeds 2.8 times the amount Croatia will need to use by 2030 instead of fossil fuels. Croatia has the necessary areas in agriculture, as well as quality forests, to produce food and biofuels according to existing EU directives, but unfortunately it has not put them into operation in a high-quality and functional manner. So what happens in our Croatian forests? Croatian citizens see the devastation of Croatian forests, they see them all the way from Brussels, where I recall they asked the Vidra Association to deliver all the findings and evidence they collected on this topic. This is how the Vidra Report of Deforestination of Investment Croatia was created. It shows how a public company operating about 80% of the state forest works, while the remaining 20 belong to private owners. The report says that in 10 years, 100 thousand hectares or a billion square meters of Croatian forests were devastated in Croatia, and only in 2/3 of Croatia where they were able to document the situation on the ground. They also calculated this from the Croatian Forests' documentation, that an official deficit of nearly 20 million cubic metres of wood mass, the equivalent of a billion euros, was recorded. Only from Sljemen, which only 0.38% of all forests in Croatia, 330,000 cubic cc's of 14m euros worth of wood have disappeared. Records are attached, data for 2,000 fields in Croatia, so-called Golosjeka, which is more than 10 hectares, where all existing trees are visited completely. Experts have calculated that growth in economic forests through this 10-year period will be 5.5 million cubic metres, and Croatian forests have planned a cut of 6.4 million cubic metres. It's a desolation, and as we can see, the pitfalls are cut in the parks of nature. And what can the EU and Chief Prosecutor Laura Kovesa do about this issue when domestic institutions want to do nothing? The notification of the officially received application arrived on 16 January this year, officially initiating an investigation. The result can be a ban on cutting down all forests over a period of 10 years, the National Forest State Inventure, mandatory shaming and ultimately sanctioning the responsible. The conclusion of my presentation is, above all, another question in a series of questions, did we risk our own future with irresponsible behaviour and criminal actions towards resources belonging to all citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47070	He will now speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, dear colleague Pero Ćosic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47071	Thank you very much, esteemed President HS, the esteemed Secretary of State with an associate, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. One of today's top priorities is to build a climate-resistant future. As a member of the EU, the Republic of Croatia joined the course of achieving climate neutrality by 2050. The Croatian legislation has already adopted a series of measures aimed at reducing polluters' emissions, thus opening up the need for new acceptable energy sources. In order to achieve the EU's green objectives and to transpose the Directive, the provisions of Directive 2018/2001, as well as for our own, required these amendments and amendments to the laws. Today, the share of biofuels on the market in the Republic of Croatia is about 6%, significantly lower than the required obligation to meet by 2020. which is 10%. That Directive stipulates each Member State that the share of biofuels in the final consumption of energy in the transport sector will be at least 14% by 2030, and that the adoption of this law will bring us into line with the European policy relating to the use of renewable energy in transport. We know that transport is a prerequisite for the mobility of people and for the exchange of goods and must meet the needs of the population and the economy. It is therefore necessary, on the one hand, to allow for further development of transport and, on the other hand, to reduce its negative impact on the environment and its dependence on oil imports. The transport sector should be moved from primary road to a larger share of rail, river and sea transport. By developing and modernising the railways, and connecting different modes of transport to multimodal transport across Europe, we will contribute to the objectives of the European Green Plan. In order for Croatia to have a 14% share of biofuels for transport by 2030, the proposal for this law sets out a way to achieve this goal by establishing a system of renewables, public transport and public transport fuel users, and by promoting energy efficiency in transport and building infrastructure for alternative fuels. These amendments and amendments to the law also prescribe mandatory reporting as biofuels, as well as other renewable energies in accordance with sustainability requirements and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. Also with these amendments to the laws along public road and rail, ship transport is included where we expect more green hydrogen to be included in the future. In addition, it is important to note that the proposed law imposes sanctions on offenders, which will certainly contribute to the realization of those objectives with clear obligations for suppliers and distributors. In fact, some European countries have put even more ambitious, let me say, goals ahead of themselves than the directive requires. Sweden, for example, wants to achieve a zero emission rate by 2045. At the climate summit on this year's "Earth Day" marking April 22nd, the US president announced that by 2030. The U.S. halves gas emissions that causes greenhouse effect compared to 2005. And just as the EU wants it, by the end of 2050, it wants its entire economy to lead to a degree of neutrality where only so much CO2 will be created as absorbed. In addition, Russia and China have also shown their readiness to act in this direction. Biofuels, except by reducing dependence on fossil fuels, foster energy independence. We expect the economy to develop in this direction, which means that we can increase economic growth with the benefits of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, which is extremely important for our future. In order not to depend on imports, we need to invest more in innovation, as well as in development, we need to move from the first generation of biofuel production to the second or third generation, then we will not use land directly related to food production. One of those projects that we mentioned today and last time, certainly this "Rafinery in Sisak" that should start producing second-generation biofuels. Here I am pleased that the sooner this one becomes operational, because it is an important, important factor for the development of biofuels not only in Croatia but in this part of Europe. Europe is currently focused on hydrogen, which I call a "fuel future" for a reason because of its great potential in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. We should therefore include hydrogen in energy strategies and operational plans, since hydrogen can be used as raw materials or as a source of energy in industrial and chemical processes, and in all sectors of transport. One of these projects is being prepared in Brod-Posavina County in Slavonski Brod. So for a long time now, it has been planned to build a gas power plant that would only cover the top energy needs, both the Republic of Croatia and the surrounding countries. The excess energy that they cannot sell would be used to produce hydrogen, so the electrolysis of water would produce hydrogen, and that by-product created by heating on gas turbines, means the CO2 obtained would be captured, compressed and stored there in geological structures. So this power plant, even though it uses gas to drive, would be zero greenhouse gas emissions. It is high time for Europe as well as for the whole world to drastically reduce dependence on special fuel markets. The development of biofuels for transport can stimulate employment in new green technologies, therefore, the circular economy has huge potential. The Green Plan is not just environmental policy, it is an economic and geopolitical need. Here is the National Recovery Plan of the Republic of Croatia which brings reforms to Croatia's economic transformation, the award criteria are projects that include green transition and environmental protection. Therefore, in order to achieve these ambitious climate objectives, all stakeholders and competent resolutions must contribute to this transition. It is time to strengthen our economy and create jobs resistant to change in the future especially after the economic downturn caused by the Covida-19 virus, and our political commitment now is to become the first climate neutral continent. So I'm glad that at the time of this first reading, we had one big consensus in this assembly, and I hope that it will be when this law is passed, and I want to say in the end that the HDZ Club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47072	The third debate will be those colleagues, Zeljko Pavic, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47073	Dear President, state secretaries with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, the discussions we had on this first-reading law did not open many topics directly to the law, but they opened a whole series of topics related to biofuels and biofuel production in Croatia and renewable energy sources. In fact, the changes and additions of the law in 2018 have already introduced modellings for the penalization of biofuels placed on the market and have already achieved a great deal since this resulted in an increase in fuel on the Croatian market and in 2019 it was 5.26% of the share in the total gasoline and gas oils placed on the market. In addition, increased factors that multiply electricity from renewable sources and spent on road transport from 2.5 to 5 and in rail transport from 1 to 2.5. In addition to distributors, petrol diesel suppliers are system bonds of public undertakings in transport, meaning railways, tram transport which are required to use exclusively renewable electricity and cities and units of regional self-government which are also responsible for increasing renewable energy in transport, including the development of alternative infrastructure. The implementing acts of the law accurately define elements related to the payment of liability charges and other sustainability elements of biofuels which, during the 3 years of implementation, have been extremely well compensated for the lack of biofuels being placed on the market from previous years. The problem to address is to ensure the continuity of the implementation of the transport transition policy towards sustainable and environmentally acceptable transport fuels in the period beyond 2020, and therefore these amendments to the laws proposed to bring the Republic of Croatia's legislative framework in line with the amendments to the EU regulatory framework following the adoption of Directive 2018/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018 on the promotion of the use of renewable energy. We therefore define, inter alia, the objective to achieve by 2030 and, in accordance with that provision, we should achieve a national target of at least 14% of renewable energy sources in direct transport consumption to the Republic of Croatia. And although we did not achieve the target that was defined by 2020, which was 10% renewable energy sources in direct transport consumption, we already achieved the 5.26% already mentioned. We believe there is room for optimism and that the objectives defined by 2030 will be possible. We are all, I believe, that this goal can be achieved especially when we take into account all renewable energy sources because if we take into account biofuels and the fact that we currently do not have any biorefinery of enthusiasm in Croatia would quickly disappear. In fact, when we talk about this problem, I need to draw attention to the fact that as far as biodiesel is concerned, we need to focus on imports because all 4 biofuel factories in Croatia have been successfully shut down. By noting that some of them did not even start working when owners realized what conditions await them on the Croatian market. The factories are closed, workers are on the labour market, agricultural areas are untapped, and we will either import or pay the foams again because of the miserable results we achieve in the area of use of alternative fuels in transport. During the debate on this topic, we are drawn to the fact that the existence and operation of biofuel factories makes sense if the agricultural areas on which the crops for production are grown close to the factory because otherwise, by increasing transport costs poses a question of cost-effectiveness of biofuel production. Therefore, regardless of the fact that we have more than 400,000 hectares of unused agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia feared that no indirect change in the use of land used for food production would occur because we know that first-generation biofuels are derived from olives, sugar crops, cereals and other starch-rich cultures and are grown with areas that could be used for the purposes of the food market or animal feed. According to current plans and programmes, which are presented both to the assembly and to our citizens, that will not happen. For example, if we take into account the allegations from the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, there is reason to be optimistic about biofuel production because, according to the plan in Sisak, biorefinery should be built for which a billion kuna should be allocated from EU funds, which, together with the means planned by the INA, should be sufficient to build biorefinery. In fact, it is the transformation of the Sisak Refinery into a regional biofuel production centre, although there is one biorefinery in Italy. What is not clear is the impact on this agricultural culture from which biofuels should be produced in the refinery, since it is Chinese cane, a miscantus that has not been grown in Croatia so far. Miscantus is said to be the most efficient, purest and cheapest fuel in the world, but I fear that we still do not have accurate calculations on profitability and production in the Biorefinery Sisak and that we are about to have large and important activities aimed at achieving this profitability, especially to be at least costier than the fossil fuel refinery, which is actually our goal, not only to move on to green energy but also to be more favourable to our final consumers. Likewise, although the secretary in response to the replica said that by adopting this law, we will have legislation that fully defines energy, I believe that we will also need to bring new regulations in the future to stimulate the transition to renewable energy sources because these transitions are not cheap. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47074	We now move to the discussion of the Club of Representatives of HSS and HSU and the esteemed representative Željko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47075	The Honorable President of HS, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. One of the laws that may seem to be irrelevant or not as important as another, but I think it is too important for the Republic of Croatia and what saddens me to talk about it again when the time has come to comply with EU legislation. I believe that we should think carefully about this law and make a whole new law adapted to our Croatian conditions because as far as biofuels and renewable energy sources are concerned, we are still burned against the rest of developed Europe, except in wind power plants, and here we are masters. There are some masters in the wind power plants, and some are doing very well here, and they're taking it to work, and they've thrown everything else aside. Absolute clean renewable energy sources do not exist except for solar energy, but it is not absolutely clean either because we have to consume certain raw materials and energy to produce solar panels. Today, there has been a lot of talk here about biomass from the remains of military production for use, for the production and production of electricity. The use of residues from agricultural production, from war production to this purpose, is a crime to the ground as a parent food substrate. We also use biomass from the field, and today at a time when we have no cattle, when our livestock has failed we cannot bring biomass back to us the level of humus falls to the ground, the soil is harder to process, the yields are reduced, and then we have to invest more energy to get a certain level of production, and the food is with water what a man must have. And I think this kind of raw material for energy production as a renewable source should be somewhere in the back. We also use too little biogas from waste, we have too few small biogas plants. When you drive around Germany on their farms that aren't too big, you see that the mass of them has small biogas plants to produce gas. 15 years ago, I was in Mureck, Austria, Mureck is one small place that has a cooperative where all those who heat up on biomass, all those who supply this plant with some biomass raw material or all those who have forests, had one huge oven that used wood cutting wood from scrap wood to which the whole place was heated, had production at the same place of corn silencing biogas and had the production of biodiesel from oiled rape oil and diesel engines on biodiesel that produced electricity, 15 years ago. We have not built such a facility in Croatia. Biomass from the woods, it's just a crime. We sell multi-meters, wood, logs, I'm sad when I'm out hunting somewhere, so I see that they grind logs and sell to strangers that they produce energy either warm, or electric in their countries, and they bounce away from the CO2 quota and they dissipate in that way. Are we such idiots and ignorants that we don't know how to make plants so we can use what we can and can get out of the woods on our own? Not everything can be taken from the forest, but today everything is driven from the forest. When you walk along the road by the woods in some places look at where the logs are standing, there are multiples and there are branches, so everything is exported out of the woods, there's a big machine coming, all the grinds, it turns into a cut and everything is going somewhere. Although we have cases of driving around in that cut, and the entire hull, so when the truck flips over, we just find out about it. Why aren't we using this in Croatia? If we can't use it at this point, why don't we wait for a moment when we can? We have a science that can do that. We have high schools, universities that know and have a profession, we have engineers, we have people who know. Let's hire them here to produce cleaner energy in Croatia, not to run around the white world looking for bread to live. Which is why I need this law. We do not simplify legislation fully in Croatia to the extent that the administration for the installation of a solar roof is minimal? Try putting solar panels on your roof and selling that electricity to HEP. Try it. You'll see it's for some impossible mission. Except for those who have a relationship so they can get a quota from HERA so they'll put on their roof, which is a big investment, is not even a small investment. We're talking about clean-energy vehicles here, so we're talking about electricity. It's not all our energy. The vast majority of our electricity is not pure energy. It comes from a Sisak thermal power plant, it comes from a thermal power plant in Istria, it's not pure energy, no matter what it looks like to us on the plug that it's clean and that it doesn't pollute the environment. What we're discussing, we're beating up empty straw here that won't even be energy, we're patching up some laws, we're adapting to some other systems in the EU, instead of trying to impose our attitude, our science and our solutions. We have a lot of innovators, we have people who are interested in this but they're not encouraged to do it and do it, but they just get by on their fingers when they're trying to do something about streams. We have young people who have shown they know how to develop a miracle from industry. Here's Mate Rimac. There are small Mate Romans around Croatia but we don't give them a chance. We prefer to employ in cities, municipalities, ministries those who don't know but there are, of some friends, uncles, those or those who are holding this whole system back. The administration choked us, especially in this segment of renewable energy. I've been driving a car on gas for 12 years. I've been punished every year for driving on a gas car. Why don't we cancel that 600 kn and encourage people to drive to a clean source of energy? Why don't we get that close to people? We're talking about the LNG terminal, and we're punishing people here. The house is heated on wood, meaning on biomass, centrally and on gas, the wood has reached that price, the heating tree so that it no longer pays to buy a heating tree and lay on it, but it is easy to turn the thermostat and heat on the gas. Which is why we did it to our people in the rural area, that they can't get a heating tree at a good price, somewhere they can't even get a heating tree and that's a renewable energy source, and there we would very much reduce the dependence on gas imports, oil or any of the fuels used today. And we're talking about energy independence in Croatia. Well, I don't think anyone should mention that because we sold the INA, the strongest energy company in the area. We sold it, we gave it away. We gave it to companies that were five times smaller than INA and we're talking about energy independence. We're more dependent than ever, and we'll be even more dependent than we are today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47076	We're done with the debates of representatives' clubs, and no, excuse me, so colleague Bulj has also decided to speak on behalf of the MPs' club, please. On behalf of the Bridge Representatives Club, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47077	Thank you very much. To talk about renewable sources, about biofuels on transport, to rewrite the regulations of the EU legislation that is imposed on us in continuity, from day to day, but when we talk about the problem of rising greenhouse gas concentration, then we need to mention that the Republic of Croatia, we have the future of alternative energies, that we have the possibility of having all the conditions to be independent of energy and to be of the least of the communities, independent families, that if we used, only the sun, I know it's not a topic, but I need to introduce ourselves in the debate, that we have the potential and resources, we have God-given most sunny days, and we can really have independent families with the installation of microsolars, with the part that we give from renewable sources of wind power that is classic robbery of Croatian citizens, which has simply led to create independence and Croatian energy families. We have roofs today, we have areas where we could use our solar energy of course and be, of course, bioenergy. Biofuels in the Republic of Croatia as an alternative to fossil fuels, I don't even know who has the potential because it all comes down to imports, and that material or re-promaterial that could be used for biofuels is exported. Here I will just mention something that is important that in this law are the main objectives of some kind that policies, mainly county and local self-government, are directed towards the fact that public infrastructure has alternative fuels, including the use of this transport fuel. However, talking about biofuels at this point when our children are transporting, school children, here in my town of Sinj, transporting buses old I mean not knowing how much, here every month we burn down a bus full of children, so I don't see at all why we're discussing this way when we're not willing to limit that to those whom parents pay, the state subsidized, the county subsidized, the local self-government, at least that technically correct vehicles carry our dick, and not that our parents are afraid to send their children, the code sends them to death. Here I am speaking my example, an example from my neighborhood where a few buses were burned a month ago during the ride and only by the skill of the driver, that crowded bus of children was never killed, and here we are talking about alternative fuels. Do we have any restrictions on the transport bus that are on oil, on fossil fuels, on age, we don't. That's what we did with the cabs. Do you know why? If there was an Umber interest, or if I don't know who not, again in the way it was done. However, why am I asking questions here, we did not limit the bus to protect the meaning of the year, to limit it in years, to be safe in traffic and, of course, to meet these standards that have been set for us and that we all swear on green policies? So on the one hand, we have resources and potentials to use the energy they will generate, which will produce both an independent family and, of course, independent Croatia as a state, energy speaking, energy. I don't see any reason why we don't have that in a strategy to think about it that way. I would once again point out that Croatia is about 0.3% in terms of renewable sources and solar energy at the bottom of the EU, and we are the richest in days, the sunny days Bod gave us. More Finland uses solar energy than we do, and we swear on renewable sources, in bioenergy, in the end of the fossil fuel era, protecting this reduction in greenhouse gas concentration. And basically we're doing everything the other way around, all the vice-respected representatives of the government, everything. The only wind power plants, if you've done it neatly, were you doing it while you were at the Vrdoljak, neatly. You don't know each other yet, but when you were, it was done then in the government, first the government where Zoran Milanovic SDP was, at the last cabinet session, it was then adopted. And the man in Sinj in Karakasica built an object on which he put the tanners and could not join. A man can't get into the quota, so big systems can go up into the quota, wind power plant Krsh-Paden. And we're talking stories here, and it all works out, I mean interesting. So, first of all, we're not independent because what do we have to go after the secretary of state? Yes, here is the Croatian state by billions of kuna, which local community, I think, local community, regional county and state half a billion kuna per year gives people in need of heating. If that money had been directed and they had been legally regulated so that solars could be placed on their roofs, we would have saved that money, and for that money, here's someone to calculate how much it can be done. We give a subsidy a billion and a half kuna per year for wind power plants, for that money, calculate how many public institutions we could, HS could also be this solar plant is used, government, other institutions and institutions. So we could allow these people in need to be independent of energy and not every year to seek help and incentives. It would be some kind of social, economic, energy-planned policy if we had not monopolies like Krsh-Paden but had what God has given us to do in the interest of a man of this law, in the interest of a man of an individual, not in the interest of, of this foreign multinational company, or I don't know who everyone doesn't. And once again as we talk about biofuels in transport, the infrastructure we need, after we've sold everything out just now was mentioned by the INE that was handed over in hand means when we talk about independence. I would say in the end only here that the Croatian potentials we have in the renewable energy source has the potential to be independent. Here I am watching the Cetina River, the Cetina River gives 40% of the Republic's hydropower. And there is absolutely nothing returned to that area, but in this area, if so, it would at least be for every job the entrepreneur has reduced the price of energy. No, it's much more expensive down there. Why do we have the wrong policies? And who will come to live in those parts? So let's plan policies to be even, to be social, to be, to have independent families, to have independent energy and to follow trends, rather than to benefit from foreign interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47078	Now we've come to an end with debates of the representatives' clubs, we're moving on to an individual debate, the first reported by a respected colleague, Anka Mrak Taritash. Since he is not here, he is losing his right to speak, and then we will still obey finally on behalf of the motionary, Secretary of State of Honor Ivo Milatić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47079	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Parliamentarians and MPs, I thank you for the debate that was this for this law and this one I have a few things to say. First of all, the Legislative Committee has given two amendments. The first amendment to Articles 14 and 2 of the second amendment to Article 24 which we accept so that, for the sake of the minutes, this one can be established. As for the debate and what was in the debate, Parliamentarian Vukovac spoke in fact in a part where she practically expressed her wish and her idea to move on to biofuels almost entirely. Croatia is not an island alone in the world, Croatia is part of the EU and part of the world and we are trying to do what is realistically possible. This idea of yours that you have presented and which is scientifically founded, to its realization, is a tremendous effort and a tremendous obstacle. First, in order for all of this to be produced in biofuels, there should be huge capacities, and as far as I know, how many people in this area are informing me there are also serious problems for biofuels to be fully used in this car because there are simply certain situations around algae, around bacteria, about stability, about ethanol that works in one way in the summer, in the other way. It means that the EU has set a 14% target and that it is as conscious as Croatia that 14% will not be achieved through biofuels 1, 2, 3 generations but through biofuels plus electricity. It's about something that's real, we stick to it, and we're safe and aware that we're going to reach that goal. As far as this, Mr Pavic and his debate are concerned, it is true that we are independent of the fact that we have had a situation of inaction of several governments on biofuels. We've caught serious business for the past four years, and today we've finished the year of Lord 2020 with 7%, and the goal was 10%. Of course we're not happy that we haven't reached 10%, but I assure you that we haven't done this much in the last four years that would have been embarrassing 3%, if we'd continued as it was going, and maybe less than 3%. So we did it as much as we could in this time. What we are sure of is that the objective of 14% if we continue to work like this, and there is no reason not to do so will be quite achieved, especially in the part of electricity where we have a terrible capacity for tourism, given our plans for what we will do in terms of e-mobility and electrical Chargers that will be installed over the next few years on our roads and the consumption that will happen when European guests come to us with their electric cars. This will all raise European, Croatian goals and I am convinced that we will achieve these goals without any problem. As for Mr. Lenart's debate on behalf of the HSS Club in person, it is my personal opinion that such discussions are not very instructive since they are simply always in the principle of disaster. We are not in any cave compared to the rest of the EU, but in fact, we are here as regards renewable sources in this, in the quite top of the EU and in countries that can certainly be raised by a lot. It is constantly mentioned that this situation, that something does not work in renewable sources, is already deplaced. The fact is that we are progressing in renewable sources, that it is true that in the past decade, it has not been done in the solar section as much as expected, but that part is now turning around and here yesterday you had the opportunity to see that one power plant, the wind power plant Corlat that is not in the incentive system, and that will also have solars very quickly, which will also contribute to another 70 megawatts and those goals that are ahead of us will be achieved because both legal and all other preconditions we do. It can't be said that this biomass and everything else that is used in Croatia is immediately used in a way that seems to be doing something cloudy, like something bad is doing it. I absolutely support my colleagues from the Ministry of Agriculture who are taking care of it, was a mass of one limited resource, it has one problem, which is that the use of biomass to produce energy, if it is not related to a highly efficient generation and if there is no government funding in terms of incentives for renewable energy sources is very expensive. So we're saying that we should use biomass at all costs, we should also look at what the benefits of this whole story are, the funds that would be invested there and we got the effect one, if they invest in solars, we're going to get the effect 5, and we're going to have the same renewable electricity. So in that part I don't think it makes sense to say so, to say that the administration to put solar on the roof is a clean disinformation of the Croatian public, over the past 2 years 55 MW has been placed on the roof in terms of self-supply. Before this prized home in less than a month, a new Electricity Market Act will come in which you will be able to see that there are energy communities, that there are generators, that there are closed distribution systems and finally, what Mr. Bulj often mentions here, that Croatian citizens should make money from their roofs, that they have already been able to earn from their roofs in terms of self-supply, means that products for their own needs in the maximum quantities of what they are registered in terms of connection, but through aggregates and through virtual power plants that they will be able to make possible through new laws, then those who, for example, do not live in those houses, if they smartly choose suppliers and aggregaters, can also benefit from that roof. So one is your idea and your desire to make it happen at all costs, and the other is how the entire system works, to be both legal and professional and in technical and in every sense implementing. So that part, too, we're going that way, that we're going to have this year's legislation that's going to be able to fix it. I would ask you not to say that for how long, this is the fifth time you've mentioned Mr. Karakasica with tanners, I asked you, Mr. Representative, for the last time, to address this ministry, to help him with what is going on, and I am asking you to send this gentleman to the ministry because there was a tender for small plants solarly, very soon there will be a new one. If that's exactly what you're saying, that he's got this facility and he's got everything he's got, he can certainly get into that competition and get in, the competition's public, nobody's getting anything under the grain, public counseling for the appearance of the contest takes a month, sometimes more and then the competition takes a month, so no one can say that there's something that works without knowing what's going on. But whoever thinks they're going to build their own solar power plant and isn't going to engage personally or someone who understands the whole legislative procedure, can't do it by itself. And when we talk about how much paper it takes to put solar on the roof in self-supply, I mean 4 or 5. No more, four or four papers, so we wouldn't say there's some terrible paperwork now. As far as the end goes, just to mention, in the National Recovery Plan, we're predicting e-mobility, we're also predicting a hydrogen project and the production of hydrogen electrolysis, so we've predicted significant resources here and clearly, biorefinery. When we talk about biorefinery, what is needed for biorefinery, it takes 12 750 ha of agricultural land of poor quality 5. 3 and 5... So no problem, you yourself said here in the debate how abandoned agricultural land is, so this project succeeds, the miscantus is one culture that is simply the most suitable for this and how much knowledge we have is not invasive. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In that sense, I thank everyone and look forward to the adoption of this law in order to once again adopt the sublegal acts that follow it and to implement it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47080	I'd like to thank the Secretary of State. We'll go with the replicas. I'm sorry, so there won't be any injuries to the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Then let's go to the replicas, she's my first colleague, Maric, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47081	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, you've done a very nice introduction to me by mentioning the National Recovery and Resistance Plan. I, when we discussed it, focused on health care because it's my profession but now I've been looking a little bit more for the economy and it's really under paragraph C 1.2, energy transition, biorefinery for the production of advanced biofuels, Sisak. How much money are we talking about? So, I'm interested in the sum, and I've seen that there are some projects here related to waste management, so sustainable waste management, waste disposal, rehab program,... landfills and locations polluted by hazardous waste, so it has the environmentalisation of transport and this mobility that you mentioned. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, what means are we talking about? Biorefinery and this junk I mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47082	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47083	Thank you. As far as biorefinery is concerned, as I've already said, it's a billion kunas and as far as this other piece is concerned, I don't have any data here, given that it's part of which my colleague leads out of the waste, so there's no point in telling you now, but don't worry, as soon as I get to the ministry, I'll let you know at the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47084	Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47085	Thank you very much. State Secretary, renewable energy sources are very important, so of course and biofuel in transport but the fact is, I've listed a few things that Croatia implements through legislation but we are in the implementation of very bad, mainly biofuels in transport where I said that example, our students transport buses that are ancient, just literally in traffic often occur fires due to age and not only that children are threatened but also the environment, so we are bad at implementing it I wanted to say. And as for the solar power plant in Karakasica, which man 30 kilowatts I paid for all the permits from HEP, it's all built in, HERA didn't approve him, and that's him in the last second before the new year that ran out of the old year, when we'd get not know who Agrokor or I don't know who, the man didn't break in and get this quota.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47086	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47087	Once again when it comes to these buses that you mention me to answer, it means that these old buses are also fuelled by a stable percentage of biofuels. So biofuels with old buses and no connection, but they can agree with you that that carrier operating in your area should take care to take advantage of everything that the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure offers in terms of financing new buses and that it should make sure that buses are as good and efficient as possible. And as for the gentleman who has obviously built his power plant, what I've told you is his future if he wants to continue to have that power plant his own in such a way, and he hasn't entered into the incentives is that through the aggregate and through collaboration with suppliers he pulls the maximum out of that power plant, and that will certainly be possible very soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47088	Injury of my colleague Bulj's Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47089	Thank you very much, President. He's been injured. In 238, where you yourself told the Secretary of State that this man was a carrier, that is. The owner of the transport to invite him. Don't call him because this man favors the system both in the Split-Dalmatia County which assigns lines and the entire system. So he's comfortable with it, he's a sponsor, it's Mate Junovic who's down there right now digging up the entire beach of Macarska concreteizes and so on. The system helps him.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47090	Thank you very much. Comrade Bull, it's a shame you didn't say that in your replica because this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure right now, and I have to give you a heads-up. Let's move on, Comrade Kirin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47091	Honorable President, Your Honor. The national goal of Croatia is 14% of renewable energy sources in transport by 2030. The obligation is therefore to reduce the percentage of greenhouse gases, i.e. the basic message, i.e. the primary reduction of CO2 emissions or the use of low-carbon fuels. What do you think with biofuels on the use of natural gas in transport as low-carbon fuels and stimulating the conversion of engines to natural gas, what is not a major investment? Mostly now that we have a LNG terminal and when we are discussing the construction of large water units of gas-powered ships, and especially since it is in the media that a great American shipowner intends to build a luxury cruise in Brodosplit with a gas-powered drive, precisely because of LNG terminals.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47092	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47093	Thanks for asking. The use of gas in transport is highly recommended given that it is a transit fuel, but thus we do not achieve our renewables targets in transport, but we significantly and significantly reduce emissions, which is clearly good because we are reducing CO2 emissions and reducing clear and polluting because the clear gas is cleaner. So in this one transitional phase between current heavy fuels towards electricity and hydrogen, it is logical that the gas will play its part and participate in this direction. But for this law, we have this crucial biofuel of the first, second generation, hydrogen is crucial and electricity is crucial and renewable, which is used in transport to get to 14%.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47094	Here you go, fellow Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47095	My dear secretary. I don't think it's right to minimize efforts and results. On the other hand, I feel that we can't even be satisfied with the results, they haven't achieved what they're supposed to do, but here's the time before us to show if we're going to do it. I think we also agreed in my debate... later said if we take into account biofuels and other green energy sources that we're going to achieve that 14%, and I think that's good, but there's still a lot of work ahead of us. You told me before that we no longer have laws to pass, and you just announced a new law that we're going to pass about solar power plants, so we still have laws to pass. But there are other suggestions, let's say, about the use of biogas on farms, the use of biodiesel on farms that aren't presently with us, there isn't. If you're watching what happened 15, 20 years ago on American farms, you know they produced biodiesel themselves and they were self-sustainable. We still don't have it. It's too bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47096	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47097	I apologize if we didn't get along well, I said that on this subject when it comes to biofuels and renewables in transport this is the law, and it is clear that we have other laws that are indirectly and directly related to both renewable energy and electricity markets, clearly that these laws are coming. There comes the next Electricity Market Act, and then the Law on Renewable Energy Sources, but I figured you out that way, but maybe I didn't get you right, and I'm letting you know that we didn't understand each other, but I think we do. It is important to reach the goal of knowing that the goal is not only with biofuels but also with electricity and hydrogen. Electricity is something that has now helped 1.5% to achieve the goal, so there's no reason not to achieve electricity and 3% as they will.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47098	And the last replica of fellow Sacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47099	My dear secretary. You spoke in the opening part of the speech about the project on the project of biofuel production in the Sisak Refinery, since we know about drama and 2018 when we had 800 employees there, so we came in last fall another 220 people got fired, and one of the variants was always on the table and Prime Minister Plenkovic was also talking about it and Minister Ćorić was there to activate the biofuel production process in that potential that exists... What is the situation now with this and it was such a project that was talked about about some millions of EUR, billions, etc., is there any of it, is it... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Dust, is there any living story about it yet? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47100	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47101	Did I get it right, you're asking me about Biorefinery Sisak?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47102	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47103	Yeah, yeah. God forbid it's dust now, so we wouldn't be putting it into the National Recovery Plan if we didn't have some kind of paperwork and some serious paperwork that was a prerequisite to predict it here. Of course INA's on top of it. The project is already under procedure to be declared a strategic project. All the stores about it are going. We as a ministry are actively involved. Here is a colleague who is here with me now in the assembly, Director Kristina Celić, at the head of the Committee of Strategic Project Biorafinery Sisak. So we as a state will clearly follow this project and report to the Croatian public where and where we came from because if we plotted to spend this money there, we did not draw it in vain, but in the project and I hope that we will succeed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47104	I thank the Secretary of State. This is what we came to the end of the debate, I'm the one who concludes it, and we'll vote when the conditions come to an end. We now move to the second item of the agenda, which is: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agriculture, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 95. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia in relation to Art. 172. 190. The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. I would ask the applicant's representative to give us an additional explanation of this bill. With us is the Honorable State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture Tugomir Majdak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47107	Thank you, Mr. President HS, Your Honor. Parliamentarians and gentlemen parliamentary representatives. The Agriculture Act therefore regulates the objectives and measures of agricultural policy, rules relating to the common organisation of the market in agricultural products, information and promotion measures, rules on strong alcoholic beverages, provisions on food including the National System Code of Alimentarius, quality for food and food for animals, prevention of food waste, and provisions on mineral, source and table water. Furthermore, the Agriculture Act regulates the quality system of agricultural and food products including organic production, counselling and education of farmers, agricultural databases, administrative control and control on the ground, and administrative and inspection supervision of the implementation of this law. The proposed amendments and additions to the current act will ensure the implementation of the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia and the harmonisation of national legislation with the EU acquis. We also propose improving certain existing normative solutions that have proved to be inadequate, as well as nomotechnical addition of text. Amendments and additions to the current Agricultural Act shall provide for a legal framework for the adoption of a strategy for agriculture as a strategic plan act of national importance covering the area of agriculture and rural development, for the adoption of a bio-economy strategy, and for other acts of strategic planning for the implementation of agricultural policy. In its decision of 20 October 2020, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia shall repeal Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Article 15(4), point (b) and (c) of the first subparagraph of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. 67th century 2 of the current Agricultural Act currently in force on 1 March 2021. Respecting the cited decision and the legal understanding of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia by amending and supplementing the current Law on Agriculture for users of the measure of agricultural policy, it is possible to file a complaint against the decisions of the paying agency in agriculture, fisheries and rural development in the legal procedure, as well as to file a complaint to the competent administrative court against the solutions which have been decided on the appeal. This ensures clear, predictable and effective judicial protection of rights and users in implementing agricultural policy measures. Part of the internal market organisation measures introduces a real framework for the adoption of a specific programme of support at national level to promote Croatian agricultural food products. Furthermore, the possibility of abolishing the authorisation of legal persons to carry out classification and labelling operations of bovine, porcine and sheep carcases in the event of non-compliance with the conditions and obligations to carry out those tasks shall be prescribed. The requirements of placing products on the market in the fruit and vegetables sector are also more regulated. The wording of the rules for producer organisations is also modified in a way that norms the possibility of a solution to amend and supplement the list of products for which the producer organisation has been recognised and which has been shown in practice to be necessary. In the field of rules on alcoholic beverages, the coordination and implementation of the new Regulation of the European Commission, as set out in 2019, have been carried out. The procedure for the recognition of new markings in all its steps was also prescribed. For the purpose of weather matching with the provisions of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the exploitation and placing on the market of natural mineral waters in the part which prescribes the placing of natural spring waters on the market of the name ‘natural spring water’ used in the current law is changed to ‘original water’. In the area of food waste prevention, it is necessary to transpose the relevant provisions of the EU Waste Directive. The following definitions define the concept of "food waste", the objectives and mandatory measures of the plan to prevent and reduce food waste, as well as the follow-up of the implementation of these measures, establish a legal person to adopt a support programme for projects that contribute to both the prevention and reduction of food waste for the purpose of implementing a plan to prevent and reduce food waste, with a view to encouraging research and innovative solutions that contribute to the prevention and reduction of food waste. In order to improve the food donation system, a legal person shall be established to adopt a support programme for intermediaries in the food donation chain and/or the food bank. In the area of quality arrangements for agricultural and food products, the applicant for the protection of names shall clearly be defined in the national procedure, protection of the name of agricultural and food products. A legal basis shall also be established for the adoption of a solution for the abolition of transitional national protection and a procedure for amending the product specification for which the national quality system designation is recognised. In order to comply with the provisions of the relevant EU Regulation of 2017, the concept of a control body is replaced by the concept of a delegated body. In the field of organic production, the changes relate in particular to the exemption from the rules applicable to organic production. In the area of defining the information system of agriculture, the electronic database of data sources is normically redefined by the electronic agricultural card and provides a legal framework for its wider application, which will allow the digitisation of business processes. The normative interventions shall be governed by the agricultural and reporting management system in such a way as to specify in detail the process of data exchange from all databases, registers, registers and records in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture, as well as the Agency for the Payment of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. The possibility of accessing data from the data of the Ministry of Agriculture to third-party bodies in the form of private entities is expanded and data from the Register of Farmers is provided to the public. The register of orchards and olive groves, currently kept as unofficial records of the Agency for the Payment of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, is normally arranged. Amendments and additions to the current law in agriculture, the possibility of submitting a legal remedy against the solution of agricultural inspection and the corresponding further harmonisation of provisions relating to the part-time work and the area of supervision of competent inspections in the field of agriculture, as well as livestock farming and strong alcoholic beverages, food quality and food donation with the provisions of the State Inspectorate Act, i.e. the text of the proposal for a law which passed the first reading in HS, have been no-technically completed by the wording of the provisions of the final draft law. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 11 added to Art. 46 The Law stressed that the implementation of the programme for the promotion of Croatian agricultural food products, the minister prescribes rules to correctly show that the support programme for each sector will be developed by a special sublaw act. The section in which the counselling of farmers is arranged, Art. 45 of the final draft of the law, it is proposed to provide that the consultation of users in the field of public advisory activity carried out by the ministry includes, inter alia, education activities and providing and professional and technical assistance in relation to the use of an electronic agricultural card, or a shortened EPI. Art. 6 of the final draft of the law, which is amended. 15 basic rules, respecting the specificities of the area of payment of support, are further prescribed provisions on how to deliver the decision by electronic means through the Agronet system, as a time when such delivery is considered to be carried out. New Art. 46 The final draft of the law states that the party may file a complaint against the decision to return funds in a clear way to indicate that that legal remedy is to be decided by applying the rules of the administrative procedure. Finally, the proposed law will ensure proper harmonisation of national legislation with the acquis of the EU, as well as a substantive improvement of the text of the existing law as a whole, the introduction of new normative solutions and nomotechnic add-on and the corrections of certain non-compliant legal provisions. This improves and simplifies the current framework for the implementation of the objectives and measures of agricultural policy, and the bill ultimately allows for a clearer and more uniform treatment of competent authorities and a transparent way of handling and a better and more efficient system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47108	I thank the Secretary of State. Let's go to the replicas. Comrade Bull, here you go. You're first.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47109	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, you say that the support programmes in agriculture and mainly in the food industry, the processing of meat, processing, production of fruits and vegetables, processing and counting it too much, but the fact is, in particular, about organic production, domestic production, you know that we are not self-sufficient, however, these are the biggest problems in the Republic of Croatia. The more Croatia supported, the less we produced, the more the question arises, who were we giving these support to? We gave it to farmers or we gave it to those who had absolutely nothing to do with agriculture, your lobbyists or I don't know who, because simply, if we support through programmes, then the fact is that we should have increased production, and in Croatia it's the other way around. So can you explain this to the Croatian public my question?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47110	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47111	Thank you for asking, esteemed Representative Bulj. Therefore, the system of support in both pillars of the common agricultural policy, in the context of direct payments and rural development, also takes place in a transparent manner through the Agency for Payments in Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. Based on procedures, i.e. through the implementation of tenders, including criteria defined both in the first and second pillars of the common agricultural policy. By submitting a single application for support during the spring period, each farmer shall apply for direct payments. In the context of the Rural Development Competition, i.e. the IACS measure, each applicant is also required on a transparent and consistent basis, meaning a sustainable way of reporting for this type of support. All these support is in line with the common EU acquis that we have brought into line with in the Union accession.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47112	Thank you. My colleague Bulj asked for a break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47113	Thank you very much. I am looking for a break on behalf of the Most Club for 10 minutes because the secretary of state did not answer my question because the fact that Croatia was giving more and more support through the programmes in agriculture, and the less we produced, the more we imported and the less we exported. It is a key issue of the solution of Croatian agriculture. You come here with a law that speeds up or finds models to set up agricultural land and to be alleged, we have the meaning of 800,000 hectares of unprocessed agricultural land. In Dalmatia alone, 200 thousand hectares, we have unprocessed agricultural land that could feed 11 million people, only in Dalmatia. What are we doing? We forbid it, so we make it harder to produce our seed, this government. We, instead of promoting our domestic production, have a promotion of Croatian production, agriculture, food production, we do the opposite. Why the other way around? If in the Covid crisis, trade chains can work normally, and at the beginning of the market are our grandmothers, people who deal with agriculture, we can't not say that we don't encourage and promote domestic production and we know that better epidemiological measures are out there, in the markets. Which is why you did it in a crisis when we had to encourage domestic producers to produce, call for us not to be self-sufficient, I kept saying that and my club Mosta, we gave laws in the procedure of how to protect our domestic producer. If you'd come here and said, "Here, we're going to irrigate our fields, then I would have said all the honour and given the program, but you didn't, only 0.5% of the agricultural land in Croatia was irrigated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47114	Thank you very much. The station is approved, but we will proceed in accordance with the article. In 293 B., we're not leaving for 10 minutes. We're moving on. Now it's time for the replica of the esteemed colleague Martine Grman Kizivatt, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47115	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, can you tell us are true data that we could read yesterday in newspaper articles that Croatia will receive about 25m euros a year less, or in the next budget period 181m euros less? And can you tell me what the position of the Republic of Croatia is, given that at EU level, a heated debate is being held about limiting support to up to 100,000 euros or reducing more than 60 000 euros? Since the public does not even know about the reduction of support in the next budget period and since we do not know what the position of the Republic of Croatia is about limiting support, can you tell us anything about it?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47116	Dear Secretary of State Majdak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47117	Thank you, esteemed representative Grman Kisavit on the matter. So, we stress that from the beginning it has been related to the proposed agricultural budget, Croatia as well as other Member States have been committed to retaining the financing rate or envelope of funding at the level as it was in the current budget period and in both pillars that I mentioned earlier. Although the final outcome of the agricultural budget negotiations is not fully in line with the position that the Ministry of Agriculture has defended, we cannot be dissatisfied. The fact that Croatia will have more EU funds for agriculture than by 2020 in the financial period until 2027. So, according to the items, this is as follows, so for direct payments it will be available 2.6 billion euros and 374.8m euros annually at 1.57 billion euros in the last period. Also, for rural development an amount of 2.14 billion euros and 297.3m euros is foreseen more than in...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47118	Thank you very much. The Honorable representative Kisavit has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, in what way has the Rules of Procedure been injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47119	Thank you, Vice President. 238, so I asked the Secretary of State a specific question, I did not ask you to read me items rather than tell me if it is true that Croatia will receive less funds than in the last budget period and you did not answer my question about what Croatian position is related to limiting support or reducing more than 60 000.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47120	Okay, well, you know that it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it's a typical replica, so you get a warning. The next replica is respected MPs Romana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47121	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, Pozgaj Group is one of the major exporters of the Croatian wooden industry and employs 550 workers in 6 plants at 4 locations in Croatia and you, by your blackmailing and suspending the delivery of troops, have destroyed this group that has a tradition of business over 40 years and will be left without a job because of you 550 workers. Today it's the Burn Group, yesterday they were sugars, the day before yesterday it was Maggle. Well, how long has it been like that? Croatian forests cannot have a monopoly and decide which company can operate and which will not be able to operate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47122	So, before you answer, of course neither the logs nor the Croatian forest have anything to do with the law on amendments to the Agriculture Act. I beg you all, let's stick to the subject. Agriculture is a huge area, it really has a lot of opportunities to discuss it, but let's stick to this bill of law and agriculture. And now he'll answer to a respected secretary of state, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47123	Thank you. Thank you, dear representative Nikolic. So, as the Vice-President of the Parliament has said, today we are discussing the final proposal of the Agricultural Act, this question that you have asked, has been arranged by other legal or sublegal acts but also by competitions or agreements between the woodworking association and the Croatian Forests company at the level of the woodworking association in the HGK by letter of understanding, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47124	The next replica is the esteemed MP Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47125	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, related to the Article. 117. The Agriculture Act, which refers to the databases, I ask you to tell us the exact time limit if you can tell us, in which these bases will be updated and in which all accurate, accurate, updated data should be available, so which is closely linked to the current situation on the ground because what is the situation on the ground, so you have a number of situations that are actually arising from these unreachable data, so we can't carry out the choices in the chamber because we don't know the number of OPGs that are mandatory members, and we also don't know the amounts of support paid to large systems, but we have to learn from the media, we don't know the amounts and quantities of imported milk powdered milk that have been imported into Croatia or, for example, you have a large number of municipalities and commissioners who claim that we can't update data in agricultural land available programmes. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47126	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47127	Thank you, esteemed MP Vukovac on the matter. So, Art. 117. The Law on Agriculture or the Final Proposal of the Agricultural Law defines the registers, or registers and subregistries in accordance with this article, which is run by the Ministry of Agriculture, or by the Agency for Payment in Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. Regarding your request, related to Croatia's agricultural chamber, i.e. the coordination of the OPGs based on the registers carried out by the Payment Agency, is currently working on the same deadlines, so by the middle of this year, full harmonisation, in order to highlight what you have just pointed out, the HPK could conduct elections, and this requires a register of registered OPGs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47128	Dear representative Zmajić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47129	The Honorable Vice-President of HS, the Honorable Secretary of State, was provided through the Rural Development Programme in 2021 with more than 2.4 billion kuna of grants for our farmers and processors. In Slavonia, which is the heart of agriculture, we encourage the young population to stay in the country and deal with agriculture, so I am interested in how much money is provided in this year for young farmers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47130	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47131	Thank you, esteemed representative Ankica Zmajic. So, every year, the Ministry of Agriculture, together with the Payment Agency, implements the plan, namely, announces and announces the Competition Plan, your question regarding measure 6.1 and measure for young farmers, but also in the context of direct payments, all that is available to young farmers. So, for, soon, there will be a tendering plan for this measure, so far we have had a good impact, as well as at the level of all rural development measures, so this programme or fund is the most successful in all the funds, structural funds available to the Republic of Croatia. In the next programming period through the Strategic Plan, we will also enable young farmers, with some increased alocation, not something, but significantly, where young farmers will be able to provide 100% support of up to 100,000 euros for their investments.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47132	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative, Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47133	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State. The adoption of this law is also a prerequisite for the adoption of the Agriculture Strategy which is at its final stage, a public consultation has passed and we expect it to be discussed here in HS. This is not the only document on which the Ministry of Agriculture is working, since, in the framework of the reform of the common agricultural policy, we must also develop a National Strategic Plan by November. The EU Commission has made 13 recommendations for our National Strategic Plan, detected our good points, areas where we need to make improvements and found that 20% of Croatian economies own 75% of the land and receive 77% of the support. These support is actually a topic that we are very much discussing. The ministry announced a different, better, more transparent way of granting support to small economies and young farmers, so I'm curious, is this a new support system?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47134	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47135	Thank you, esteemed counsel Petyr. The question, yes, we are under way means e-Advocacy for the adoption of a new Strategy. In the second quarter and then will be referred to the Government, the Strategic Plan, as you have just said, is also in the design and related to small agricultural economies, teaching and young farmers, as I pointed out in the previous response, the tendency is also to be a priority of future measures, future meanings and objectives as part of both the agriculture strategies for the next 10-year period and for the Strategic Plan until 2027. We will also include other sensitive groups other than young people, except small ones, also, and women in rural areas based on certain criteria.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47136	The next replica of the respected representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47137	My dear secretary, you are probably aware that the problem with these incentives in agriculture is that they are inciting by the hectare. One of the big problems is karst pastures. You're aware of that we have people who got these pastures in large areas, several thousand acres of rent without having cattle. So they don't have cattle, their pastures are plagued by other people's cattle and by quotes, they've met the conditions to get a boost, they're raising huge money, they're tens of millions of kuna a year, which is wrong because those who need that money can't get it. Secondly, which is a big problem, it's a problem in dairy, I don't know if you're aware, but you said you have new information systems, but the milkers need to fill in more and more data in different information systems. Statistics according to the veterinary inspection, to provide information to the Agency for... and they're big problems for them, and they just don't have that time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47138	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47139	Thank you, esteemed representative Pavic, for asking the question. On the one hand, therefore, when you spoke about karst pastures, they are also involved, or users, of which they are included through their livestock fund, are involved in the implementation of the common agricultural policy. The common agricultural policy on support allows for the implementation and maintenance of other than agricultural production. As regards inspection supervision or supervision, control of the paying agency, for all applicants of a single application for support, if these are areas, the Agency shall verify on the one hand the conformity of individual areas and, on the other hand, the State Inspectorate shall verify all those items which are related to our law, but also to contractual obligations held by such users of karst pastures, related not only to the Law on Agriculture, the Law on Agricultural Land, but also to the Law on Forests.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47140	The next replica honours MP Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47141	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, here it is necessary once again to point out that the law has uniquely supported both the seed profession and the scientific community. Therefore, in the area of quality system arrangements for agricultural and food products, the applicant for the protection of the name is more clearly defined in the national protection procedure for the name of agricultural and food products, and in this way the legal basis for the adoption of a solution for the abolition of transitional national protection is established and the product specification procedure for which the national system mark has been recognised, and all for the sake of weather compliance with the EU provisions of 2017 where the concept of the control body is replaced by the concept of a delegated body and this is here for any praise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47142	Dear Secretary of State Majdak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47143	Thank you, Madam Dear Representative Baričević, for your comment. I would take advantage of the opportunity to stress that the Regulation on the national quality system of agricultural and food products and this law will allow for a clearer definition of the concept of proven quality as our national quality system for agricultural and food products, but to allow through this law and other types of protection, or a more transparent system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47144	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. The Honorable Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, Marijana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47145	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of HS. State secretaries, MPs, MPs. The HS Agriculture Committee discussed the meeting held on 27 April 2021 at its 23rd session. as home working body Final proposal of the Act amending and supplementing the Law on Agriculture, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President by the Act of 22 April 2021. You have a full report on the Parliament's pages, I'll look only at the most important points. A positive assessment of the proposal to abolish the obligation to repay the tightened interest in the case of an approved payment of the debt in the decision to recover the funds was also expressed in agreement with the applicant's decision to accept the proposals of the Committee on Agriculture relating to the regulation of a clearer distinction compared to the promotion programmes of Croatian agricultural and food products and to consult on the use of an electronic agricultural card. The position is also expressed that in the future it should work to strengthen Croatia's advisory service because currently one consultant covers 585 agricultural economies. Since there have been many issues on the board as well as in the first reading related to the system of donation of food donors and users in this regard, it is said that the system operates in part of the establishment of the IT platform. In the Republic of Croatia there are 135 intermediaries, the share of donated food is constantly growing, and the project of establishing a food bank has been reported in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan with a value of 32 million kuna. This project plans to set up four large regional centres where infrastructure facilities will be equipped to accept larger quantities of food and create better conditions for the work of intermediaries. The first results on the establishment of a food bank are expected in 2022. After the debate was held, the Committee decided to propose to HS the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Agriculture Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47146	Thank you very much. I see someone has done some damage to the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed representative Matic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47147	Thank you very much. I'm risking my warning, but all I have to do is take a hard time, man. In 238, there are no pages of the Committee on Agriculture Reports, I always read it to myself, and now it's gone, so here's the president then a little bit react to technical services to get a report from the board on time. No, I'm not. Thank you. And from the National Recovery and Resistance plan, it's a bunch of data, and this is very interesting to me, and I wrote it down, and here's the board's reports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47148	Thank you. It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I'm just wondering if the MPs got that report? ... It's not disillusioned to the MPs. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47149	Excuse me, Vice President. ... but the answer, but for the sake of truth was sent to you this morning so the Committee on Agriculture delivered it to the services, the services were delivered by email to everyone so that you have an email, and we have no effect on the posting on the pages, but as soon as it is delivered, it is placed on the pages, so you can read on your email. [[The speaker is not understood because of the announcement.]] And regarding the National Recovery Programme, there was a detailed debate and it planned to set up a food bank, which was discussed in detail on the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47150	Okay, I think we're clear. It wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but you won't get a warning of course because you reacted to something that obviously seemed wrong to you, but it's important to me that all the MPs got the report, so that thing works. Of course, it would be good for it to be on the Assembly page, but it is crucial that MPs have received a report in time. Thank you very much. Here you go, buddy Bull. What? You don't need anything, okay. Then we can open the debate, and the first will be the Club of Representatives of the Most and the time will be shared by respected representatives Bozo Petrov and Miro Bulj, first respected representative of Petrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47151	My colleagues and fellow MPs. Is it good to promote Croatian agricultural products? Of course. Is it good to protect the geographical origin of our products? Yes, it is. Is praise worth reducing food waste? Of course. Is it necessary to adopt a strategy for agriculture in the next ten years? Absolutely. So, on the theoretical level, anything that is announced by law could be good. And that's the problem, all the important things that I've stated aren't defined by law at all is that it's going to be done. The direction of introducing rules, the direction that groups of farmers will be encouraged, the criteria by which they will be encouraged, how this law will apply, and that will be brought far, far from this assembly. It will be passed through the regulations in some ministry far from the eyes of the public, farmers and experts. How, then, can we believe that these changes will benefit all farmers, not just some like them, or that they will benefit farmers at all? Maybe we should just take our word for it. And we apologize, but 20 years old. You run this sector, 20 years old. The trend is the decline of production in agriculture, we can't take your word for it. The other problem is that these changes could be good and you know it's condicional "might" maybe, but they don't have to. And why am I stressing this to you? Because there are a lot of regulations that you will bring through this law, after which, in your ministry, have also been passed many times in the history of your ministry and have proved to be very trendy, very inefficient, not good enough and not transparent enough. I'll take just one fresh example, a famous farming strategy in the next 10 years, and I see they've started quoting it. You know, she was in your public consultation the other day. Do you know how many people have reported to companies or legal entities? Fortenova, INA and three or four more opgs. And there's a story about a farming strategy for the next 10 years. The fact that this strategy is completely bureaucratic who has read it, that it cannot be seen through that strategy which way our agriculture will go, that's another thing. But that actually shows a continuation of the trend of work in our Ministry of Agriculture and what awaits further agriculture. According to this, it turns out that this law is also just a part of the pear marketing. Thus, this law announces what to do as in some cases. News articles. Then there's an exaggerated debate in HS that's going to be done, and then there's a topo of media inscriptions in the next 2-3 days and the end, and that's where it all stops you. And we've seen that phrase many times already. And that's the biggest criticism of this law, the laws so far and the work of the Ministry of Agriculture. I'll take an example. The agricultural land law was passed 3 years ago. Please tell me how many acres of 500,000 hectares of unallocated state and private agricultural land you've been using this law in the last 3 years. Split it up? Did you get over 5%, by any chance? You're not even 5%. I don't know if you're 2%. Next, the rural development program. You've been in it for years. Give me an example of where you spent your time. Give me an example of where you spent your irrigation. These are the laws you've passed. And I'm going to take you now an example of the Dubrovnik-Neretva County where our minister, where she was a mayor before she became a minister. State land has not been divided into farmers, which is why money from EU funds cannot be used. Only 10,000 hectares of agricultural land are used, 50,000 hectares are in the ice. The average size of the plot is 0.22 hectares, making up the smallest average plot in Croatia. It's the state of my county. And all ministers boast of one small California valley of Neretva, boasting of the Connavol field. Please tell me what you've done for these fields and for these people, did you maybe defend them from exposure? You're not. Did you maybe provide irrigation? You're not. Have you perhaps prepared them and carried out the commission? You're not. We have the least plots in Croatia. Have you perhaps made a strategy specifically for this area to be one of the main economic branches, not just tourism? You're not. And don't turn around and ask who didn't. You've run that county and that ministry for 20 years. And that's why we here can discuss this law, every single one of his cartoons, every single line. The law as the law that we are going to discuss today is not important because it does not stand for the important things that should be in the law. As I said, the laws don't apply, and the incentives you've given through certain regulations are not shared by everyone, they're shared by most similar ones, so there are no inspections that check the allocation of these incentives, or the consumption of these money, concrete solutions. I demand of you to proceed with the irrigation process of our fields. Why don't you want to use the money currently in the EU funds? Start implementing the laws and programs that you've brought yourself and carry out the commissions, release the pre-election obsessions. Allow us, but at a concrete level, to use modern technology directly to farmers and producers, so that within half a year we can see a positive change. Do not tell us “it will come, but in 5 years. ” No, it can come literally tomorrow. What you can and what you want to do can be done. That's what we expect of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47152	He will continue on behalf of the club, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47153	To change the laws on agriculture, not to say the current results of existing laws, to call for strategies to support certain programmes in agriculture, to encourage agriculture, all of this when we add up, the result is that Croatia has not processed, 800 000 hectares of unprocessed land has been unprocessed, only 0.5% of agricultural land of a total billion, of total land and at this point Croatia imports over 3 billion euros of annual food products, and this is constantly on the rise. The Covid crisis exposed all the bad policies, the disastrous policies of the Ministry of Agriculture, Croatian governments that did not work in the interests of the Republic of Croatia, Croatian villages and Croatian peasants. I'll give you an example. One example of the Chetino area, the Sinj field. Ministers, deputies, secretaries, Prime Minister, everyone who listens, mayors, how much is listed in the Sinj field? Six thousand acres, how much is watered up? 0, nothing. Every four years you promise to irrigate the Sinj field. The Cetina River flows through Sinjsko Polje, a clean, clear, pie that produces 40% of the Republic's hydropower. 40% of your hydropower, you haven't been able to irrigate the Sinj field. Many ministers came, from Cobankovic, I don't know which one, passed by, said this would be like being irrigated in Israel. You lied to the people, you lied to him again. We want to irrigate the Sinj field. That's what that people are right to do. That's what that people are right to do. Can you explain why the Sinj field is not irrigated, Secretary of State? You and your mayor who lies and deceives the public year after year. Why don't we have an irrigated field? 200 thousand acres is only in Dalmatia's agricultural land, 11 million people could feed, only Dalmatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47154	The next club of MPs will be the SDP on behalf of which Martina Grman Kizivat, the respected representative, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47155	I'd like to thank the vice president of HS, the distinguished secretary of state with the co-worker. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Today, we have a final proposal to amend and supplement the Agriculture Act. When I listen to the secretary of state, and even more, Minister Vukkovic, I have the impression that honey and milk flow in Croatia. Everything is great, Croatia's agriculture is ideal, we've actually found ourselves here today just to comply with some of the little things in the EU directive. And despite your satisfaction, with the increase in production, satisfactory statistics, the real truth is that the situation in Croatian agriculture is catastrophic. It is a constant decline in the number of agricultural producers, a constant drop in the number of milk suppliers we already have below 4000, and we have fewer and fewer products of our own to meet the needs of our population. Well, gentlemen, this is a real picture of Croatian agriculture. To improve the situation in agriculture, unfortunately, there is no situation with the reduction of funds that Croatian agriculture will receive from EU funds. We were able to read from media articles yesterday, where we learn from media articles that Croatia will receive 25m euros less per year for agriculture, i.e. for the next budget period 181m euros less. So are these the millions with whom the minister boasts at every debate, these are the mills that will stand out for Croatian agriculture? I'm asking you, Secretary of State, is that true in the papers? I didn't get the answer today. Is that true what we could read? We also have a constant debate here about how Croatia is a beautiful country, how we have huge resources, people who love and know how to work on agriculture, and that's what our history has shown. But it just doesn't work out, so it doesn't. Is that why it's the state's agricultural policy? Perhaps the situation with the crown and the earthquake should have been a good indicator and a good sign of how we should turn and treat domestic agriculture. Maybe it's those little and medium-sized O.P.G.s we need to turn to. Remember, when the first lockdown started, there was so much debate about not being self-sufficient with our own production and the food industry and that we must never find ourselves in a situation that we depend on import food. During the debate on the law in the first reading, we made a number of proposals that were not even included in the final text of the law, which is unfortunately the usual behavior by the ruling ones. Therefore, in the parliamentary procedure, we are sending amendments led by the basic objective of protecting and providing support to the remaining manufacturers and processors. We ask that strategic documents on the Agriculture Act be included and put in place a crisis plan as soon as possible, a document setting out the measures for assessing and managing the risks that can be put in place in crisis situations and establishing mechanisms for resolving the food crisis in the area of agriculture, fisheries and food safety. Given the situation caused by the coronaryvirus in which we have witnessed the closure of borders, the difficult and limited movement of the population and the transport of goods, as well as the difficulties in food supply, we suggest that a new strategic document be drawn up to define the handling of crisis situations at national level. If such a document had been prepared at the beginning of the pandemic, then when the earthquake occurred and the areas affected by the earthquake at the level of the Republic of Croatia, perhaps such discrepancies and chaos on the ground would have been avoided, only if you had brought a crisis document. Realising that digitalisation is also an important driver of development in all segments of the economy and society, and it seems to us that the minister rarely sets foot in those rural areas. The final bill suggests that farmers download all documents from the website of the paying agency. Well, gentlemen, if you didn't know, in certain parts of the Republic of Croatia, either there's no Internet or it's limited. That's the key. Either the Internet isn't there or he's limited. And since farmers will get the documents there, you obviously don't care at all. Please tell the minister to head to those environments, ask people what they think and what they need. What exactly do they need? And please don't prescribe provisions that will make life more difficult for these farmers and these difficult times. And now what do you say about donating food? Because I'm going to remind you one more time, and I have to stress this, this devastating fact that the Ministry of Agriculture missed the deadline for the transposition of the directive in the area of preventing waste from being produced from food, which was adopted on 5 July last year, even the European Commission's notice was received. The plan to prevent and reduce waste from food from the Republic of Croatia for a period of 4 years has been adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 2019 but answers questions as to how implementation is going and what activities have been realised so far, and which are yet to be achieved. On strategic planning in the final draft of the law, the ministry, along with the Agriculture Strategy, is said to prepare a strategy for the economy. When I mention this famous Agriculture Strategy, I will say once again, it is called the 2020-2020 Strategy, today is the end of April 2021. It's just finished e-consultation. Then I really don't, I don't have any way to explain that it can be called the 2020 strategy by 2030. I will personally submit the amendment that when this strategy comes to us, it is called Strategy 2022-2030, because what are we going to do with the two years that have passed? Who are we kidding here? We are interested in further information, and we are asking for information, at what stage is the creation of a bio-economy strategy? She's not even spoken of yet. Please, further information did the Ministry of Agriculture plan a strategic document in the area of forestry or would it be part of some other strategy? Namely, why am I saying that? At EU level, the Forest Strategy is being prepared as an integral part of the European Green Plan and is interested in what direction does the ministry operate in this area? I mention the European Green Plan in every debate, but the Ministry of Agriculture has not said a word about it. In addition, the public does not even know which strategic document will cover the fisheries sector. Unfortunately, the National Development Strategy and the National Recovery and Resistance Plan do not cover these segments at all. And finally, on behalf of the public, we're looking for information on which resources and financial resources will be prepared by the above-mentioned strategic document, so that we don't again have a situation where one page costs as one car? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47156	The next Club of Representatives will be the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Marijana Petir will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47157	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, representative and representative. The abundance of natural resources, the diversity of agri-climate conditions for agricultural production, the availability of funds to support agriculture, the connection with other sectors, the growth of organic agricultural production in the Republic of Croatia and membership in the Union, have been recognised as advantages in the SWOT analysis of Croatian agriculture in which the World Bank participated. The public consultation on the draft Agriculture Strategy of the Republic of Croatia ended a few days ago, now followed by a report on the consultation and development of the final proposal for a strategy. The basis for the adoption of the Croatian Agriculture Strategy is the proposal of the Agriculture Act that we are discussing today, which will create a legal framework for its adoption and also for the adoption of other strategic documents. This based agricultural law will also regulate the work of the Ministry of Agriculture, objectives and measures of agricultural policy, common organisation of the market, information and promotion, quality labels, consultation, education, administrative control, data collection and reporting, system and quality, support programmes, donation, food waste prevention and compliance with the Constitutional Court's decision. Between the first and second readings, the promoter accepted some of the proposals put forward in this assembly and at a meeting of the home Committee on Agriculture, which we consider positive. It is more clear that with the aim of promoting Croatian agricultural and food products in the dairy and meat sector, in the fruit and vegetable sector, honey, egg production, oil production and processing, olives, flour, sugar and the fisheries and aquaculture sector, sectoral programmes financed from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia will be implemented. It is about programmes that should help strengthen their visibility through the promotion of our agricultural and food products. We live in a time in which keypresses can be obtained and supplied by the requested products, in which, after searching for some search engines, in Internet search engines, in the coming hours and days, a large number of information is received about the various variations of the requested product. We therefore believe that, especially at a time of still present, the threat of covid-19 disease pandemics that physically and spatially restricts us in the usual activities of promoting agricultural products should be directed towards websites, social networks, various mobile applications and other mobile platforms whose information quickly and easily comes to end users. These programmes will for the first time be financed from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, but they should not forget here any funding of 183m euros co-financed by the European Commission for information and promotion of Union agricultural products within and outside the EU. The adoption of the proposal presented in the debate in the first reading of this bill is based on other tasks carried out by the Advisory Service including the implementation of education and the provision of professional and technical support related to the use of an electronic agricultural card. This amendment will therefore be helpful for older holders because of the average age structure of farmers in the Republic of Croatia. Speaking of this, we consider it important to direct the activities to be carried out in the framework of the Agriculture Development Strategy to accelerate the generational restoration of the Croatian village. This problem that Europe's agriculture of European villages is facing is becoming increasingly strong from rural to urban areas, the number of agricultural economies is decreasing, so we see the promotion of generation renewal of Croatian villages as crucial for further development of agriculture and the survival of rural areas. Our agriculture comes out of the first budget period financed by EU funds, we have had excellent, good and less good examples of use of funds. In some situations, the problem was in extreme users in some administrations, there was a rush somewhere, we were too slow, there were mistakes that we would believe in programming and implementing measures of a new budget period due to the experiences we have managed to avoid. Therefore, we also welcome the proposal from the Proposer who, when returning funds to the Agency for Payments in Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, is abolished by the obligation to repay tight interest in the text of the final draft law. The proposed provision for farmers will represent a significant financial discharge. Additional legal certainty for farmers is also ensured by the new pronunciation of Art. 5. In the 56th final proposal of the law, which states that the party may lodge an appeal against the decision to return the funds, thus clearly indicating that that legal remedy is to be decided by applying the rules of the administrative procedure. We hope that our farmers are just being taught the experiences they have been through and the knowledge they have gained from these experiences in the future will not face any problems related to the return of paid funds, but I also believe that the administration will recognise the opportunities in which farmers work and the needs they have in order to make the policy we create as effective as possible in the future. In addition to the above, and what can be read from this bill, we must not forget that agriculture as a few of which is closely linked to other economic branches, has a high degree of environmental, social and social impact. It is important to recall that this legislative proposal also creates a legal framework for the adoption of a bioeconomy strategy. At EU level, the new framework for the common agricultural policy, which will bring 5 billion euros to Croatia, is still in line, and after reaching agreement on this reform package, we are coming up with a national strategic plan. The European Commission's recommendations for the development of the plan highlight that Croatia has one of the EU's greatest potential for the development of bioeconomy, which is an opportunity for the green development of rural areas, as well as new economic opportunities for farmers. The planned activities covered by the Strategy for the Development of Croatian Agriculture, which also plans to invest in renewable energy sources aimed at small and young farmers. There are many challenges facing Croatian farmers and there is a time when serious agricultural production is no longer possible only as a separate whole. Agriculture is linked to the production and processing of food, bioeconomy, environmental protection, climate, employment, preservation of rural areas, protection of consumer rights and many other areas, therefore it is essential to evaluate all the contributions that agriculture makes and in design measures take all aspects of the life cycle of products from sustainable production to sustainable consumption, which can make a greater contribution to making food regulation and labelling of the traceability of agricultural products, as well as to the management of food waste, as well as promoting and informing about the benefits of donation and ultimately strengthening the donation system in which food will be provided and at the same time reduce financial and administrative pressure on donors. We often like to complicate things with unnecessary administrative procedures that ultimately do not affect the goal we want to achieve, so it is also essential to simplify the procedure and remove unnecessary obstacles in the implementation of this law. The space exists for us to take advantage of, and we view this legal proposal as identifying the problems facing Croatian agriculture and proposing solutions. Agriculture is a strategic economic branch and so we must treat it, so there will be opportunities to further strengthen this commitment through the adoption and implementation of the Croatian Agriculture Strategy. The vision of the strategy is aimed at producing higher quantities of high-quality food at competitive prices, sustainable management of natural resources and contributing to improving quality of life and increasing employment in rural areas, and all of this can be achieved only if we are all equally committed to achieving these goals for the benefit of Croatian agriculture and Croatian villages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47158	The next club of representatives will be the Homeland Movement on behalf of which the respected representative, Ruzica Vukovac, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47159	... Croatian Parliament... [[Last-on speaker]] Therefore, in order to achieve sustainable development of agriculture and its economic, environmental and social roles, the objectives of the agricultural policy in the Republic of Croatia must be, above all, to raise the level of competitiveness of the agricultural sector, to improve market mechanisms for the sale of agricultural food products, sustainable management of natural resources, environmentally acceptable agriculture, balanced spatial development of rural areas, while improving living in the local community including job creation and retention, as well as ensuring stable income for farmers. [[Last-on speaker]] It's all in our Agriculture Act, which is today's theme. In relation to that and respecting the reasons of the applicant for my objection to the provisions of the applicable Agricultural Act which remain not adequately in line with the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia of 20 October 2020, in particular Article 20 thereof. 9th Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing Article 44th and 11th and 12th of the current law, as well as Art. 104. The applicable Agriculture Act, since it does not guarantee the right to appeal against the solution of the Ministry of Agriculture. In its reply, the Proposer points out that the cited decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia exclusively refers to the Article. Paragraphs 15 and 4 shall apply. 68th century 2 of the applicable law, which is duly in line with the legal considerations set out in the cited decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. It is also said to be a member. 9th Amendment of the Law and Art. Article 104(5) guarantees the possibility of contesting the solution of the Ministry of Agriculture by filing an administrative action to the administrative dispute, which, according to the applicant, provides for administrative judicial oversight and control of acts of the body of the state authority. It is absolutely clear to all of us here that the above-mentioned decision is an exclusively regulated area of concrete articles, as well as the possibility of a constitutional court to deal with the subject of a request for an assessment of constitutionality and legality. However, respecting the fact that the real situation in our agriculture is still miles away from the state of agriculture in the countries in the environment, and especially when we talk about the above-listed objectives that should be the direction that the legislator himself should go, I was hoping that we could follow the suggestion to provide legal instruments that we meet all the addresses of the Agriculture Act. Since there is no hearing from the promoters, it seems that we have a re-constitution of the Constitutional Court on this matter, and this is the article in the agricultural law. I note that we've been waiting for this constitutional decision for the full five years. Imagine how many OPGs in the meantime gave up agriculture and left the Croatian village or even Croatia. If we're talking about milk production, 5. How long we've waited for this constitutional decision, it's actually been around 30,000 economies, or 30,000 of them shut down, and the question is how many people have had to leave our space because of it. I was hoping that the ruling would show a little more understanding of this constitutional problem of harmonisation of legislative regulations. I recall that the largest number of young people leaving Croatia clearly stress that their departure is the result of disappointment in the rule of law, lack of support, as well as a number of other injustices they have experienced in Croatia. I expected these amendments and additions to the Agriculture Act to allow for fairer application of the Agricultural Land Act. I note that, through the same approach, an appeal or access to the court and the applicants themselves to competitions available to agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia has been disabled. This approach has enabled a number of irregularities in the execution of competitions both later and in the use of the land itself. By disabling the right to access the court, we send a message to our farmers that they are of no importance to us. I will also add to this presentation data from the State Statistics Office which published data these days that in Croatia we have as many as 14% less cows in milk production comparing data with last year, so for 2020. A compared to 2019. The total number of male cows was reduced by 15.4% and from 130,000, respectively, we fell to 110,000, and that is all data from the State Statistics Office. How many more years do you think Croatians will know what fresh milk from Croatian farms is? According to these indicators, I'd say maybe another five or six years. The number of young cattle also decreased from 151,000 in 2019 to 146,000 last year. According to their data and the number of breeders, we're down 11.7%. As for herding, last year a slight increase of 0.6% compared to the year before was reported with a decrease in the number of male sheep by 11.2%. These are real indicators and also the devastating results of all policies headed towards the Croatian village. Another injustice is happening to the Croatian village, which is not recognised by the ruling. Therefore, since joining the EU, Croatian farmers have never received the full amount, or 100% of the planned support, but have been denied every year between 20% and 25% annually, and that part that goes naturally from the Croatian budget. Imagine how much we have damaged the Croatian village in this way especially if we are making a parallel comparison with, for example, Germany, Bavaria or Austria and the Austrian village. Their ministry does not rob them of money, but even provides hidden support for them, but another time. So, when I talk about the aids defined by the Agriculture Act, which is the subject of today's debate, I would only mention Article 23 which should be amended and it should actually read like this: the financial structure of the envelope under the measures of the direct payments programme and the additional national direct payments will be financed by the funds in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia in full. But no, the rulings don't want to change him, so we can't even react to him through the amendments. Given the objectives of agricultural policy from the beginning of my presentation, and this is among other things to improve the mechanisms for the sale of agricultural food products, I would like to add something else. So, the direct sale of agricultural products is on a constant rise, which is very good. In particular, this has been noticeable for the past few years, so an increasing number of agricultural producers are seeking to sell their products to the end consumer and this way of cooperation gives, of course, mutual satisfaction. In view of this, we consider very important this way of selling additional support and development. However, as early as 2020 the price of parcel delivery services has increased dramatically, and as a rule the price of delivery crosses the price of the product in the package even several times. In this context, I would therefore like to propose in part of the specific programmes and support that, if it can, of course, the ruling one will assess this complement with the support programme, the distribution of agricultural products to the CAPs. I hope that at least such minor advice and suggestions that would be very helpful to our agricultural producers will still come to an understanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47160	The next Club of Representatives will be that of HSS and HSU, and the Honorable Representative Zeljko Lenart will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47161	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, says that in Croatia, agriculture, politics and football are all understood and that is exactly what agriculture looks like to us. I don't know if we're all aware of the condition Croatian agriculture is in. Are we aware of how demoted and destroyed Croatian agriculture has been in the past 30 years? How far are we from the level of production 30 years ago? And do you know how much technology has changed in 30 years, how much science has gone forward in agricultural production, how much more repromaterials are available for production with new technologies, especially in vegetables, fruit growing, more intensive agricultural cultures. But despite it all, we've fallen into agricultural production. Dairy milking, porking, fruit growing, gardening. Do we ever ask what we're doing wrong? According to all of this, no one wonders because we're constantly producing some new laws that don't fix the situation in agriculture, but we still do them, we do them, we do them, and unfortunately there's no use for them. Not everything in this law is negative. I've never called a minister or a secretary of state lately, but I'm telling us because we're citizens of this country, this is our country, we're Croats who live here, and we all need to be important agricultural production, and we all need to feel guilty about why she's in such a bad state. I'm an agronomist, it hurts me personally, and I'm also the agricultural producer who felt it now, but here I have to do this job and I find it very difficult to listen to the discussions when there's no feeling what agricultural production is. Positive in this law is digitization, registers, registers. For what? So to see what the real picture of Croatia's agriculture is, because if we don't have the right insight, we don't know the right situation in agriculture, we can't even improve it. However, we must reduce the administration in that section that farmers must perform because look after the whole day when you work, you come home tired at night, the least you can think of is sitting behind a computer or taking a pen and going to write something. Because here's a saying that a farmer doesn't stop working when he's tired, but when he's done his job, and there's always a job on the property and it's hard to understand these people. I realize that it's hard to understand those of us who work on that earth because you have to invest money, you have to look at the sky, you have to look at a market that doesn't work, you have to look at the laws so you don't do something wrong not to get a ticket, 100 obstacles. Instead of doing production, offerings, improving your economy. Many colleagues can say I'm going to produce this because the incentive is so much in that production. I advise each and every one of them if you're going to produce to encourage you to give it up. If you're going to produce for production, if you want to have a nat average production, then the support comes in handy and in survival, but whoever goes to work for incentives, it's in the beginning, because that support or incentive, we can call it whatever we want, in the people call it an incentive is a thorn in the eye of many people who don't understand what's going on in agriculture. Farmers are often black sheep because of these incentives because they get some big money from which they probably buy cars or I don't know what. And we peasants obviously would have to ride on an old bike so if someone said, now that incentive was used. Don't you think a farmer has the right to drive in a modern car, in a modern tractor, go on a vacation, fly on a plane, go to Greece to sea or something? Of course he does because he's doing bloody work. The main thing that goes through this law or if you could say some kind of excuse, an electronic card. I don't see what she's doing right now because she's working out the same way, but maybe it'll help us see a better situation in agriculture, and she's welcome, but she needs to have a touch with people who aren't informational written and who will be very hard to use with that kind of ID and accept it as such. In the last term, we talked to the HSS Club here about the Agricultural Land Act that it wasn't good, that it wasn't going to work, we invested amendments, we were all being denied alive, we were shown as black sheep, and now what? After three years, it doesn't mean anything that I'm going to say we were right because it doesn't matter who's right here, it's important that farmers didn't get land, that they couldn't develop their family economies, that they didn't have long-term land contracts and that they didn't see the future because they didn't know how these land distributions would go. When something needs to be solved in party interests, then all the holes in the laws are found, then everyone is looking for legal holes to get rid of someone and set up. I didn't see us looking for holes in European directives to get as good and as much money as possible into the Republic of Croatia. No, we just copy European directives, nod our heads, I'm not gonna say any uglier words. There are so many hidden support, there are so many hidden opportunities that older EU members use, so they place goods with so many low prices on our market, but we don't. We don't have any covert support. We did not allow our farmers to have better income based on something that did not come from the EU. And we have to invest our national money in the development of agriculture, we can't just look at the European cash register that we're going to get from it. Agriculture is one of the most important branches in every developed country. We can say that Germany is one of the most developed countries, but it has almost the most developed agriculture. We have to strive for that. Often we don't have to be afraid of a rich peasant. I don't know when we're going to stop with this falling down, the collapse has started more intensely than the introduction of foreign malls, which normally placed goods from their home countries, and our agriculture has simply died afterwards. If we're going to look around ourselves a little bit what's going on, here yesterday I was talking about developments in Poland where over the past 10 years, 190.000 farms have been missing and their people, who are sitting in the EU, are talking about it, warning about it, the Poles have been fighting very hard during pre-accession times, during their entry, exploiting funds far, far better than we have. Is it signifying for all of us who later entered the EU that we are simply missing small farms, that we are missing OPGs, that people conclude that it is better to close it, to pick up suitcases and go somewhere in Germany, Ireland or where they think it is better. Slavonia is empty, empty and the rest of the parts, Banovina in Sisak-Moslavina County is in catastrophic condition, especially after this earthquake, but this earthquake has only exposed what has been so far and here, those who have insights into the lists that are listed there from agriculture, when they can see what is listed and what really has, I think they can get hair on their heads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47162	Thank you. Before we move on to individual debates, since it's almost three hours past, we're gonna take a little break to see the wind, and we're gonna meet again at 12, 35. MEETING IN 12.17 HOURS [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.43 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47164	Thank you very much. To talk about agriculture, i.e. about this law, I'm sorry that here, when we talk about agriculture, about the law, so you should be a resolute minister, I'm sorry that she didn't do well to come here all day and explain certain things that are mentioned here in the law. In my view, we must look first and foremost at the future, of course because we have the potential and resources that we can use with tourism, which we now see, in the Covid crisis is being asked, mainly because of the contradiction of certain measures, but agriculture would be a tribal to be the bearer of the whole story, meaning OPGs, our village and the peasant in which we should invest because the fact that 2/3 of Croatia is empty, and at this point we have no other way but to invest, promote and encourage. However, when we talk about the promotion that we have both programmes and then and then the promotion of Croatian production and producers of agricultural and food products, then we must say that it is unfortunate that we are making it more difficult for our farmer, in particular here, in terms of seeds for cultivation, which we will have to pay, we are making it difficult for the Croatian peasant because in us GMOs produce ropes, because you turn the sides, which are encouraged, which are treated, mainly through pork, i.e. treated, soy fed in other countries, pork that's much cheaper with glyphosate, I gave all these laws, just because of what you're proposing in law. So when I gave the law on the ban on GMOs, then, except for transfer purposes, then I talked more about this to encourage domestic production. Today, when we look at agriculture in this Covid crisis, we have vague, I mean, criteria. Covid crisis, if Covid is a crisis in the markets where domestic products are sold, then it must also be in trade chains. I remember when the crisis started and when it was lockdown and when everything was closed, trade chains, certain stores worked, but that's why the markets, which have better epidemiological conditions because they're open, they're out, they're not in the closed area, they're closed. But in this law, all these measures that you state, I would sign them. However, we are the only ones who overwrite those measures. That's why I asked the question, that we have to draw one line, why the more we give incentives, support, and the less and less we produce. That's the key question. The key question is why we don't have today, just 0.5% of the irrigated working surfaces. Out of a million and a half acres, so half is processed, half is not, just 0.5%, 0.5%. So we don't do our job if the village, we, I mean simply these laws that we make, are either inapplicable or these incentives, the support for promotions aren't effective and have no results. If we don't have a score, we'll have an empty village. I'll say it a hundred times, no strong village, no strong state. It's not mine, it's been repeated before me by a number of people, and it's going to be repeated, but at this point we don't see a way out. Why? There's hope to live. I mention my Sinj field a lot. Often. I don't understand why we don't have irrigation until today. And we have a close proximity to Split, we are in the middle of Dalmatia, my Sinj. These products would be, I think, from Makarska to Dubrovnik, Split, Sibenik in the markets, but there is no irrigation. Mostly in these karst areas, in Dalmatia we have 200 thousand hectares of unprocessed agricultural land. Only in Dalmatia. It's a huge potential we have to exploit. And when we talk, here's the dairy, we've had 64 thousand dairy producers before we enter the EU, the OPG, today it's fallen a long way, about 5, what is the number. So the question is, what is our direction of investment and how do we implement all the laws?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47165	We have one replica of Honorable Agent Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47166	Honorable Vice President, Your Honor, Your Honor. Enough food production is a question of one nation's sovereignty. We hear you're repeating the degraded agricultural production. Why, what's the answer? Is the state responsible? Do you know how much the Croatian state has invested in support of Croatian agriculture since 2006? Over 60 billion. Do you have an answer to where the funds went? Please comment, trade chains and agricultural production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47167	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47168	Thank you very much, this colleague of yours, you said exactly. So huge funds are given through support and incentives, and the key question is why we don't have results, but the results are getting worse, and I'm asking that a common question for both ministers and the secretary of state. Why do we not have the opportunity to sell local products at local level in local or local chains or shops, to have an obligation? Why wouldn't they bring it to me and thus protect my domestic production? Because obviously, the incentives are being given, of course, not in this case as it was in Mrs. Joseph Rimac, given in Grazac, where there was no incentive for cattle, for these agricultural areas at all, it would mean seeing exactly where these obstacles and anomalies of this system are, and we will immediately stop because we will have an empty village, we will not have a manufacturer at all. And that's the key question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47169	The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47170	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. State secretaries, deputies and representatives, increasing the value of Croatian agricultural production, reducing the value of imports of agricultural products, strengthening the position of farmers of the market and of making decisions and creating development policies, their economic, social and social integration into the life of the rural area in which the elements depend on the competitiveness of the total agricultural production of the Republic of Croatia and every Croatian agricultural producer. These amendments to the law provide a basis for the effective planning of future activities in Croatian agricultural production, and that we also need the European Commission's recommendations on which we had a political dialogue with the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament yesterday. The European Commission has identified 13 recommendations made for Croatia based on 9 objectives of the common agricultural policy, commitments from the European Green Plan and from field to table strategies. These recommendations are not legally binding but should foster further transformations in the agricultural sector based on 3 objectives for Croatia. In the process of consolidation of the agricultural sector, attention should be paid to strengthening the competitiveness of small and young agricultural holdings through financial instruments, digitalisation and modernisation of production, vertical integration of manufacturers, product production with added value, promotion of short food supply chains and consumer protection. The objectives of the common agricultural policy in the segment of environmental protection in Croatia should be directed towards strengthening the protection of natural resources, taking into account the dangers of soil erosion especially present in Slavonia and soil pollution caused by water pressure. Due to the unfavourable state of conservation of grass habitats, Croatia should adopt relevant plans and work to accelerate the adaptation of agriculture to adverse climate change, especially droughts, invest in reducing air pollution and water protection. The positive commission assessed the development of organic production in the Republic of Croatia, indicating the need to create a market for organic products. Croatia also has one of the greatest potentials for the development of bioeconomy in the Union and should work in this area to create measures to encourage it. As regards the social economic objectives of the common agricultural policy, it has been warned that the differences in GDP in rural and urban areas, the differences that exist in the infrastructure itself, as well as the high risk of the rural population being exposed to poverty. An additional challenge is generational renewal, but also strengthening the knowledge exchange system, digitisation, innovation in agriculture. The Commission's analysis shows in fact the potential that Croatia has in certain segments such as the richest biodiversity in Europe, the greatest potential for the development of bioeconomy, the growth of areas under ecological production, the trend in the reduction of pesticide-related risks and antimicrobials, the good general state and the protection of natural resources in the Republic of Croatia. In fact, such indicators give us some optimism that we will also be able to respond to the challenges that the Green Plan and the common agricultural policy bring forward, particularly in that context of environmental climate measures and demands, which is a particular problem for many Member States. However, on the other hand, there are also certain problems with infrastructure in rural areas, with demographics, lack of generation renewal, a negative trade balance, the fact that 20% of users receive 77% of incentives and own 75% of land, insufficient cooperation, lack of public digital service and broadband. And it all shows us that there's a lot of work ahead of us. In this context, with a view to strengthening rural areas, it is necessary to strengthen their infrastructure in particular, at the same time to plan those measures and policies that enable us to have EU funds. That is why I believe that, based on previous experiences, we will smartly program the future budget period to contribute to the growth and competitiveness of Croatian agriculture with targeted and real measures and above all to the preservation of Croatian villages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47171	We've got more replicas on your exhibit. He's the first respected representative of the District, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47172	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, we are today discussing the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agriculture. Since I come from an agricultural area where people are here thank God they are still engaged in agriculture and live on it, just as we are the head of the municipality, we are putting a lot of effort and resources into encouraging young farmers to stay in their own, in their environments and to live on agriculture. Well, as one such measure, I would like to point out the establishment of a agricultural cooperative for our vegetables and fruit trees which we did four years ago, where they join together, and we as a municipality subsidize them through re-promatter and they are organized into that cooperative so that they can mate more easily and more competitively on the market. We are also in the phase of making project documentation with full support from the Ministry of Agriculture and Zagreb County. It's a project to build a regional livestock centre in our municipality.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47173	Thank you. Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47174	Thank you very much, Commissioner. I congratulate you on these activities that you are carrying out because I think the establishment of a regional livestock centre is something that is absolutely necessary because of what we need and education, but also the support of the science sector to improve the section of livestock farming. And what you recognized four years ago. that it is important to encourage the association of farmers is something that should be increasingly recognised in other environments as it also enables farmers to have a better negotiating position, but also greater competitiveness of their products on the market. If we want people to stay alive in rural areas then just such measures that are not financially demanding, but are well chosen, we can help and develop agriculture and preserve Croatian villages.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47175	The next replica of the esteemed MP, Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47176	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues Petir, you mentioned in your presentation the European Green Plan and a series of things and you mentioned something that seems to me that is not enough in our knowledge area, or perhaps it is a problem, which is the influence of pesticides that go through the waters, which has to do with our agriculture. What am I saying that for? So, where you have currents that are related to neighbouring countries that are members of the EU have about the same directives as we do, but you know as well as I do that we also have around countries that are not members of the EU where some other standards apply, and of course it goes very far through the water, and we have these cross-border influences through environmental impact assessment procedures where you have to evaluate. But I think that the pesticide theme is extremely small and that this is one of the additional problems that agriculture will see in the future, the impact of pesticides on our agriculture, but also some other countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47177	Thank you. Dear Representative Petyr, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47178	Thank you very much, Representative Dark-Taritant, for this replica. This is exactly when we spoke to representatives of the European Commission in that segment yesterday, Croatia was praised for reducing the risk of pesticides and antimicrobials in agriculture unlike some other Member States where the problem is extremely pronounced. But I agree with you that we need to continue on this path and that we need to take care of what comes to us by cross-border pollution, and in this segment, I think we have tools in our hands, given that the countries in our environment strive to become Member States and in that segment must meet certain standards and conditions within the framework of negotiations with the EU. This is not the only open question that we have when we talk about cross-border influence, especially in the environmental protection segment because we know that along our border there is nothing hydropower plant, thermal power plants and that standards are not exactly respected, so that is the subject of debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47179	Thank you. The next replicas of the respected representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47180	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, we agree that organic production is not yet sufficiently represented either in our country or in other countries, it has its potential, it certainly aims to protect both soil and water, food is healthier, there is demand for it, but the production of this food is still more expensive than the traditional or standard way, and food itself is more expensive. But I'm saying there are potentials. In this law there are some pages dedicated to organic production, but there are plenty of dry laws, obligations of subjects in organic production, register of subjects etc.. I've been looking at a little bit of ways to get a certificate for organic production. I have the impression that this is still quite a complicated way and that our small and medium-sized farmers may not yet be sufficiently educated on how to focus on organic production. What else does the state plan to do to increase organic production in Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47181	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47182	Thank you very much. Representative Maric, therefore in the political dialogue we had with the European Commission, the European Commission praised Croatia's progress in increasing areas under organic production. And they also said that it is important to work parallelly on ensuring the market for these products. We are now in the phase of developing an action plan for organic production that should provide answers to these questions as well as those which you have asked. According to some of the announcements we received from the Agriculture Minister's board, that should be over this year. In the meantime, it may be interesting to look at the plan of Zagreb County, which has been focused on working hard during the next 10-year period and has prescribed measures to make the entire county actually a county with organic production.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47183	The next replica of the esteemed counsel of Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47184	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your colleagues Petir, you are well aware of the European institutions and EU policies, and in this context you mentioned in your presentation the link between rural development and digitalisation. We have, as you know, a European Desi index that measures the degree of digitisation. Croatia has been in the last 5 years. It's advanced, it used to be in 24th place, today it's at 20th, but there's more space, especially in rural areas. So my question, in what sense do you see, especially now that this new recovery plan also puts an emphasis on digitization, that this is exactly what it spills on rural development?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47185	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47186	Thank you very much, Mr. Stier. You're absolutely right, digitization is one point at which a step forward, but a lot of room for progress needs to be filled in by our activities. In that sense, certain activities are planned through this law. The National Recovery Plan provides financial resources, and a special emphasis should indeed be placed on rural areas. It is visible that it may even be possible to do this faster than previously thought, and I am telling you from an example of an earthquake hit Banovina where to start working because the institutions can't work because their offices and buildings have been torn down, they had to go towards some new solutions and in this sense set several transmitters at key points in order to secure the Internet for filling out these renovation applications, but it will benefit farmers in filling applications for agricultural needs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47187	Thank you. There is also a respected representative of Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47188	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues. Through your actions and your work, you've devoted yourself greatly to agriculture. The pandemic has raised awareness of the importance of agricultural production, Croatians want to buy domestic products, but of course we must also produce them in sufficient quantity. Virtual markets, green markets were a clear indication that we love and that we are prone to homework. This government has classified agriculture as its strategic priority in the development strategy as clear to how important agriculture is. Do you think that through the National Development Strategy, the National Recovery Plan, the enlargement and strengthening of measures to finance small and medium-sized producers see a significant recovery of agricultural production?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47189	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47190	Thank you very much, counsel Maximchuk. It is therefore true that agriculture was assessed as strategic economic activity, in order not only to remain on the words, it was also necessary to install it in strategic documents and the work programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but also in the national strategy and recovery plan, it is evident that here we closed last week a cycle of public consultation on the Agriculture Strategy, which should be in front of us in HS for discussion where we are about to achieve an increase in domestic production and competitiveness of domestic producers. In this sense, it is also proposed to remove some of the administrative barriers that were an obstacle through this Agriculture Act, and yesterday we discussed the Law on unfair commercial practice where they are thus trying to remove those malformations that have been observed on the market, which prevents actually a better placement of domestic products.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47191	Thank you very much. Now we're going to stop at this point a little bit because it's one hour and we're going to go to the point of view. We will now return to our point that we have discussed and will speak to distinguished representative Romana Nikolic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47193	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. Agriculture is the oldest activity and very important economic activity in the Republic of Croatia. The Agriculture Act is a fundamental law that sets out primarily the objectives and measures of agricultural policy. This final proposal for the Agriculture Act will bring the law on EU legal acts, implement the Constitutional Court decision, provide a legal framework for the adoption of the Agriculture Strategy as an act of the Strategic Planning of the area of agriculture and rural development. However, one of the most important reasons for the adoption of this law is the need to comply with the State Inspectorate Act. We remind you that the State Inspectorate Act was published in the National Journal on 20 December 2018, and the State Inspectorate started on 1.4.2019. It says that for nearly 2 years, the Agriculture Act did not comply with the State Inspectorate Act, which is also the case with a number of other laws in the area of agriculture. During the adoption of the State Inspectorate Act, it was necessary to prepare in a package of amendments and all other laws in the area of agriculture because, above all, legal uncertainty is being created, and the system itself is setting up for years without a plan and a clear vision. In addition, when it comes to this Ministry, we would like to inform the employees who took back from the advisory service and the Croatian Agricultural Agency, following the government's decision to abolish these institutions, concluded new labour contracts with a delay of over a year. Furthermore, the European Green Plan was adopted in December 2019 with the main objective of making Europe the first climate neutral continent by 2050, and the central part of the Green Plan is a strategy from field to table, conservation of biodiversity, sustainable agriculture and rural areas and a number of other policies. Why has the European Green Plan been adopted? Well, he brought it in so that small and medium-sized farms could make the most of it, but despite being adopted a year and a half ago, we're not talking about him or anything about it. And today, instead of discussing a new law that includes the EPP guidelines and strategies from field to table, we pass a law that corrects mistakes caused by delays, negligence, irresponsibility or ignorance. We know the total value of the Recovery and Resistance Plan for the Republic of Croatia amounting to 6.3 billion euros in grants. The only thing that interests us is that we are asking for information from the competent ministry as much as these funds are intended for agriculture, fisheries and rural development, i.e. private investments in these sectors, the exact amount. We demand that the Ministry of Agriculture prepare as soon as possible a plan to develop strategic documents and direct payment models in the Republic of Croatia so that farmers and entrepreneurs in this sector know when the completion of the drafts of these documents including examples are expected to be calculated, the indicative date of the start of the public debate which they and the public may participate. I appeal once again to the strategies of our agricultural policy to trade and start making decisions that will benefit our farmers and ultimately all of Croatia. If they don't do it soon, this little farmer is going to fail, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47194	We have one replica, the esteemed representative of the Grman Kivisat, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47195	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your colleagues Nikolic, in your replica, referred to sugars, to Meggle, to the woodworking industry, and then here we had the opportunity to hear that it did not fall under this law, that it probably does not belong to the Ministry of Agriculture. That's what these ruling men said. So if it doesn't belong to that resort, can you please tell me where it might go, which ministry, perhaps, tourism? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47196	Dear Representative Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47197	Thank you very much, Mr. Kivivat.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47198	Can I give you my word?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47199	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47200	Can I give you my word to answer? Dear Representative Nikolic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47201	Thank you, Vice President. Well, that's very interesting. I really don't know if it really belongs to tourism or construction. But you know that famous song from Jelena Rozga, it's none of my business, obviously none of their business either.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47202	The next debate will be respected MPs Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47203	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with fellow Members, colleagues and colleagues, here we are relatively quick to receive a second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Agriculture Act. When it comes to agriculture, this law, amendments and additions would certainly cause much more debate than in this pre-election or election period is related to local elections, so people are more focused on the story, and there are relatively little of us in the assembly. But when it comes to agriculture, it often comes to me, so we can change laws, we can supplement them, we can have ideal laws of agriculture without people being gone. So often I think of that saying that the road will wish for Turks, but the Turks will no longer be. So we really need to keep in mind when we talk about this problem to somehow make life easier and make it possible for small farmers, the OPGs, all those in that one, one chain and who should somehow really be and make sure they have support. Of course, when it comes to agriculture, we must look at it in the context of the green plan and in the context of climate change. Climate change is a fact. We're all on portals, and I read on one portal today something that really surprised me so little about how far the country's axis has moved in the midst of changes that are climate change. So experts write about it, they say, that the most sensitive area when it comes to rising sea levels is the Neretva River. There'll be another farm and something else there in the future. It's just kind of like they go to one of the Turkish speeches, and the other people speak Chinese and they don't understand each other at all, so we have to take care of all that. When? Well, now. We've learned every time we use a cup of water to solve the fire when the fire starts, and what they warn you is going to be a fire, we won't mind. Likewise in the development strategies that will be declared to be based on some kind of green policies, we're talking about recognised challenges, we're talking about models and all together, so it's all written, we're talking about it, but when we come into reality, then that reality is a little bit, a little bit different. So all the problems we have are recognized. I would have warned two more things from this law. One thing, so the topic of digitization. My people don't have any regulations in which we don't introduce any new, new way, and all that, under the assurance of transparency of public money control. I'm not going to mention a platform that is all the time in public space related to health care, but I see a series of new and platforms and digitization of different procedures. And it's all okay. That's all for a new generation, for a new story. Let's explain to me how now someone who deals with agriculture will have time to use it all together. I'm talking about people who are at the end of their lives and working lives, we have all the population that is older and older. I see it from my mom when she comes to sea and who has to sign up through the platform to use the cottage. Well, there's no way she's gonna do it, she's just gonna walk away and do it. So, on the one hand we have different, we take care of digitisation and really in one part it works great, we have new databases, registers, registers here, of course we have companies doing this, and we are dealing with it together, and we are not taking care of one directive that Croatia of course accepted when it became a member of the EU that speaks INSPIRE directive and that it says that all data should be in one place, that this data is managed by the State Geodetic Authority and when you get there you see that there is absolutely nothing. And there is, as I have already used on roadsides and on Turks, so among other things here is the topic of waste that comes from food. We, annually, produce 400,000 tons of food waste, or 97 kg per capita per year, have food waste, and when you look at how many of ours The old population is on the verge of poverty. There's definitely something wrong in this country. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47204	Thank you. We have a replica of the respected representative Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47205	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Mrak-Taritash, I would like to refer to your debate and refer to statements that our ministry takes care of its producers. They're full of mouths saving the O.P.G.s, helping and supporting. They're constantly talking about it, but in practice it's not realising how much it should be. Small OPGs cannot apply to funds as large, large ones need millions, and how small they could maintain their production and existence with these millions to divide them evenly. And then young people would stay even in the country, this is how young people move out. But they don't think so, everything's wonderful and wonderful in our Slavonia, they do factories, they encourage production, villages crowded, and whatever you turn around, everything closes down, everything falls apart, and young people move out.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47206	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47207	Thank you very much. Comrade Nikolic, it's, I don't even know which joke to use you have, whether you believe in someone's words or your eyes or what it is, please don't save me anymore, so try not to save me anymore, so let me do what it's like to end up like that. So there's not a single document that we're not going to refer to and say that agriculture is important to us. I personally think it's important to us. This crown has shown this importance to agriculture. There's not a single document where we don't point out the importance of these little ones and then we get to the middle ones, and the big ones will take care of themselves anyway, and then we come to reality and we see that it doesn't really work so well, that in reality some unnatural ideas are imposed, that in reality some unnatural, unnatural associations and everything else are imposed. We write laws for people, we write laws for someone who works for them, so let's at least ask them what they think about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47208	Thank you. The Republic has a respected representative, Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47209	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, in your presentation, of course, you have looked back on both green policies and waste management issues, and I think that as Croatia, we still have a lot of work to do. I also think that each of us is actually undereducated and about how to take good care of waste. And another item, and that's only once, in one place mentioned, it's a food donation. So this country has to have a slightly more active role to play to educate people as much as possible. So, I have now found this "Food Donation Guide" that was published in 2019 and somehow I haven't come across it before. So people who are the average residents probably have no idea. It means we who are following something and we know something, but I think that country should work even more on education. Well, even now that we've had a problem with these food donations, earthquakes, etc., the question is that it's not some food and over-fed, and it hasn't been treated like this guide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47210	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47211	Thank you very much. So, at the end of 2018, It started making a study on the conductability of the food bank in the Republic of Croatia, which took place in the first quarter of 2019. should offer the best model of the food donation system applicable to the Republic of Croatia. So, we're in April 2021. I absolutely understand that we lived in time and that we still live in the Corona or covida era. But when something like that happens to you, you need to use it for other things. She did that, and besides, I got, or I found out that this feasibility study was done by a company in Rijeka if I wasn't wrong, and I should have found the best model of how to go to the food bank and that we have it, we still don't have it. But then and when you have it you have to educate yourself and you have to put it on all the bells that people who want to participate have the possibility to participate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47212	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative, Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47213	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Mrak-Taritash, you were talking about the problem of throwing food and producing food waste. We know that enough of the hungry does not believe that the matter of hunger is not really a food issue but a matter of policy how things will be settled, whether they will be distributed evenly and made available to everyone. In this respect, it is certain that additional efforts should always be made. I think it's a good thing that an information platform has been established that will be the establishment of a food bank in 2022. and that, right through the National Recovery and Resistance Programme, 32 million kunas were provided for the establishment of a 4 larger collection and distribution centre. But you mentioned one devastating fact, which is that each person throws 80 kilos of food a year, so the question is, what can each of us do to reduce personal food waste?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47214	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47215	Thank you very much. So, I'm here, I'm one of those nerds, so get ready and collect the data, is it that simple and get ready for discussion? So the problem of throwing food is with two aspects, one is economical, therefore economic damage which is, and the other aspect is related to the environment and should be seen. So, he says, according to current world-wide knowledge, 1.3 billion tons of food a year, that this is a financial loss of $680 billion in developed countries and 310 billion in developing countries, respectively. So it's a global world problem. One of the ways we can get rid of this in our little country is to have a food bank, so that's one way. Another way to really have that ecological consciousness at a time when and what we throw and how we throw and throw into those in a certain way, but that and education is extremely important.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47216	Thank you very much. The next debate will be a respected representative of Villa Matula, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47217	I would like to thank the Vice President, the Secretary of State with an associate, a colleague and a colleague. This Final Proposal of the Agricultural Act gave colleagues and colleagues the opportunity to assess the situation especially those colleagues who really live in agriculture, who are related to agriculture. I said that myself when I was talking about agriculture, I came from Prigorje, from the village, and I have a relationship with the village. I also know something about the situation in Gorski Kotar and I know something and I think I'm talking about it and I come to Slavonia and I know something about it. Here, colleagues and colleagues mentioned that the situation in agriculture was very bad, a colleague said it was also a catastrophic situation. Now art. The 5th of this bill is about the acts of strategic planning and this famous strategy since 2020 – 2030. Although we're already in '21. in which the experts of the World Bank took it and they wrote it together with our representatives of the agricultural and food sector as they say on the Ministry's pages and a common vision has been defined which, you now hear this very generic, will produce a higher amount of nutritious and high-quality food at competitive prices. Of course, who could be against it? However, the matter is so simple that it reminds me of that Hasek Party of moderate progress within the borders of the law or beer party the famous Czech beer party that was in their first assembly of the first parliament in democracy, and it was talking about only two parameters, which is a better quality beer for as low a price as possible and they claimed that everything else in the country will in itself be resolved because reasonable people on beer will agree on all other things. Of course there's that famous Czech humor. However, the fact is that everything here is also talked about the issues of these food donation measures so that it wouldn't all turn out from what I'm saying disastrously now, I want to say that apart from the large number of young people leaving Croatia we have indicators about it, but I personally know a lot of people, and I've seen many times on television now and on TV lately, a lot of young people, young couples who leave Zagreb, I personally know other bigger cities and go to live in the country with my children to produce quality food for them. Some of it, then, if we're going to do these huge incentives that are coming, and we're not going to spill it on just to encourage people who are living off the incentives that are de facto doing nothing, if we're going to give them these young people, then it makes sense. I'm saying, I know something about the Gorski Kotar, which is systematically neglected, systematically the same because of the composition of the population, although there was no rebellion there, everything that has now been discovered by the earthquake in Banja that is systematically neglected Banija, believe me, the same thing I can witness in the Gorski Kotar. However, people come back, come or come people who have never been and decide to risk everything. And now in the end I just want to end up with proof that there are opportunities, and it seems to me that this law is not enough, it's all so vague, specialized trade in Zagreb, but also in other major cities that sell very high-quality OPG products. I heard that they were complaining now and those eggs, milk and all of the methomats that were being put up, so it was coming into trouble now, but these shops show that there is a great interest in high-quality products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47218	Thank you. We've got one replica, a respected representative of Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47219	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Matul, I think the 2017 EU Court of Auditors' thematic report It estimated that, in fact, large investments that are given from the EU level precisely for the generation reconstruction of the village did not give young farmers the desired results, which means that other obstacles need to be removed in order to win the situation. By mentioning young people who may be from good jobs and from professions that are relatively well paid, they still decide to replace their life in the city with life in the country is something that is a good example and only shows that investment, not only in agriculture but also in rural development, makes sense because those young people want to move out of the city to the village must still have basic living conditions and social social communal infrastructure that will be appropriate. In that sense, what you think needs to be done first to improve such trends? [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47220	Thank you. Honorable representative of Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47221	I will certainly talk about this in this next example about beekeepers, about this digital technology, because the truth is that a lot of IT people decide to go away because they can do their job from anywhere, and it's very important to them and it's worth it to give children the quality food they grow themselves, and they're sure of what they put in that food. I think it is primarily important to encourage these young people who really work and want to produce them help, and what the mayors, the mayors, are willing to do, which is to do some projects around cities or in smaller places, and I understand that they want to do it, but to begin with, it certainly needs to help these young people to produce really good quality food.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47222	The next debate will be the respected representative of Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47223	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, I'm going to get a little bit attached and on my colleague Matul and I love it when the talking MPs have that one optimistic accent. My colleague Matula is talking about people coming into rural areas, and I have examples like that, and I think it's good for a general climate. We'll never get people into rural areas unless we give them a good chance and make good marketing out of it. Who's coming? No one is likely to come if we are committed to pessimism, some unattainable goals and topics, it will be nothing. - Mrs. Crescent. Petir spoke of something that we heard yesterday from a man who knows something about European agriculture, we are part of this European agriculture, Mr Peelka, who has warned us through the videolink about some things, said about where Croatian agriculture is at this point and what are the positive sides of Croatian agriculture that we have and where we have to work. The common agricultural policy and the Green Plan are something we need to focus on and something that must be the goal of this government when it comes to raising agricultural production. The zraz, i.e. the self that rules between rural environments and what the city of Zagreb is, is simply something that is currently the biggest stumbling block. Until that GDP jumps into the areas from which we come, which is mostly, here, the east of Croatia, Zagora, Lika, we will have this problem that we simply won't be able to find a solution. Therefore, the focus of the solution must be right there. How to keep these young people, or agricultural producers in those environments. What he said and what I think is very interesting is the diversity of agricultural products with high added value. That's it. To produce relatively little on a small hectare, and to produce very, very expensive products, it is something that can improve Croatian agriculture. There was talk here about irrigation systems. It is not true that 0.5% of the area in the Republic of Croatia is under irrigation, 2.5% is and that is little, it is nothing. But here we have another problem that the Croatian Government, Croatian Waters, particularly invest in irrigation systems, and also in the county, but simply the manufacturers are not still opting for this type of production because it is very difficult, you need a lot of labour, and at this point there is no work. Innovation is something we must do, which we must be part of and what we must work on. I'll mention one man who's here. He's from Chakovec. The company is called NovaTech, it has built a mobile irrigation device for solar energy and is the first in a world that is such a product, which will be capable of mobile, meaning from parcel to plot drive and will be able to irrigate between 5, 10, 15 and 20 hectares, depending on the size of the pump and the solar plant itself. But what's the problem. We want a lot of agricultural production. Now, that's the other way around in one piece, which means a lot of fertilizer, a lot of pesticides and a lot of soil pollution. It's something we should be careful about. Is 11 tons per hectare of grain or 8.5 tons per hectare enough or are we going to go towards producing 15. If we want 15, then that means something else entirely. But what matters is what Mr. Pielke once again warned about, and the secretary of state also said something about it, these are climate change. Climate change is something that threatens, especially the east of Croatia, and the east of Croatia is the most potent agricultural part of the Republic of Croatia. The soil erosion is something that can cause serious problems in agricultural production, therefore, here, and the minister pointed out yesterday on the Committee on Agriculture, that we must work intensively on this protection and that we must have a clear plan and aim of how we will achieve it. What's certainly a 21st century trend, that's digitization. Without a fast internet, without digitising that rural part of Croatia, we will not be able to move forward. Young farmers just won't get that chance they can, and that's exactly what I'm going to end up with Will saying a little bit, It is the role of local leaders to ensure the conditions and preconditions of what I was talking about. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47224	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. The first is the respected MP Baradic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47225	I thank the vice president of HS. Dear colleague Ivanovic. We know that in agriculture the negative effects of climate change in which you have now and touched can cause loss of biodiversity, lower yields, soil erosion and greater occurrence of pests and diseases. So my question is how much will climate trouble affect the development of agriculture in the area from which you come, or in the east of the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47226	Dear Mr. Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47227	Thank you very much. It will probably affect a lot if we do not prepare ourselves, if we are not active creators of the time that awaits us, we must never underestimate nature, nature has its own laws, we must never take it more than it can give us and I think that the Ministry of Agriculture has certainly a strategy that we want to implement when we make this Strategy of Croatian Agriculture for the next 10 years. It will certainly be one of the priorities and I think of it myself because we have over 50 years and I remember well what our fields looked like 50 years ago, and what they look like now. When there was water in every channel that passed by the field and there was water in every stream, you can now count on the fingers of one hand where there is more of those waters. Therefore, the climate is changing significantly and we need to keep an eye on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47228	The Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47229	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, in one opening work, the first part of the exhibition, you mentioned this relationship between Zagreb and other parts of the Republic of Croatia. So until recently we talked about sustainable development, now we're talking about climate change, how time is going, so we're talking about other things. Sustainable development means that you in all parts of the country have about the same opportunities for work, for education and everything else. Croatia has made one step and we are well connected, I am talking about roads and connections, we can talk about railways differently. But children have the same opportunities in the east of Croatia, as in Zagreb, only in a cell phone where they have the same cell phone. They don't have all the other stuff. So, what fellow Matula was saying are individual cases where someone wants to give their child a chance to grow up in other conditions but we have to start dealing with some other, that it's not just an individual case It's really young people. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] and deal with food production. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47230	Dear Representative Ivanovic, please stick to the time. Here you are, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47231	Thank you very much. Thank you for asking, I managed to understand, of course, and that was the goal of what I wanted to say. It is not enough to wear the same shoes or shoes in Slavonia and Zagreb, the differences are much, much, much bigger and, of course, that such exotic examples as we talked about both me and my colleague Matula are certainly not something that will reverse the matter, but are certainly something that might give at least one piece of hope. In Slavonia, people of value and honesty live, but for some time which has not been favored by them, they cannot get out of the situation in which they have found themselves, so here we as the Croatian Parliament, of course the Government of the Republic, the Resort Ministry, have to put it into priority because Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem can help Croatia significantly in that economic work that everyone is talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47232	Dear Representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47233	Thank you very much. Dear fellow, you were talking about climate change which is also related to the need for irrigation in our premises, so I will stress that what we heard about 0.5%, that it is wrong, that 2.5% already has irrigation, only in Virovitica-Podravska County 4 are the irrigation systems at the end, 2 are finished and 2 are completed, with the help of the ministry, the county, farmers get irrigation with co-financing of the county without the kuna, the pay system is paid functionally to show how good it is, how much larger the quantities can be obtained from the hectare and what quality can be produced in our fields.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47234	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47235	That is, the difference backwards 5 years, is obvious when it comes to irrigation systems and there is no speech at all, with Virovitica-podravska and Brod-Posaviska, Požega-Slavonska, Osijek-Baranja County also has I think 6 irrigation systems, one of the largest in Croatia, the one in the Prince's Vinograds, which is foreseen for 6000 ha working surfaces for irrigation. Simply without these new approaches to agriculture, I don't think we're going to win the battle, therefore the investment of both Croatian waters and the rest of the ministry and local self-government when it comes to preparing plans and everything that goes towards it, and let's be honest, the counties will eventually have to law and take over, right, responsibility for managing the irrigation system. Therefore, at county level there will be much greater responsibility than it may have been so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47236	The Republic has a respected representative, Zmajic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47237	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Ivanovic, here today in the assembly, we have heard many times from some colleagues that the situation in agriculture is catastrophic and bad. Since you've been a bribe to the Osijek-Baranja County, and you're also meeting farmers today, and I'm curious whether from your conversations and communication with farmers dealing with agriculture and living from it, is it just as bad and catastrophic as we often hear here at the pay phone and in the assembly room? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47238	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47239	Thank you very much. If it were great and wonderful, it certainly wasn't, but if it were catastrophic, it would never have been signed either. Agriculture has changed back in 30, 40 years, today agriculture in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem does not look the same, sometimes in our Slavonian villages, practically every house has been partly agricultural. Today, all in one place with 500 or 600 or 1000 or 15,000 inhabitants, you may have 3 or 4 serious farmers who are engaged in intensive agriculture and everyone else is just here and there. What needs to be changed, which is also the secretary of state and the secretary of state points out, that we need to see the problem of whether fighting is the best route we've chosen to improve agriculture. This should be discussed, that one man holds 600 or 700 ha, mostly under 4 basic cultures, which I don't think will lead us far, therefore, certain things by which here, Mr. Peelke said, a lot of products, expensive products, that's a solution to agriculture. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47240	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the Honorable State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Tugomir Majdak, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47241	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. So first of all, I would like to thank you for today's debate on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Agriculture Act. It was about a lot of things today, something largely in the context of this law, but something beyond it. The agriculture of the Republic of Croatia, of course, is our strategic branch of the economy, one of the strategic branches of the economy, and this confirms today's debate that there have been a lot of issues, a lot of dilemmas, and related to what the Ministry of Agriculture is carrying out, or what it is already mentioned today, we need to answer some things which, therefore, are recorded data. As regards what is beyond the context of the agricultural land law itself, it is the Agriculture Act, that is, the Agricultural Land Act, so we currently have at the level of issuing consent to JLS 324 consents that include 268,000 hectares, far below that information that is being made here from 500,000 hectares of state agricultural land. 138 JLS conducted competitions for a total of something slightly below 40,000 hectares. Also so far, they have been delivered to the Ministry of Agriculture and 37 decisions have been delivered on the call for tenders for sale, so other than the JLS tender can also carry out tenders for the sale of state agricultural land up to a percentage of 25% at JLS level. As far as the irrigation itself is concerned, which is again part of this basic agricultural law, of course, that the data is not as devastating as it stands out. Here is Mr Ivanovnic, who presented climate change and the necessity of commitment through the future strategic plan of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. investments in irrigation, continuation and continuity of what is being implemented during the current programming period. And through two competitions, thus far 17 projects have been implemented on a total surface of 7,000 hectares, so a very enviable area if it is known that we are many years from the adoption of the NAV programme, so 15 g. were about 24,000 acres. So through only these two competitions of the rural development programme, the Ministry of Agriculture managed to realise 600 million kuna funds for 7,000 hectares through the paying agency. As far as the commission itself is concerned, the plan is also to draft a new law, but also through the National Recovery Programme this activity will also be implemented. As for the EU budget itself, so we have not received less funding from the EU budget but at the level of the future programming period we have 64.9 more funds for direct payments because someone probably does not account for Facebooking and period, or the transitional period or national contribution, we are talking only about EU funds. We'll also get more rural development funding by 6%. As for, therefore, the total farm envelope based on the CAP at the level of all Member States of direct payments is a larger envelope of 3.8% and rural development is less than 8%. This is somewhere at the level, therefore at the level of the existing budget for this programming period which continues in the next programming period. I didn't count here, therefore, certain funds negotiated by cohesion policy, and they go the same way in the agriculture budget. As regards the Green Plan itself and the "From Field to Table" Strategy, it is of course implemented on the basis of the action plan, so it is the action plan of the European Commission which is not binding and the action plan of the European Commission therefore has its own hodogram of activities and some of them will be implemented through directives or regulations at Parliament and council level and will be binding in this case. Therefore, and the Republic of Croatia supported the government's framework position, i.e. the government has adopted a framework position, and through the 3 parliamentary committees, meaning agriculture, the environment and the EU affairs are therefore discussed on the 'From Field to Table' strategy and a positive opinion has been given on it. So he discussed this tall home about, and he will discuss and discuss this strategy "From Field to Table". Also related to the crisis plan which is one of the components, i.e. the action plan for the implementation of the Strategy "From Field to Table". He's working on the basis of this strategy. A targeted task force has been formed to discuss the crisis plan again at EU level, and we cannot adopt the crisis plan before the procedure is respected. Of course, the representatives of the Republic of Croatia are included in our ministry in the work of this task force. As regards market interventions themselves, this is part of the common agricultural policy and mechanisms are also prescribed, but also measures to regulate the markets which the Republic of Croatia as well as other members must respect. Regarding the Waste Directive, the European Commission's letter of disagreement has, of course, arrived in the Republic of Croatia, as you stated. And not only about the area of the Ministry of Agriculture, but also some other ministries are covered by this directive. We have responded in a way that through the Law on Agriculture we will therefore implement this directive and after that, so we are not too late to get some kind of strict warning but through this letter and the answer to it, and through this law we will answer how this Waste Directive will be implemented, so EU legislation in this law will be implemented. As regards our own strategy for young and small farmers, that is, through both pillars of the common agricultural policy, but also through national policy, so above all, it is understood that the national part is one that is not binding on the basis of EU legislation, which is agricultural land. We take care of both the young and the young farmers. Here's Mrs. President. Petir pointed out this part of the accessibility of data to farmers. She pointed out that the Banovina has increased mobile stations. As I am a member of the headquarters, therefore, there are six stations, extremely high investments, large investments, but within a very short record period with the help of the headquarters, the Croatian Army, as well as Croatian forests that have made two access routes and funded them, so these six mobile stations are operational so that not only farmers, but also those who are the most talking about them get the Internet available in this area of Banovina. Regarding the food bank, to confirm again this information related to the NPO, means the National Recovery and Resistance Programme for 32 million kunas that will be spent on the establishment of a food bank, strengthening the infrastructure, launching the platform's Internet, upgrading the IT system for food donation. In 2020, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/35 on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Union and the European Union and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the European Economic Community, the European Union and the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation and the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation and the Swiss Confederation. We have an increase of 13.8% in the quantities of donated food, an increase in the Here were those answers from my side, i.e. the Ministry of Agriculture, which were placed through this debate, and I hope that, in addition to the harmonisation at eu level, the law itself will contribute to a more efficient and transparent system in the part of the improvement of the text itself, and as regards the strategy itself, I would point out that in the eConstruction of the Agriculture Strategy for the period up to 2030. and not to be mentioned more than either the National Development Strategy of 2020 or the '21st. a period of up to 2030. Thank you for your attention for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47242	Here we have more replicas, the first respected representative of Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47243	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I'd like you to explain this food bank project a little bit more closely. So we saw from the report of the Committee on Agriculture and from the NPO that 32 million kuna was intended and that four regional centres would be set up, that is, according to some plans of model A, as far as I'm informed, model B would be the county center. Is this classic four Zagreb, Split, Rijeka, Osijek or what the centres are and what these 32 million kunas will be spent on, whether only on equipment or also some kind of education, so what kind of vision do you have about this project? And one more thing, the food bank is actually a non-profit organisation in all countries of the world or most of the food, but of course it is now the holder of everything at the beginning of the Ministry of Agriculture, but I guess then you'll withdraw from it and that in some kind of competition some kind of coordinator will be named, so here's a clean schedule of funds and visions that it'll all look like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47244	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47245	Thank you. Here I will repeat what I have already pointed out, so 32 million kuna through the NPO will be spent in self-instituting, strengthening infrastructure, starting the Internet, Internet platforms, upgrades to the IT system for food donation, and of course the platform will ultimately be as independent as you yourself pointed out, so it will not be run by...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47246	The next replica of the esteemed MP, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47247	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Secretary of State. So a large part of the debate and a lot of us discussed the context of climate change and agriculture. So, the plant and animal world will adapt and adapt to certain climate changes, and this has shown analysis and everything else. I'm interested in the future strategy for the development of agriculture, is that one of the chapters that you're going to have, do you have any experience, do you use individual institutes that are already dealing with and are talking about what changes and can be expected? It is about the eastern part of Croatia and it is especially about natural water flows. I talk all the time about Neretva Valley, which in that sense is an extremely great potential for us, and where there is a warning. Of course everyone's working on some kind of lab models, but climate change is a fact and I'm wondering what part of the new strategy you're going to take care of in which part?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47248	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47249	Thank you for asking, or thank you for the replica. So, of course, climate change is an integral part of both the EU-level strategy and our future Croatian agriculture strategy. Definitely through what you define, and will define a strategy through the strategic plan, measures in the irrigation function will be implemented, including this part of climate change, because if you remember we in some pre-accession funds couldn't just justify investments in irrigation, precisely because of climate change, and now we have this justification for investment in irrigation systems. And as the east of Croatia has been repeatedly pointed out here, so there is a growing climate... the characteristics of the drought are more frequent and there will be allocated funds not only through the strategic plan but also through the project "Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem" for sustainable agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47250	The next replica of the esteemed representative, Grman Kizivat.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47251	Thank you. So, Secretary of State, if I understand correctly, the strategy is called the 2030 Strategy, we moved away in 2020, and it's known by the time it's due, but it doesn't start or it'll start in 2022, say? That's the first question. I'm glad we made a move. The second question, if I get it right, we're going to get the same funds in the next budget period as we got in the previous ones, right in the numbers, doesn't that mean the percentage of this, the percentage of that, or we're going to get less anyway? Can you give a concrete exact amount, not now 6% here, 6% less here, 5% more here, etc. And another question that you owe me from the first replica, which position of the Republic of Croatia is about limiting support? That's what I asked you for the first time. And I am very sorry that Minister Vukkovic is sending you all these burning and hot questions instead of her coming and specifically answering all the questions because, as far as I know, she is going to Europe and negotiating.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47252	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47253	Thank you. The strategy is for the period until 2030. It is therefore implemented for this programming period or period until 2030, when it is adopted at parliament in the assembly, then it goes into effect. Of course it can't be started sooner. As a matter of fact, you have received an answer regarding this part of the restriction of support, of course we will define with the strategic plan all the restrictions because they are voluntary regarding the individual size of the economy if you thought of it and that was also one of the points of view that Croatia has represented, so that each member state voluntarily decides on this part, this part. As far as the amount of support is concerned, I said that if you followed it, it's not easy for you to present it now in 3. sentences. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47254	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Matula, not from the bench, the respected representative of Matula. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47255	Thank you, Vice President. The secretary of state at the e-consultation on this bill and now we're talking about a strategy that just ended a few days ago, on the e-consultation you saw yourself and one of your colleagues has already mentioned today how little there was actually a debate there. Some of them talk about how endangered the small OPGs are and how so far the whole strategy has been as large as it calls the mammoth companies, or those combinations. I'm curious how you see it, how it's possible that in these months the debate has really been so little debate. My impression is that she's actually falsified, that she's just being He says it's a debate. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47256	Thank you very much. The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47257	Thank you, Honorable Representative Matula, so we are in the framework of the adoption of this document, so in the process of adoption we have conducted a wide round of discussions with social, economic and all other partners. So they were all involved in building a strategy. My only answer to your question is that during that debate they were involved and familiar with the very content of the strategy because they also partly suggested it within these working groups that we have held over the past year at a level of more so our sectoral can call them committees. It means in the livestock section, in the plant production, in the organic production and everything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47258	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate, we'll vote when we get the conditions for this point. We've gone a little wide because the strategy is not subject to the law or anything, but well I've allowed it, but I'd like to continue to stick to the subject. Let's go to the following bill, that's: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Breeding of Domestic Animals, second reading, P.Z. Number 71. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172 in conjunction with Article 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, the Honorable State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Tugomir Majdak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47269	Thank you. The Honorable Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives, the Law on the Breeding of Domestic Animals entered into force on 1 January 2019 and was published in the National Journal, so 115 of that year. The analysis of the current normative framework assessed the need for further improvement of national legislation in the field of beekeeping. The law stipulates that gray bees, which is our original breed, are grown in the Republic of Croatia, but there is no possibility that the conditions for the breeding of grey bees on fertilising cells should be further governed by the regulation. The provisions of the law stipulate that the registry of queen growers is run by the Ministry of Agriculture. These legal amendments propose that the registry of queen growers be run by a breeding society which does not restrict the keeping of the register in question to one breeding association. Any legal person engaged in the breeding of domestic animals with the intention of creating farmed domestic animals may apply for recognition to the competent ministry in accordance with Article 5 of the applicable law on the breeding of domestic animals. The provisions of the laws laying down the rules governing the management of bee pasha cadastres are deleted for difficult application in practice. Operational management of pasture-related operations is not prescribed by the applicable law and these legal amendments provide legal basis for the conduct of pasture-related operations. The business of the pasturage order The Croatian beekeeping alliance for the needs of the Ministry of Agriculture has been conducted operationally since 2008 involving 125 beekeepers as a pastel commissioner in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia. The Ministry of Agriculture and the State Inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia shall oversee the implementation of those tasks. The main objective of amending and supplementing the law is to provide a legal basis for defining the conditions of cultivation in the protection of the original grey bee, to enable a recognised breed society to keep registers of queen growers and to regulate the operational implementation of business and pasture order. New Articles 4 and 5 have been added to the first reading, and Articles 4 and 5 so far have become Articles 6 and 7. The new Article 4 of the infringement provisions of the law shall be brought into line with the added Article 22(4) of this Act as well as the transitional provision referred to in the new Article 5 of the final proposal of the Law. Article 5 of the final proposal provides for a transitional provision in the remainder, the remainder in force of the bee-holding and bee-fed catastro until the new regulation enters into force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47270	Thank you. We also have this brief exposure of yours down the replicas. The first one's a respected volunteer, Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47271	Thank you. So, dear Secretary of State, let us be honest until the end, so these amendments, which are suggested by this law, suggest that two associations be added or granted additional powers, so we are talking about a recognised breeding society that is entitled to run the Register of Matricians Breeders and the second is that the Association of Croatian beekeeping alliances performs an operational part of the business of managing the pasture order, and then my question is how did the Ministry of Agriculture ever come up with the idea that some state business could be performed by an ordinary association of citizens? Do you know in the ministry that we have the principle of trioing the government, so to legislative, executive and court, that's what the article is talking about. 4. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. If you know, please answer me where the associations belong so that next thing you know, they can be for anything authorized by law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47272	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47273	Therefore, the Croatian beekeeping union as a legal person is not a recognised breeding association but is a form of voluntary association of beekeeping associations as a fundamental institutional form of association of beekeepers in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the breeding society will become every association that reports to the Ministry of Agriculture and is approved and implemented by the breeding programme, so in the work of the grey bee in Croatia, it must not be just one in the matter of queens, it must not be just one breeding society but rather if, in their breeding programme, they prescribe goals in which their activities will be targeted and these objectives cannot be identical, so we cannot register two breeding associations for the same activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47274	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47275	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, of course, the debate in the first reading was the topic of who, that one association would run part of the business, and several times the Croatian beekeeper's alliance was mentioned. You have now spoken in your opening statement about the fact that since 2008 125 beekeepers have been working as a pastel commissioner and now it is the subject, if we need a pastel commissioner, which he does when he determines something, which are consequences, how it all works together because if it is the Croatian beekeeper's union that is the association, it is a question of his ability to act at all and the possibility of any consequences. What if he finds that some things are wrong, what does he do next, and what does that make any sense that you've regulated it all by law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47276	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47277	Thank you. Therefore, 125 pastel commissioners, or pastel commissioners, are there, or related to their activities, to ensure the safety of citizens in particular, but also to ensure the prevention of the spread of the disease. Therefore, if it is a moving or stationary beekeeping, no one may, without the approval of a pastel commissioner, report his location and if he does not report it, and the paste commissioner determines an irregularity, he will, of course, be notified or sanctioned. Here, in short, so the way it works, I've had a recent chance in practice of one such case, so I'm telling you from practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47278	The next replica is respected MP Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47279	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, to my representative's question, how many persons in the bodies of the association of farmers of selected queens of the bee Croatia and their immediate family have received funds from the Agency for Payment in Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development in the last 5 years from the national beekeeping programme for the renewal of the bee fund, you replied that this agency does not lead and does not have data available to the users of persons in the bodies of the association. So is it possible that one association can work and share money to whoever it wants and wants it without any control from the competent ministry? If you don't know, I'll answer you to know that in the future. $2.3 million a year, and it just looks like yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47280	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47281	Thank you. I don't remember this answer being given. So, the system is transparent, so on the subject of associations but also all of those kinds of support provided by the Ministry of Agriculture through our budget under the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47282	Replica has a respected representative, Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47283	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Secretary of State Majdak, I've received an e-mail saying clearly about being in an article. The 34th point 18 on pastel commissioners who are given certain powers under the Law of the Pastel Order, there are certain problems. So when they report the pasture of certain beekeepers in a particular area, when beekeepers report to them, it happens that many times their intricacies, haughtiness, or something else comes to intervention and even inspectors, inspectors determine that everything is as it says in the rule, are there sanctions for these pastel commissioners?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47284	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47285	Thank you for your comment. We will check all the allegations but, of course, every employee, whether a question or employee, in this case a pastel commissioner, must act according to the regulation or the law, and I am glad that the inspection has found that there is no irregularity.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47286	The Republic has a respected representative named Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47287	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, when we talk about this law and the protection of our indigenous breed of grey bees, then it's inevitable to talk about the product she gives and that's honey. We know that the analyses show both at EU level and at Croatia level that 1/3 of honey placed on the market is paved. In that sense, the ministry has launched certain activities beyond stricter controls, the establishment of a laboratory for analysis, but also together with the sector, has launched a project called Croatia's honey jar. I wonder how the Ministry supports this project. Are there any other mechanisms available to make the project stronger, and are there other projects that should contribute to the awareness of the use of Croatian honey?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47288	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47289	Thank you for your question. As part of the promotion, therefore, of this high value product that bees give or produce, the Ministry of Agriculture has started a campaign for the purpose of, as you have said, awareness of the users themselves, starting from the first grade of primary school and in the period from 2018 until now, through School Honey Day, we are increasing the number of children's schools in the 1st grade. And through the jar, so the Croatian jar here is the last information that the larger number of beekeepers on April 19th compared to the observed period of 3 months are included in the jar, but the number of sold greenhouses is also increasing by co-financed by the Ministry of Agriculture, both activities in this segment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47290	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. The Honorable Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, Marijana Petir, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47291	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, deputies and deputies. At its 23rd session held on 27 April 2021, HS discussed. Final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Breeding of Domestic Animals as a home working body. It is noted that the difference between the proposal and the final draft of the law consists of the addition of new articles with the aim of harmonising the infringements and transitional provisions of the proposed act. As a series of questions have been raised regarding the protection of this indigenous breed of bees, gray bees, but also with the production of honey and cooperation with the sector, I will re-route this to read full reports on the pages of the assembly, and I have checked it out indeed. But what I will point out from the debate is that the representatives were interested in when the Honey Directive would change at European level and we received the answer that at the meeting of the Council of Ministers for Agriculture and Fisheries they would discuss this early next year. Also, the tender under measure 5.2.1 of the Rural Development Programme is ongoing and based on this tender, and in the event of a disaster declaration and after the determination of the damage by the Commission for the assessment of the elemental accident for those farmers or beekeepers, the eligible cost is the restoration of bee communities, hives and beeswax. The agriculture ministry is co-operating with the Croatian beekeeping alliance to promote Croatian honey. 1.3 million kuna is provided for the implementation of the project School Honey Day, which is implemented in 950 primary schools, covering 39,000 primary school children in the first grade. Another type of promotion is a measure from the National Beekeeping Programme that will bring the national honey jar closer to consumers through digital marketing and modern communication. We are also informed that the project is under way, in the realisation of the project implemented by the Croatian beekeeping alliance together with the Educational Institute "Dr. Andrija Printar" and the implementation of which will serve soil, water and honey samples for the typicalisation of Croatian honey, which is also the beginning of the production of Croatian pollen atlas. After the debate was held, the Committee decided to propose to the majority the HS the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Breeding of Domestic Animals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47292	Thank you. I'm opening a debate and the first one on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club will speak to the esteemed representative, William Matula, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47293	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. If I didn't call you all back, I just called you all, but I didn't say yes, yes, yes, Mr. Majdak was here, I haven't said hello yet, to you. My colleagues and colleagues, what I need to say in this Law on the Breeding of Domestic Animals, which is of course related primarily to beekeeping, in this case, is mentioned the Association of Breeders of selected queens of Croatia, my colleague said the same amount of money for, for these associations and how much it is too obvious that it is a relationship with this association which, I suppose, I don't know enough about it, I only hear the criticism of those other parties as much as they really produce those queens and what I've heard from these great bear producers, which is that this grey bee can be obtained from a very high quality queen grower in Germany and that they do it very well and that it is not how many generations back-checked everything and that they get queens from there and it is convenient, quality and they are sure to do so among others in this way. What is in this debate and in the memos received by my colleagues and colleagues is about these large honey producers who talk about 2% of them paying a tax on honey production. I know from Gorski kotar really top bear manufacturers who are at the level of hobbyists who have fantastic honey, and to say smaller producers, but they are certainly not manufacturers that have a large number of hives on trucks, trailers and which at some point can go to any part of Croatia. On this pastel order there are obviously problems and for some reason the Croatian beekeeper's alliance with these people is in conflict and I think that's not enough working on it, I think it's an unnecessary conflict simple and it seems to me that it won't be possible to just work to keep it beekeeping, Croatian beekeeping alliance, a few people working there who get their salaries is obviously there's a huge conflict of interest. The Croatian beekeepers' alliance is in fact an alliance of 150 beekeepers' associations and what people tell me is that many of these producers are not familiar with what this law will adopt and tell us that the penalties that will follow will lead to the situation they had and have failed in the right way to resolve it in Slovenia. It may be a question that it is not easy to determine how much size it may have, or that practice can show what an entrepreneur who has decided to invest in hives and deal with all of this, deal with all the risks of the disease. What the gentleman said to me.../incomprehensible/... about American rot, of course you should and can deal with me these people who make it big that the basic thing is that you can't let over a month have a hive examined and then that it is already at risk in any part of Croatia. So these great producers, when they decided to do such a job, they, of course, come down that is also a great risk and obviously they went out, the man who tells us that he was a pastel commissioner, has this experience, we talked about it the same thing on the board, but when I mentioned Slovenian producers they all claim that it was one of these inappropriately strict laws in Slovenia that led to these larger producers, all those who moved, that they had to give up in the end, that they had failed. What seems to me to be a solution and to avoid conflicts because let's say that if you complain to that commissioner who doesn't give you a chance to come to a place then that's all you know well, it's a question of conflict, a question of ownership of a particular plot or a lease or a right to those hectares that someone has sown with an oil tail and the question of swarms flying above in any direction and therefore a pastel commissioner, of course it should help people agree. But if you came with them, a man testifies to us that after that, he had 37 oversights of a cattle inspector. It's obviously some kind of personal conflict. If you are now giving these same people who are doing it that way, that's a few people, giving this law permanent power, it's really possible that these few of these larger producers are really going to fail. That's how they tell us. What I see here as an opportunity and the only solution to the future, if you won't have to give again to some flower shop and Alan Ford group of making digital aids, but you can't tell me that our top IT experts if you don't go, again I'm saying there's not only a flower shop there's this royal organization, as it's called, that it's not directly called because it's so dangerous that all of our top IT experts are better at work than home and in nature for the top foreign companies than domestics. That's what HDZ is responsible for, there's a lot of these authorities too. So, I want to say the fruit trees that have suffered this terriblely this year with this cold, with this ice for a few days, so there won't be any apples, nor, nor cherries, nor peaches, apricots, it's all but terrible suffering. What you can do is that there's a digital app, a digital platform in which you can see if someone's advert I have a couple of days' time coming out of my tail or I don't know here is an acacia to that extent that you can agree on what amount of possibly these larger manufacturers can come in and that they really see it in a given time and that they are advertising and that I don't know whether there are any auctions about it then, but in that sense, it could certainly help one such application not to argue with each other and not to demonstrate force and not to force each other into the risk of total destruction and destruction of production. I repeat, this law is now passed especially with those single registered queen growers, I believe, there are people out there who are really dealing with it and doing it because it's a great pleasure and a great dense, getting the incentives we've heard, however, it seems like the thing isn't solved, and they assure us people that this law is not going to solve it, but it's only going to make things worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47294	Thank you. The next club of MPs will be the SDP on behalf of which Martina Grman Kizivat, the respected representative, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47295	I would like to thank the Vice-President of the HS, the honourable state secretary with an associate, co-workers and fellow MPs. I have mentioned several times today that in Croatia agriculture is in catastrophic condition. However, from the previous debate, I must conclude that, not only in agriculture, there is chaos, but chaos in the government and in the Ministry of Agriculture. We don't know what our strategy is called. We have already changed the strategy by 2030, we do not know how much money from the EU we will get in the next budget period. We do not know what our position is about limiting support, some Member States have taken their stand long ago, and now we need to discuss the Law on the Breeding of Domestic Animals, our minister is still missing, our minister obviously over-forsulated yesterday because she is having a debate with the Secretary of State and then it is the Secretary of State who has to take questions, sometimes small and uncomfortable only with the goal of the parliamentary deputies getting concrete answers. Well, Secretary of State, tell our dear minister that parliamentary deputies don't bite. They ask questions, sometimes a little bit and ticklish, but just to encourage this ministry to finally start doing its job. Even though we're talking about bees today, we're not buzzing, we're asking questions. Please welcome her very much and tell her to get a good rest, that for the next law and all MPs are expecting because what we always have to ask you is beyond any sense. She's supposed to go to Brussels, she's supposed to negotiate, you don't know in the end, obviously neither do you, which is how she negotiates it. We don't know what amount of funds we'll get. We don't have an attitude. Not even a strategy, which you've yelled so much, and it'll be well paid, you don't even know its name. So please make a deal more. And now I'm supposed to be talking about the Animal Breeding Act. So I also have a few things to tell you, that we consider this bill to be complete and highlighted again some shortcomings. First of all, we propose to regulate the treatment of agricultural holdings, farms and animal care in the event of natural disasters and natural disasters. We are witnessing that decisions on the accommodation of animals and their diets are made ad hoc, and are often left to the producers and volunteers themselves, we have had the opportunity to watch recently, unfortunately. In order to provide clear guidance on the handling of state and public services in those situations, we insist that the law be complemented by provisions relating to animal care and the preservation of their biodiversity and genetic variability including original and protected breeds. We believe that the proposed final proposal for a Law on the Breeding of Domestic Animals remains undefined by clear priorities related to the European Green Plan, yet I, on the European Green Plan and the long-term strategy adopted at EU level. I'm going to give you an example, namely, even though we made remarks in the debate, when we first read the law, in the final proposal for amending the law, there is no clearly defined difference between biodiversity and genetic variability. It is thus indicated for the gene bank that this is a collected, documented and stored collection or a set of aggregate and genetic biological material, hence genetic and biological. Since the necessary complementarity of the provisions has not been carried out and the issue of the conservation of biodiversity is not regulated, it could be found in a similar situation as we found ourselves in the law with seeds, fruit material and the recognition of varieties of agricultural plants in which there is insufficient importance on this subject. In most EU Member States, the Ministry of Agriculture and Services, under the Ministry of Agriculture, issue guides, guidelines, clarify changes to the legal framework. In Croatia, the advisory service has also done so instead of which is now established the Office for Professional Affairs and Analysis at the Ministry of Agriculture. So there's no indication of the name of the advisory service. The analysis is making us again mentioned by the famous World Bank at a price that you know very well. In addition, there used to be a Croatian agricultural agency that supported our farmers in the livestock sector. Today it is part of the Ministry of Agriculture and part of the Croatian Agency for Agriculture and Food. So domestic breeders as well as many other farmers in other sectors, of course, are left to whom? You're on your own. Once again, I stress that other forms of production such as integrated cultivation, permaculture, biological-dynamic farming and others need to be analysed with organic farming. This type of cultivation can be defined under the climate and environmental programmes financed through direct payments, but also by rural development measures. And all of this was to be done at national level in the production of strategic documents, but unfortunately, there is no such thing in the newly developed future agriculture strategy that we don't even know what it's going to be called today, because it's recently been on e- Consultation. Of course, we're late. As with the whole set of laws. But good. In the Law itself on the management of parent books, relatives and other breeding books, the Ministry leaves everything to recognised breeding organisations, calling for EU directives, of course. We support the approach to entrust some of the jobs to farmers themselves, however, we believe that such provisions should be clearly defined in the National Programme, the coverage of the National Programme, and there would be no need to define it in each programme of recognised breeding organisations. From the final draft of the law we still do not really understand why the management of the register of queen bees is transferred from the ministry to a recognised breeding association, and the operative part of the business of managing the pasture order is transferred to the Croatian beekeeping union. As far as we know, that catastre was established as early as 2011. and for him significant funds have been allocated from the state budget. The disaster is the basic base of beekeeping and monitoring of the inter-relevant potential as an important factor for sector development and growth in production. And now the ministry throws all that money away and shuts down the cadastre. Bravo. On the other hand, transferring tasks to others will lead to new costs, of course, for whom? And beekeepers. And only the ministry, as far as we know, has enough employees and can do all these jobs. Well, they're still paid for the state budget. And whose money is that? Well, that's Croatian citizens' money. So you could just get better organized. I could now give you a series of comments here, but from all of this, there is a clear need to draft a new law which, of course, you and the previous laws when we said that a new law should not be adopted, which would, of course, clearly define the priorities of the European Green Plan that I mention, but neither the letters nor the words about this European Green Plan on your part, and all of this would be arranged and certain issues that are now not regulated in this law. And finally, once again, welcome Minister Vukkovic and tell her that parliamentary deputies do not bite, they do not buzz, but only ask finally fair and real questions in order to resolve the state of Croatian agriculture and reduce the chaos in their own ranks first because in this way chaos in Croatian agriculture you will certainly not know how to solve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47296	The next Club of Representatives will be the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Marijana Petir will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47297	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS, Secretary of State with an associate, representative and representative. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the Breeding of Domestic Animals should be viewed primarily as a tool to protect the Croatian indigenous breed of bees, gray bees, and therefore to plan adequate management of this breed with the aim of preserving its genetics. This is important to us because the breeding of grey bees is extremely grateful, and its resistance and non-aggressive nature have positioned this breed of bees as a significant producer of honey in the Republic of Croatia, both in our rural and urban areas. The calmness and high level of honey yield combined with genetically enhanced resistance to certain bee diseases and pests, but also the rapid development of the bee community and the less need for food supplies during the winter period of rest are combinations which, with a good climate year, guarantee our beekeepers high bear yields, and to us consumers the quality of honey. Due to all of the above, the bees of the grey bees community are one of the most important and most recognized breeds of bees in the Republic of Croatia. In order to continue this in the future, as well as to perceive the occurrence of crossing grey bees with other bee breeds, which is present in our neighbouring countries and causes difficulties in the selection work and the usual breeding of queens, it is important for us to work on the preservation of this population, and in addition to the law we are discussing lay the basis for a national legal framework for beekeeping to ensure the protection of bees as an indivisible part of the biodiversity, but also to ensure the preservation of the only original bee breed in the field of the Republic of the Grey Bee and protect its genetic material. In a simple dictionary, Croatian beekeepers have created the practices and activities they carry out during the year, which are in line with the needs of the bee community of gray bees. It is therefore important to preserve their genetic material because the possible potential occurrence of the crosses would have a significant impact on the usual practices carried out by our honey beekeepers, which would result in the effects of the honey production itself. And therefore, it is good that this legislative proposal focuses more attention precisely on the definition of the conditions of breeding and the protection of the original grey bee because it will thus be the association of the breeder of selected queens of the bee of Croatia, so to the professional body that deals with these businesses for more than 20 years. To enable the management of the register of queen growers, and to work on breeding programs to work on strengthening the genetics of grey bees, and thus to preserve the practices that our beekeepers carry out in the production of honey, which I have already mentioned. Therefore, this is not only about jurisdiction over the management of the register of queen growers, which is an obligation that the Ministry of Agriculture makes to a recognised breeding association, but it is about a comprehensive task with a wide range of possible impacts on both the gray bee itself and its role in the production chain, its role in pollination, its importance for agricultural production, but also for Croatian beekeepers. It is therefore good that these activities are carried out by those who are in daily contact with bees and beekeepers and who can quickly warn, alarm and initiate activities with a view to preventing potential threats on the ground. The same can be said of the changes proposed or proposed to the management of the pasture. We all know that these jobs have been done for years, more specifically since 2008. The paste commissioners, members of the Croatian beekeeper's Union, perform. This is about 128 pastel commissioners who carry out the work of the beeroot movement organisation in their area by collecting data for the establishment and keeping records of beekeepers and bees communities. This is an obligation stemming from the membership of the Republic of Croatia in the EU and until now these transactions have been regulated by a sublegal act, and the proposed amendments to the law will be more clearly prescribed by the power to collect these data. Generally looking at clearer regulation of jurisdiction and delegating administrative functions for selecting, caring for the preservation of genetics and development of the original breeds programme should also result in more effective management of the gray bee population which will ensure that it protects and uses all the benefits it gives us, which I believe is the goal of all of us, because the role of the bee and their contribution to the conservation of ecological balance and biodiversity is underestimated and it is necessary to work on its empowerment. The danger of reducing the number of bees poses a threat to the continuation of agricultural production that we know and the maintenance of plant species that surround us and, indirectly, to the availability of food. Therefore, people who have devoted their lives to caring for bees and honey production need to be relieved of their business in order to continue to do a responsible and useful job, but also to attract new beekeepers. A significant element of potential interest in dealing with any type of economic activity, as well as in beekeeping, are finances, and they are closely linked to the availability of the market and the sales opportunities of manufactured products. Therefore, in further activities and plans, among other things, and in the implementation of this law, it is necessary to work to upgrade the visibility of honey produced by Croatian beekeepers in order to enable consumers to make available all information on the product they purchase and enable them to make decisions on the selection of domestic products. The national project of voluntary marking of honey jars marked by Croatian honey jar is one of the examples that should be encouraged in the future and in which a number of Croatian beekeepers should be included. By increasing the number of beekeepers involved in this project, we are letting consumers know that they are buying Croatian product. We are directly determining this decision against unfair commercial practices that happen in traffic and honey marketing, and it is necessary to highlight it, inform our citizens and thus affect their decision to buy Croatian products. We consider it crucial to find additional mechanisms by the Ministry of Agriculture which would encourage Croatian beekeepers to participate in the project of voluntary labelling with the label of Croatian honey jar. In addition, no less important, the Republic of Croatia, together with other EU Member States, should persist in the process of agreeing to amend the Honey Directive in order to prescribe the introduction of mandatory labelling of the country of origin of honey production and thus prevent fraud related to the marketing of honey in the EU and reduce the share of paved honey in the European market. As a result, the possibility of better positioning on the European market of unpainted honey would be opened, honey not produced in the garage, but honey that produced real bees in the hives of real bees that affect not only agricultural production but also the maintenance of rural areas by bees production and care. But until an agreement is reached at European level, it is important to strengthen national level activities related to the control of the origin, quality and health of honey and targeted programmes to work on the protection of bees and to strengthen the role of Croatian beekeepers by contributing to the conservation of biodiversity and food production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47298	Thank you. It's been three of us again now, so we're gonna take a short break for the wind. I'll see you at 3:30. It's 3:23 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 15:30 A.M.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47300	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, fellow MP, so Article 1. The Law on the Breeding of Domestic Animals requires that the same applies to grey bees. Since EU Regulation 2016/1021 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2016 does not apply to grey bees, and in the Law on the Breeding of Domestic Animals, this animal is also considered to have no need to distinguish bees from other animals covered by the Regulation. Therefore, we propose that the procedure and conditions for the recognition of breed societies and breeding organisations in respect of pure breeding animals of the pure breed of grey bees bees be carried out in the same way as prescribed for other animals, which means in accordance with Article 4(3). Regulation (EU) 2016/1012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2016. Since no other animal is prescribed in the Law on the Breeding of Domestic Animals for any other animal, the existence of a register or the conditions for fertilising cells or any other conditions of holding shall be deemed to be above and contrary to the principle of equality indicated for the gray bee. On the other hand, in its explanation of the draft final draft law, the applicant stated that the provisions of the laws laying down the rules governing the management of the bee cadastre are deleted because of the difficult application in practice. On the other hand, it is proposed that a bee of pasture bees be determined. The concepts of bee pasha cadastres and bee pashas overlap with content. Since the bee pasha cadastre could not be determined and it is clear that the pasha bee in practice will not be able to be able to determine precisely enough to ensure the legal protection of the address of this law. The unique register of domestic animals is an existing database of breeders and owners of domestic animals, numbers and locations of domestic animals. It is therefore not necessary to allocate additional funds from the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for bee and beekeeping records, operational implementation of the pasture order and pastel Commissioner. This saves about a million kunas a year, which are now detached from the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for the benefit of the Croatian beekeepers' union in the name of beekeepers' and beekeepers' records. The Croatian Agricultural Agency is not in a position to compete with breeders and bee owners, therefore there is no fear of the abuse of personal data that it collects unlike the Croatian beekeepers' Union whose members are competitive on the market with the addressees of the bill. The national authorities shall at any time have an insight into the location of bees in the event of a threat to human and animal health through a single register of animal holding and the number placed next to the beekeeper. The occurrence of nectar in bees harvesting for the production of honey is conditioned by nature and is therefore always unpredictable. Therefore, breeders and bee owners often make their decision on the place where the bees are placed. The Internet allows you to log in at any time, including working days. Today's citizens' associations are already receiving funding from the state budget. In 2017, the Croatian beekeeping alliance and the Ministry of Agriculture concluded a million kuna contract whereby the Croatian beekeeping alliance was to use the money allocated to finance to carry out the operations of beekeepers' and beekeepers' records, monitoring production and marketing of honeys, which finance the work of pastel commissioners. For the same purpose, contracts were concluded in 2018, 2019 and 2020. What did the taxpayers give the money for without a public tender? It is primarily for the performance of beekeeping and beekeeping activities and the work of pastel commissioners. Therefore, in accordance with Article 129. The law on the farming of beekeepers and beekeepers is an integral part of the unique register of domestic animals. And that records should actually be kept by the Ministry. Otherwise, the unique register of domestic animals is run by the Croatian Agency for Agriculture and Food, and in this register all holders of domestic animals are required to report directly to the number of animals themselves. Where, then, the ministry has the legal basis to leave the association of citizens to collect data for records and to conclude a financing contract without a public tender. This brings us to the situation that all animal keepers report their animals directly to the JUDG through an application other than beekeepers. In turn, the beekeepers report their animals to a pastel commissioner, the pasti commissioner transmits the data to the Croatian beekeeper's union, then the Croatian beekeeper's union forwards data to the ministry and finally the ministry in the unique register of the holding of domestic animals. This data transfer chain costs citizens at least one million kuna a year. Beekeepers are obliged to report once a year in December the number of hives. The beekeeper, according to the ministry, is about 8,500, even if it did not exist, and there is an electronic access to the unique animal register that the owners directly enter the number of domestic animals, but that the ministry and hired one person to regularly enter the GDRZ data delivered with a gross salary of about 6,600 kuna would then cost up to 100,000 kuna. The second thing that the Croatian beekeeping alliance allegedly does is monitor the production and marketing of honey. No citizen association has access to production data. Manufacturers are not obliged or should be obliged to provide information to a company about their business because it is actually a business secret. On the other hand, there is a State Statistics Office that collects data on production, sales of goods from business entities, and then until the entry into force of the provisions of the OPG Register Regulation there was an obligation for farmers to keep records of the production of agricultural products. Today, in accordance with that Regulation, there is a obligation for the farmer to deliver directly electronic information on agricultural production. So again, despite existing state data collection, taxpayers finance the association to do the same job once more. It would also be good if the ministry could give us the result, therefore in the form of a written document on collected data on honey production and marketing for all years since taxpayers have financed it. So, statistics show that we have a drastic decrease in beekeepers and hives over the last 3 years, which reduced our honey production, and increased imports, the majority of imported honey is from third countries, so we're talking about China, which places cheap among the questionable qualities. The causes of loss of bee communities can be numerous. As already mentioned today, climate change, use of pesticides, inefficient treatments against infectious diseases, etc., etc. Looking at the problems of Croatian beekeepers, there is currently no regulated system to reorganise, facilitate, improve and coordinate the activities themselves in all the processes that follow it. In fact, the law was to be guided by the care, or by the legislator, rather than by how to please an individual. So I'm just going to ask one last question to the secretary of state. In whose possession is the national greenhouse that the Ministry promoted as a national? Who bought and made it possible for both of us to make and market this glass? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47301	The next club of representatives is that of the Centre and GLAS, and will be addressed by the respected representative Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47302	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, the esteemed secretary of state with an associate. A colleague and a colleague. In our second reading, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Breeding of Domestic Animals is before us. Therefore, the basic law is from 2018 and now that you are reading the reasoning of this Law, it is said in between that it is done because of the further improvement of national legislation in the field of beekeeping, that our prescribed conditions for grey bee, which is our original breed, will thus enable the protection and preservation of gray bee genetics in the area of the Republic of Croatia, to provide a legal basis for the implementation of the operational part of pasture operations. And all of this, when you read it, sounds quite okay, then you look at the little law, the law has all together seven articles of which are 2 that are, last that the minister will bring this, the rulebook, and the last one, when it comes into force and then suddenly in the first reading, and for God's sakes and second reading, you get a little consulting and you see a little bit of what's going on here on the ground. The bees, by the way, she's a handsome animal who's in cartoons and books by, so some of the childhoods remember the Mayan bees, and also, honey leaves some good taste, all of it, but these changes and additions of the law leave a bitter taste in all of us. So a number of questions are asked in the first reading, and to which questions have not been answered. The first question to be asked is why. So really, why? When it comes to bees, there is no use of the Croatian Agricultural Agency, which can take care of and collect data on bee breeders and owners, who, unlike the Croatian beekeeper's Union, who are members are competitors on the market, it is not and in this way would absolutely avoid all these conversations that we have and who are in replicas and in the first reading and replicas, pointed out. The problem is indicated, so the Croatian beekeeping union is an association. It's an association that according to the data we have, a membership of a series of members, and now that you see it, Art. 3 which says that the pasture line implies the means and conditions of use and assignment over the use of bee pasture, taking into account the number and accommodation of hives. All right. And then you see that since 2008, in the area of the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian beekeeper's alliance, through 125 beekeepers, has been the property of the Commissioner of Pasha. I'm asking you, I'm asking us all together. Doesn't it seem to you that when some other, new beekeeper comes along with his hives and comes to this pastry commissioner, there won't be any desire to save some space for someone or to have some other things and I don't understand, why, in law, I really can't understand it in principle, why we put in the position of an association that does work that normally does bodies with public authority? This isn't the first law where you do it. Remember when it was in reading the law on.../incomprehensible/... amending the Law on Veterinary, and there you suddenly set out in the system of public administration, i.e. public affairs which are very clear with us, you suddenly include the association that is doing a certain job. What about when a pasture, a pastel commissioner, makes abuse of his position? What is the procedure with regard to him at all? Exactly none, so he's a member of the association, he's not responsible for his own good, or bad procedure in the system of public administration, and we're done with that story. I really have to repeat, I don't understand why you introduced the story of an association into one legislation, so it still wants to be one, two or three associations it just doesn't work. And I'm going to come up with that topic that was very interesting to me that I pointed to in my first reading, and I'm going to point out today. So, you're a provision of art. 5. They said that until the entry into force of the new rulebook of Art. 1. This law remains in force by the bee-holding rule and the bee-fed cataster. Therefore, the bee-holding rule makes it impossible for bees to be kept in urban areas. Then how in the law do you have mutually harmonised or non-compliant laws, you have laws that are laws on municipal activities, and that is why all cities are doing their Law on Communal Order and, among other things, define areas where animals can possibly be kept. And an example of the City of Zagreb, so in the City of Zagreb you can't have urban beekeeping or hold or have beekeeping. And now of course you're a little bit interested in all of this together and then you see or get information to be precise until the end, so in the narrow area of the City of Zagreb at the center of Gornji Grad, Medveščak so this is one... area has 600 bee communities. Why? If bees don't know where the city's border is, bees don't know where the city is and where it's not the city. Bees as well as we know go from flower to flower and then when you have in the area of the green area there are bees. Bees in the City of Zagreb are called in chimneys and then people who are in charge of it when you see that you have bees and then those bees must be carried somewhere outside the city's borders because someone can't deal with urban beekeeping in the city of Zagreb. It has been shown that other cities have this as a single step, so you have cities that on their own or state to be precise, capitals in their parliaments have grown bees and then produce honey and then when you drink tea or whatever in some restaurants you have this honey which is the result and it actually speaks of an ecological awareness of certain cities, and in the City of Zagreb it is forbidden. We at one point when I'm talking about the GLAS party then we went with a request to change that in the decision on the municipal order of the City of Zagreb, and it caused quite a heated debate in the late evenings in the City Assembly and then it was said, but that we would, and of course they didn't, must be made possible by law or better made possible by this regulation on bee keeping and bee cadastre which was then complemented on several occasions. Those who deal with bee breeding say that, among other things, bees are also used for people who have certain mental problems, that it is not only that you have a product and healthy and everything else, but we do not find it crucial in our first reading alone on two occasions and on the board, and later in the plenary debate the Secretary of State asked whether it was even a matter of thought. And then I'm in charge of it very dryly, that it's not the subject of change and supplementation, and even that you can regulate it in this rule that you will, just to do something you have to want to do. What I'm saying is, what I'm saying here is that one law will come into the debate, it's relatively simple, it seems to you that there are no major obstacles, but then you actually see that something is hiding, or there's a clear idea that the law regulates one association's clear ability to work, or that 125 of these pastel commissioners will have some opportunities and some powers, and it's really good together when everything works well, it's all good together when we don't have a challenge, but the first recommendation will cause a lot of problems and I don't understand why you went with the amendment and the addition of the law and opened it unless it's someone's interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47303	The next club of representatives will be the Mosta in the name of the respected representative Marija Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47304	Yes, if that's not someone's interest, says a colleague, Dark Taritash. So far, most of the time, we have discussed the laws we have brought into line with EU directives and regulations. It is very rare for us to propose on our own initiative either certain legal changes or even new laws. So, I would say in this short term as far as I've witnessed, and I was active in most of the debate that we are rarely legislatively proactive. And then the situation happens that we're taking the initiative here, which is a positive thing, but it turns out that in the background of this initiative lies someone's interests. There have already been a lot of words today, and there have been justified words today, and I will continue to ask this same question with additional reasons because I think that before we decide to give support to this law we really deserve a lot of reasons, and it would be more useful if the legislator were so open to discussion and justice or to withdraw these amendments to the law or to adopt amendments that I believe most opposition clubs would propose. So, what's the problem? It's obvious, and you could hear in all the earlier discussions that there was a problem with this law. So, there is something that the Croatian beekeeping alliance, which has even addressed us with its statement today, and there is something that certain beekeepers who have been trying to reach parliamentary representatives for some time to direct them to potential problems and malversions that can result from these legal changes if they are adopted. What leads us to suspect that certain beekeepers who have spoken to us may indeed be right as opposed to the Croatian beekeeper's Union? First, a minister finally appeared in the House yesterday. Before I asked her a question about unfair trade practices, I noted that we would be happy to see her today when it is indeed appropriate for her to be in the Assembly because there are also major amendments to the Agriculture Act. So, a resolute minister under her fundamental law, and this law on domestic animals is also said to be smaller but not insignificant. The minister replied that she could not be present earlier because she was in Brussels. So, did she leave again today? Why isn't there a minister here? I will dare assume that the minister is gone and I believe there is no obligation that is more important than this to explain its fundamental laws to the Parliament, because he knows that there will be problems here. The second thing that suggests on suspicion is that here, this very little law on something that sounds so benign, which is to solve some legal regulations that would help grow grey bees and our beekeepers, just the last one on schedule, when we know that most of the media is no longer following the debate, the same as they have no opportunity for Croatian citizens other than those who have parliamentary television, and such minorities, if at all, are being followed, while those who have been given the task of afternoon monitoring by our informative agency, given the type of topic that is so politically potent unless you enter into the content itself, and in the way that usually afternoon discussions are being followed, we can expect some kind of smut of reasoning in which the first two, three clubs will be mentioned, and so this whole debate will fall into oblivity. And that's who makes the schedule in the Parliament, he knows very well. So neither did the minister come and the debate over the law itself was pushed to the end in the afternoon. And so all of what we're saying today should go invisible. The basic political problem with this law, regardless of who is right of those who have spoken to us, is that there is one parliamentary representative who participates in this ruling majority and who in this law should remain abstention and have had any morals in politics. This is Parliamentarian Bilek. Why should he stay restrained? Because he was a beekeeper's alliance at that stage when he was charged with subjugation fraud. And then where do we get into trouble? So, here for this speaker, I openly call on the said parliamentary representative in view of his direct and interesting involvement in the Croatian beekeeper's alliance, to remain restrained in addition to a moral message. Then what's the problem? The problem is, most of them are gone. And it's not our job here to keep most and only now do we see what it means to have such a thin majority. So, if it had to be in the assembly, this law couldn't be passed because most without that one parliamentary representative, it wasn't strong enough. What is really going to happen is that this situation is about to dissipate in a vote that will only take place next week, we'll see, but judging by the practice we've had so far, no one will think about morality, and the hands that need to be used will rise and thus all of this we're saying will prove to be superfluous, or fall to infertile soil. So when we talk about honey and bees in Croatia, we need to know that in principle honey is the kind with which we have a big problem at EU level because at least 1/3 of the fraud that has been proven is precisely in the distribution or the preparation of honey. And about 50% of the honey is imported from China. In Croatia we have and still have every opportunity to be self-sufficient. Of course, this does not prevent the market from obtaining various other products because we did not protect and regulate our honey production, as well as the parliamentary representative Petir, we were able to reduce at least VAT to honey to help our beekeepers who are indeed much less than the number of hives, which shows that we can do very well to help them strengthen their production. We do not know how many Croats consume honey annually, Greece and Austria are ahead of Europe with 1.7kg per capita while the average Europeans consume 0.7kg. Given our tradition and tradition of bear farming, it is to assume that Croats consume large amounts of honey, therefore this law is not insignificant because it will in some way determine that the government is setting itself up towards the beekeepers and to what extent allows certain associations that have been accused of malfeasance to have a view and a monopoly on the market. It has already been said here and I will repeat that what is happening with this is that one association that is a competitor on the market or an ordinary association of citizens made by those who also produce honey for market needs gets a privilege in relation to all other honey producers. It is completely unclear why this must be arranged, especially if we are aware of the fact that this subsidy fraud, which has been repeatedly spoken of here, has not yet been given the right word, and we do not know why it has not been given the right word. All we know is that the minister washed her hands out of it because, as she said at the committee's session, "she passed all the documents to the competent authorities" and so, as well as a lot of things about subsidisation fraud, which can be a lot bigger than these millions that have been mentioned so far, she stays in someone's drawer. For what? No one's responsible again. Since I am going to have an individual discussion now anyway, this debate on behalf of the club will conclude that it is useful to be legislatively proactive, but it is a very harmful message if it only happens when a specific entity can profit from it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47305	Thank you very much. Since the respected representative Selak Rasudić is the first in an individual debate to remain here and we can begin the debate immediately, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47306	We're not going to wipe this out after me so I don't infect myself. Okay, so I'm going to continue with this topic, and I'm going to express my disdain again because this debate is pushed in the afternoon, and there are serious problems that concern and corruption which is the fundamental problem of Croatian society, and they are found within these legal changes because if we don't even get into what we're not fully aware of, which is the side of the two opposing sides of the beekeepers who are Hobists and the Croatian beekeepers' union right to be in a situation where what is certain is that there is a certain subsidisation scam that has already been proven and can't be said, so the coins are returned, that's not enough. So there is something that someone is responsible for who made a mistake within the Croatian beekeeper's alliance. So now that the Croatian parliamentary representatives are objecting to the fact that this same alliance is given greater power to these legal changes, then it is not a problem in them, nor are they under anyone's influence but it is necessary to point to the person who was part of these same frauds, and this person will now find himself within the ruling majority. And what if she dares to be moral, and is excluded from deciding on this law, shall we bring down the government? Well, the government should fall under this law if it has to be in politics. How can one who is part of the whole subsidy fraud process that is not fully processed by the competent authorities decide on a law that will give greater authority to the same institution within which the fraud took place. It is not for us to arbitration, it is not for us to enter into different arguments of the sides that address us and take a non-critical stance, but it is for us to implement some clear principles in the work on which democracy and anti-corruption rests and in general the operation of HS, and in that sense I think that here is the position of parliamentary representatives for which we should advocate unequivocally. So what needs to be done is simply not to allow such powers to be taken over by the association of citizens, so associations, because it is on one side of the association, and on the other hand, as is known to be accused of corruption which is not fully processed. So some of the arguments that I'm going to enter here, which are spoken here and concerns a pastel commissioner who should assess how many hives can be in a particular area which is why certain legal articles have changed, while they question themselves because it's hard to say how they might do the same. Since our primary resource is honey, and honey is partly mentioned here as a result of an innumerable number of natural variables, air pressure, a percentage of moisture in the air, soil, plant itself, amount of sun, sunbathing, temperature, wind, clouds, strength and ability of bees themselves and countless other natural variables that we have no influence on. There are no scientific research on the possibilities of concrete honey yield in a particular area. The question is whether this will ever be able to be measured methodically precisely because we do not have the ability to control all natural variables, which we would certainly like to do. So the same microlocation, same number of trees, simplified one year to caricate 500 kg of honey in a month, another year 10 tons of honey in just 5 days. This is why these amendments and the powers given to pastel commissioners are also at stake. And it's not much worse to mention that a similar maneuver was tried in 2018, but it didn't go the same way. In this regard, it is worth noting that what to do with this legal proposal should be carefully considered. I will call once again on that member of the ruling majority who is in a direct conflict of interest to refrain from voting, and on the other parliamentary deputies not to give ease of authority to concrete associations of citizens, thus putting them in a privileged market position compared to all those other unprotected entities, the mednars whose work we must support.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47307	Thank you. Stay, you have one replica, Mrs. President. Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47308	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Selak Rasudiæ, I agree with you when you say I shouldn't be arbitration here. What we need to be interested in is that this job is done professionally and under supervision. Since this is not the only experience because for other animals there are breeding programs and they are carried out by authorised breeding associations, for example, for the indigenous breed of Croatian horse breeder, this is what their alliance does, and the cold-blooded does their alliance. So this isn't any innovation, but now through the law it's actually legalized what they've been doing for years and doing that job well and professionally and queenly, and the Queens' Association and the Beekeeper's Union, so I don't think we can dispute that expertise. As you mentioned the VAT issue to honey in your presentation, I addressed this initiative to Minister Marić, and I received the answer that the analysis is under way because other MPs have also made some proposals to reduce VAT to certain others. products so that they are expected through the following [[Intruder: Thank you.]] a circle of discharging information about it. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47309	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47310	As far as this initiative on reducing VAT to medical ones that I alleviate, because I believe that given our resources and capabilities, and also the interest in Croatia that exists in the production of honey, it is our comparative advantage over the rest of the EU, where, not only can we contribute to a healthy life and a quality hobby, but also to serious business activity, but we can benefit from it as a country, so I certainly welcome that part. As for this second part, where there are other associations dealing with other animals by regulating how to deal with them, that's partly true, but here we have a specific situation, firstly, the difference is whether associations are doing something and doing it voluntarily, depending on their membership and when we make a legal change, that they are the only ones who can do it, and secondly, we here have a serious crime problem that hasn't been prosecuted to the end. If this were to get its epilogue, then we could think about what the Croatian beekeeping alliance should do.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47311	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. Thank you very much. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47312	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the HS, State Secretary with associates, MPs and MPs. We have before us the legislative changes that suggest certain administrative and professional jobs in some way related to breeding associations of bee queens, operational jobs related to pasture, entrusted to those who have been doing this for years and know how to do it professionally. All with the goal of preserving the grey bee in all its important roles. Why is this important? Well, because it's a pollinator that has a key role in maintaining biodiversity and food production. The question of the position and the protection of pollinators is the question that is much wider than what we have heard here today, from the register itself or the pasture order, and especially if we know that the activities carried out to protect pollinators, both in our country and in other EU Member States, have not fulfilled their purpose, the European Court of Auditors' findings of July last year have also testified. Personally, when I read these European and Croatian reports on biodiversity, on the state of environmental protection, and on the way of managing our natural resources which Croatia is rightly proud of, I wonder how seriously we take as a society the changes that take place around us on this climate and environmental plan, how much we are aware of our impact on these changes and how much we are aware that our activities can actually cause imbalances in nature, which is exactly the situation with pollinators that we take for granted and we think that this is not our problem and will not affect us. The other side of this story is the synergy that is needed between farmers and beekeepers in order to avoid situations which we unfortunately witnessed when it comes to bee-murdering in Međimurje and this suggests that we need synergies between the professional and scientific public, but also advisory services that will transfer knowledge that has the necessary activities to adequately protect pollinators, including the grey bee. To talk about bees, not to talk about honey, would certainly be a major failure, and what I want to warn again are manipulations and frauds that happen with honey to be stopped, Croatian beekeepers should be given full support, all information about the origin and quality of honey should be made available to consumers. The resistance provided in accordance with the Honey Directive at European level should not, on the other hand, encourage us in Croatia to take action ourselves to support our producers and strengthen activities related to the control of the origin, quality and health of honey and also introduce some targeted programmes to protect bees and strengthen the role of beekeepers. In Croatia, there are several authorised laboratories that have accredited one or more methods to analyse the quality of honey, and beekeepers have informed me that honey is sent to the analysis outside the Republic of Croatia because we do not have sufficient capacity to carry out these analyses, especially when it comes to honey that we export and which must undergo controls in a reference laboratory such as Croatia does not have. The samples are then sent to a laboratory in Bremen, which is a significant financial burden for beekeepers, and for this reason they repeatedly addressed the need to establish a reference laboratory for quality analysis of honey in Croatia. Since there is currently no possibility of a scientifically justified method to determine the originality of a particular product or food, honey, olive oil, cheese, wine, prosciutto, at the Food Safety and Quality Centre for whose purpose it is established, and the holder is the Educational Institute for Public Health, scientific research will be conducted based on the collection of soil and water samples with the aim of establishing a map of isotopics, or for the purpose of determining the isotopic ratio of characteristic elements with the aim of producing an information base of Croatian indigenous and organic food products, thus achieving the preconditions for their identification on the domestic and foreign market. The results of this activity will be the production of a Croatian pollen atlas which will be an important tool in the analysis of honey and the prevention of honey fraud.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47313	Thank you. Mrs. Nikolic, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47314	Thank you, Vice President. Dear MPs Petir, as a representative in the European Parliament, encouraged our production from our fields, and therefore I am very surprised that you are now in favour of such a law that restricts the production of honey, where you do not support beekeepers and thus protects yourself, so it seems great economic damage to our beekeepers because what we indicate is that these commissioners appointed by the association of Croatian beekeepers cannot decide by their will who, when, how many of their hives can be placed on their own or on some other person's property.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47315	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47316	Thank you very much for the replica of my colleague Nikolic. This law does not in any way restrict beekeepers in their activities or restrict the production of honey. My efforts to support the beekeeping sector are generally known because my amendment, adopted at European level, introduces support for the bee community in the new common agricultural policy, not to mention how many groups of beekeepers from Croatia led to Brussels, represented their honey and even to Prince Albert of Monaco. Therefore, there is a rule on pasture order and no one alone can decide without the criteria of whether or not someone likes it but knows how to establish pasture order and what is the role of those involved in the process.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47317	Here you are, Mrs. Nikolic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47318	Article 238, and I'm already risking a warning, but I just have to point out that the regulation that Mrs. Petyr is calling is from 2008, and he's been brought down in the Constitutional Court, which means he's unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47319	Okay, but in 238, it's not about that, so I have to give a warning. Mrs. Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47320	You give us back the possibility of additional replicas so there won't be any need for disciplinary warnings because there is obviously a need for discussion outside this Regulation that should also be brought down in the Constitutional Court, and we hope that this will happen once. I would like to ask you how you comment on the fact that there is a unique register of domestic animals which is an existing database for breeders and owners of domestic animals, numbers and locations of domestic animals. So there's this register. And why, then, from the State budget of the Republic of Croatia, to allocate additional funds for bee and beekeeping, operational implementation of the pasture order and pasture commissioners because if we did not do so, we would use this register that we have to start with, we would save at least one million kuna a year, which is now being allocated to the benefit of the Croatian beekeeper's Union on the very name of that record which may appear within that existing register of domestic animals.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47321	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, Selak Rasdic. I totally agree with you in the Constitutional Court. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47322	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, now I have to relate to this debate about the Rules of Procedure, even though it wasn't my original intention. As far as I know, the Presidency of the Croatian Parliament has decided or made a decision and invited all clubs to propose an amendment to the existing Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament, as more clubs and more representatives have expressed their disagreement with certain provisions. And as far as I'm aware, it's at some stage of the procedure, so I guess your representatives of the club took part in that, too, so we'll see what kind of work we're going to get at the end and whether this new Rules of Procedure will allow us to have a different perhaps more constructive discussion where there's space for it, but also to remove those really unstructured debates and breaks that may be misused more than would be necessary. So now we're gonna have to since my time is up I'll talk to you later on about this subject. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47323	Otherwise, it's an interesting debate about domestic animals, isn't it?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47324	That's what you said, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47325	Mrs. Grba Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47326	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Assembly, colleague Petyr, I'm curious to know exactly what he said about the European Court of Auditors' findings, I didn't exactly follow it, it's not some area I'm dealing with, and I think there's some interesting things out there, at least that way, that's how I gathered some information. So would you briefly just say what it is?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47327	Here's your answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47328	Thank you to the beautiful representatives of Grba Bujević, so that otherwise the Court of Auditors reports are very interesting because it is an independent body which actually controls how EU finances are intended for a particular area and whether these measures in which we have invested financial resources have produced results. I had the opportunity to personally participate in a debate that, for example, was related to young farmers, where extremely high financial resources are allocated to help Generation of the village. In fact, the Court of Auditors concluded by analysing these measures that despite this great will and the high expenditure of the funds, we failed to achieve generation renewal because money is not enough yet needed to introduce some other instruments. The same thing is when we talk about pollinators. So we have certain measures that we have provided through the common agricultural policy and which we are giving right in that segment. In addition, environmental and climate aspects should be taken into account, and the impact of pesticides is clear And neoncotinoids on bees. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, time.]] So finance itself isn't enough if we don't change everyone's behavior.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47329	Thank you, thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mrs. Romana Nikolic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47330	Thank you, Vice President. Following the first reading of the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Breeding of Domestic Animals, there remained a series of open questions on the compatibility of this issue with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2016, the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU and the purpose of the draft law. The final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the amendment adds that the rules on the keeping of bees and the catastro of bees of pasha, which is itself contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, are left in force. The bee of pasha represents the source of honey. So, it's the herbs that are the essence of production and the source of procurement for the honey manufacturer. If the authorities of the citizens' association are to determine or the minister determine that producers will use the pasture, who will use the pasture and the number of hives, it is to limit and monitor production and thus divide the market's source of supply. Therefore, giving cited powers to one association of citizens or regulation by the minister is necessary if not for the purpose, then at least for the consequence of preventing, limiting or disrupting competition. According to the order of the Art. 9th paragraph 3. The rules, the Commissioner shall give the beekeeper consent to the accommodation of bee communities in the form set out in Annex 1 which is printed with this Regulation and shall be an integral part thereof. That agreement has its own decisions on the right to place its beekeepers on its own or other country. It is evident from the above that the Commissioner decides on someone’s right, in particular to place bees on a land. Although the Commissioner is not a state body or public authority, the right to equality of persons before the law of the Member State has been violated. Article 2 The Constitution. Let me explain. The beekeeper addresses the Commissioner to bring the bees to an area, submits requests, without any criteria, to an arbitrary commissioner, the beekeeper depends on obtaining consent. If he is not granted consent, he is not obliged to give an explanation or there is an appeal procedure for refusing the beekeeper. As beekeepers compete with other associations, the paste commissioner is like the protection of the pasture resources of a particular beekeeper association. No matter what resources prefer to fail, associations are ready to ban in their self-proclaimed area the arrival of beekeepers. So we have a situation that even the owner of the land cannot place the bees in his location because he was not given consent by a pastel commissioner. The regulation on the keeping of bees carried over by the ministry from the old law prescribed distances between roads, from neighbours, processing, tourist activities, stationed and moving beekeepers. When it comes to a stationed beekeeper, another beekeeper must be 500 metres away. What does that provision mean? For example. The owner of a plot 300 m away from the stationer who wants to have bees on the plot cannot keep his bees on it because the rule prescribes a minimum distance of 500 meters. This provision conflicts with the Property Act because the other owner is prohibited from using the parcel to keep the bees. In principle, the current Regulation on bee keeping, which was transferred from 2008, is absolutely illegal and unconstitutional. Furthermore, those provisions, the minister authorised the HPS to keep records of beekeepers and beekeepers and the Commissioner to collect records even though no domestic animal breeding law has given authority to authorise some other legal and physical persons to keep records of beekeepers and beekeepers nor to collect data for beekeepers and beesmen. The Regulation allows one association to collect data from non-members who are in a market competition with members of the association and not any such data but data that represent a business secret, such as production resources, the size of an economic operator, the number of beehives, locations, etc. Therefore, such authorisation under the Regulation constitutes an absolute violation of the right of an individual to a business secret. There is also a high probability and serious risk to the rights and obligations of individuals because the processing of these data can lead to discrimination and financial loss. The conductive neo-economicity of beekeeper and beekeeper records is evident. First, the beekeeper must provide data to the pastel commissioner, then the paste commissioner delivers data to the HPS, then the HPS delivers data to the ministry and finally these data are delivered to the unique register. There is no reason why a beekeeper would not directly submit data to a unique register of domestic animals in the manner that they were so far supplied by data in accordance with the regulations regulated by the register. How much longer do I have? Okay. The issue of bee hive migration and how to control where these hives are located at any time is very easy to resolve by making beekeepers bound to deliver these data electronically to an already existing base, all in the same way that other domestic animal breeders regularly supply a change in the number of livestock. The existing rule allows for lawlessness, arbitration, uncertainty, free discretionary assessment, therefore there is a legitimate concern that the proposed law will lead to a decline in agricultural production in beekeeping, which is due to the limit of the number of hives in one area, which is the reason why the law is being proposed. due to new administrative obligations, self-will of pastel commissioners, financial obligations... [[Intruder Reiner: Time.]] sanctions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47331	Thank you, ma'am. You've got a replica of Mrs. Nichol. Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47332	Dear MP Nikolic, you said that beekeepers will not be able to land their property, set up their bees, which is not true. We discussed this in detail yesterday on the Committee on Agriculture, and we asked for an indication of the Ministry's representative on the subject because such a question was raised among other things and it was denied since it was owned, so the Law on Property and other real rights, any beekeeper on his country can ask his beekeepers. And when it comes to bringing bees into another environment, then the rules on pasture are used and then access the procedure provided for.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47333	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47334	I thank you, counsel Petyr. Well, it's clear to me that we have a different interpretation of this law and regulations. As I said before, the 2008 rule is unconstitutional, and it needs to be urgently passed, and we can't pass the law and the rule hasn't even started making new ones yet, I'm told to the board that 2022. And as for the commissioners, he's given great powers, and it's unfounded, and he's definitely going to decide who, when and where he can set up his hive, and that's what's the key to the problem of it all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-29-0.u47335	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. And now it's another Green-left bloc representative club, finally, Mr. Tomislav Tomašević. He didn't show, he's gone. That's why I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. Tomorrow, Friday, April 30th, at 9:30 we continue with one item of the agenda, Proposal for a Law amending the Water Act. One but very valuable. Thank you. The session was interrupted at 16:27 p.m.
