ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u43120	Dear Vice President of HS, colleagues and colleagues. We Croats are an extremely divided people. For more than 20 years, we have been dividing ourselves to the left and to the right, dividing ourselves into Ustashas and Partisans, those who worship Marshal Tito and those who consider him the greatest criminal, those who love Dr. Franjo Tudjman and those who don't like him, but lately we've been sharing more and more with the vaccinated and unvaccinated. Unfortunately, this division was greatly contributed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Civil Protection Headquarters of the Republic of Croatia. In the last year and a half since Covid appeared in the Republic of Croatia, we have had hundreds of conflicting decisions by the Staff and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Let's just think of some. Masks don't serve in defense against Covid pandemics, they only have psychological meaning. Three months later, these same masks become mandatory in all closed spaces. Children should not hang out inside the school if they are in different classes. At the same time these same kids come to that same school on the same bus, all together, no matter what class they come from. All must adhere to the measures, so the Civil Protection Staff Chief, Minister Bozinovic, pictured in the Spaladium Arena without a mask on his face with more than 2,000 viewers and does not stick to the decision and measures he himself has prescribed. Prime Minister Plenkovic said on July 12th, there is no theoretical chance that vaccination will be mandatory. On July 13th, the day after he declares, we discuss mandatory vaccination for 3 sectors and then you wonder why there is a small cleavage. People don't believe you. You lost your citizens' trust because you don't manage the crisis well, you're not credible, you're making one statement today, tomorrow the second, the day after tomorrow the third. You don't stick to the decisions you make on your own. So the EU commission secured Croatia, thanks to the National Recovery Plan of nearly 50 billion kuna, 43 billion and did not condition it with a split. Why does the Government of the Republic of Croatia require support measures for vacated entrepreneurs. Why do you create the first and second classes of our citizens, vaccinated and unvaccinated? What are we going to do that hasn't been vaccinated yet? Are we gonna get the tape around our hands so we know we're not vaccinated? We're going to have a special sign, will you close our shopping malls for us for one? With these decisions, you create more than 50% of unvaccinated citizens with the decisions of the Staff and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You're creating a contrast. The only way to increase fissure is to set up a profession at the Civil Protection Centre, which is ideologically not colored, which does not belong to only one political option and that vaccination is only a profession, not politicians. It's the only way you can get better results. In this way, we are where we are, almost European at the beginning, as far as cleavage is concerned, but what is very important, don't separate people. Do not create the first and second classes of our fellow citizens, for we are all equal before the Constitution and before the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u43121	Thank you very much. With this I would like to conclude the 7th session of the Croatian Parliament and, as the president said, I wish you a pleasant summer and to return with full force to work once this constitutional.../incomprehensible..., constitutional term to start working. I am convinced that during this period we will all work hard. Thank you very much. Goodbye. Session completed at 1200 hours. Now, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, Commissioner Majda Buric will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u43317	... Thank you, Honorable Vice President of HS, Honorable MPs and MPs. [[Specially enabled.]] Because today is the day when the payment of the so-called payment begins. Covid supplement and that for pensioners who, in addition to their pension in the Republic of Croatia, receive and retire from abroad, I will talk about the situation of Croatian pensioners and the results that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has achieved in the last four and a half years on this plan, and on the basis of the facts alone, I will talk about these two topics. First of all, I stress that in 4.5 years of Prime Minister Plenkovic's term, all pensions grew by almost 14%, pensions for those receiving the lowest pension, increased by more than 17%, compared to the entire SDP's term of office of '11. Until '15. The years of retirement grew only 4.6%. In the HDZ's term of office, pensions were not questionable at any time, they arrived on time, were regularly increased and paid. When we talk about the observed periods that I mentioned earlier, there have been global crises, the global economic crisis and now the global health crisis. However, different models of crisis management have proved truly who knows and who doesn't. The figures are indeed irrefutable, as are the results, while the government is in office since '11. Until '15. It has achieved a flood of unemployment of as many as 400 thousand unemployed workers in the Stock Exchange and despite the existence of measures to preserve jobs that were never activated at the time, however, it has been consumed only 4000 times in 4 years of office, unlike this Government, when the job conservation measure has been consumed by more than 700 thousand workers. So much in fact about two governance models, namely the strategic management of the crisis of Prime Minister Plenkovic, which has indeed stood behind every worker and every employer and thus preserved thousands and thousands of jobs, as well as entrepreneurs. Why am I saying that? Because the stability of the pension system is also safeguarded by jobs, and we must never forget that. Conscious of the difficult situation of Croatian pensioners, the government of Prime Minister Plenkovic has provided additional funding for the payment of so-called "Plenkovic". Covid addendum to all pensioners who receive a pension below 4 thousand kuna, who have a residence in the Republic of Croatia and who are not employed. The addendum includes about 710 thousand pensioners. I stress, this is a reception intended exclusively for pensioners, not for all elderly people, and that is exclusively for those who have a residence in the Republic of Croatia. It is, therefore, a one-time monetary income due to the mitigation of the consequences of Covid, so or already, pensioners who have up to 1500 kuna pensions will receive an allowance of 1200 kuna, almost double. Those who have a pension of 1500 to 2000 tuna will receive 900 kuna, from 2 to 3 thousand 600 kuna and between 3 and 4 thousand kuna, they receive 400 kuna Covid supplement. So those who have a smaller pension will get a bigger, higher amount of Covid supplement. The payment of this income for those who have only a Croatian pension, was paid 30.4. this year for 652 000 persons, and as regards categories that also receive pensions from Croatia and parts from abroad, they had until 30.6. to provide proof to the Croatian Pension Insurance Office or Croatian Pension Insurance Office that both pensions do not exceed 4 thousand kuna. The payment of this supplement is now starting for 57.5 thousand users. It is very important to say that this supplement is not taxable, it cannot be subject to enforcement and will not be included on the income price for the exemption from paying the premium of supplementary health insurance. What does that mean? This means that it will not happen that the pensioner, due to an allowance that will be paid to him, must pay additional health insurance because then the supplement does not enter the censorship.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u43318	Thank you. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 11.42 HOURS]] This, we move on and now we have a position on behalf of representatives clubs and independent representatives and on behalf of the Club of Representatives of MOST, will be the first to speak to the respected representative Marin Miletic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u43417	... A respected colleague from HDZ and a respected colleague from the Homeland Movement. ... [[Last-on speaker]] Sovereigns, here we are, interesting. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Two things. First, stop making divisions in Croatian society. Secondly, the vaccine is not the Holy Grail. Prime Minister Plenkovic in a very demanding time for our society to share the Croatian people. When Plenkovic says we have 46% of reasonable people, which means that the other 54% are unreasonable, that we remain unreasonable, that we have reasonable and unreasonable citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It is unacceptable to communicate so in Croatian society, and I cannot accept, in particular, that this is how the prime minister, the prime minister of our country communicates. It's not right, we can't call people, and in the end he doesn't even have a qualification to talk about who's reasonable, who's unreasonable. The prime minister should not be blackmailed, the prime minister should be more concerned with the cry of the Croatian people than with the whispers and with the dark whispers of the Brussels power in the halls. The prime minister says that he is 2+2, I would like to say that analogy is not responding because something logical to him does not necessarily mean that it is necessary for other citizens. Voluntaryness must be the cornerstone of everything, and I therefore welcome the Commission of the Croatian Bishop's Conference "Justice et pax" which calls on the ruling not to force citizens to be vaccinated unless the citizens want it. I quote, pressures must be avoided that would question the freedom of citizens and volunteering. If a person does not want to be vaccinated, it can be possible to give him a test that will guarantee that he is contagious to others and does not pose a risk to the health of others. I continue to quote, on politics and on society as a whole, how to find a balance between the personal right to volunteer and the answer to my own conscience that it does not endanger the health of others. Any kind of pressure isn't good. The pressure is always counterproductive to the "Justice et pax" commission of the Croatian Bishop's Conference. I want to hear the Prime Minister call for caution, saying it's important to protect all the risk groups, our sick, our old, powerless, where we have the highest death rate than the total 0.15%. The panic with the infected cannot be the reason for the introduction of a mandatory vaccine, nor the creation of a catastrophic paradigm, our focus must cease to be on the number of infected. It turns out that we can't ask anything, that we shouldn't be critical, that we're immediately difamy, that we're being declared indiscreet, as if the vaccine is the Holy Grail. Here's your information from today, today. Israel. Of all the new 700 infected 50% were vaccinated, and of the patients who developed a severe disease among these newly infected people 60% were vaccinated. That's information from today. I want to say, political discourse must also begin to discuss the effectiveness of the situation. Turns out they're just making sure some of them spend vaccines on the lager, so something doesn't go away. It is obvious that many countries have a vaccine with a deadline, so now the Croatian people are smoking, and the Croatian people, at least my opinion, do not trust the headquarters and therefore I call on the prime minister to scrutinise. I'm not going to deal with questions if we as a state have any additional conditions for the pharmaceutical industry, I'm not going to be concerned about whether someone upstairs in Brussels is closing the pipe if we don't split as many people as possible. Those questions should be dealt with. But I want the prime minister in our small Croatia not to sow seeds of discord. We don't have to get along, but we should love that Croatian people at least as much as everyone, not to throw away the seeds of discord. So how can you say, man, 55% of Croatian citizens aren't reasonable, so how can you tell the Prime Minister? Well it's not right, it's not Christian, it's not ethical, it's not human. Well, I wouldn't say that about some colleagues you wouldn't agree with in anything, in nothing, in nothing, so you do, let's be reasonable. The Council of Europe resolution said in two articles that citizens should be assured that they are not forced to vaccinate if they do not wish to be vaccinated, that no one should be discriminated against. MOST suggested it in HS and it's important to say that the complete left SDP, we can! and that agenda either did not vote or were abstentions and that is a clear message. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u43418	Thank you very much. Here I have seen the elevated record of a respected representative and vice president of this high house of Miroslav Skora, in which is the injured Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u43419	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'll risk my last day's notice since it's an art class. The 238 was about logic. Col. Miletic did not mention one contradiction that exists all the time. It's on one side, so it's not mandatory vaccination, it's not mandatory vaccination, you can choose it, but it'll be mandatory to be vaccinated if you want to attend certain events I don't know about or be this employee somewhere. So that contradiction is kind of interesting and you hurt the Rules of Procedure because you didn't mention it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u43420	Comrade Skoro, you know for a fact that I have to give you a warning like I was aware when I reported this one wrongly for the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u44594	Good morning, esteemed MPs and respected MPs. I'd like to ask your attention, because we're starting with a vote. First item Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the start of the stay of MP Rada Boric's mandate and the start of acting as deputy deputy deputy representative Ivana Kekin. The debate is closed, so I am voting on the motion for a decision to start the stay of MP Rada Boric's mandate and start acting as deputy deputy representative Ivana Kekin. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I find that 124 MPs and MPs have all voted in favour, so we unanimously made a decision as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. After we've made this decision, we're now moving on to making an oath from the MP to the art. Seven. The Rules of Procedure have been established that the President read the text of the oath, after which the representative is named, the appointed representative stands up and pronounces the word I swear. I will now read the text of the oath: "I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work, that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal ancestor and that I will stand up for all progress of the Republic of Croatia." Ivana Kekin. Congratulations to the new representative, and I wish her a lot of success in her work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u44597	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u46632	And the last item for today's vote, the election, appointment and resolution is the proposing committee for selection, appointment and administrative affairs, the debate is closed. I suggest, if you agree to a united vote on all five proposed decisions. Thank you. I am voting on proposal 5 of the decisions proposed by the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find it unanimous, 116 decisions have been made as proposed by the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs. Now we're going to give a five-minute break after which we'll hear the views of clubs and independent representatives, and I welcome you all, I wish you good health, on the front row and I want to see you on constitutional deadlines. If there's a need, of course, there's going to be an extraordinary session, so far there's no sign, but you never know. I wish everyone well. It's 11:00.41. Report on the work of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities for 2020 The applicant is the Ombudsman for people with disabilities, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: ‘1. Report on the work of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities for 2020 is hereby accepted." Who is in favour? Who's restrained? Who's against it? A unanimous 119 votes in favour of the conclusion that it was proposed by the home working body.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u54147	Here I am looking for a break on behalf of the HSS Club and the Workers' Front. We think it's important to say something more about this law. In fact, many laws in this House have recently introduced the practice of legalizing lawlessness. Here we have practice that something that used to be in the authority of the Institute of Arts and Professional Rehabilitation, the status of HRVI, is being transferred as a practice and as the responsibility of the Ministry or Minister of the Medveda. My colleagues and colleagues would literally mean this way, if someone came to Minister Medveda after 25 years and asked him if I could become HRVI, could you arrange it for me would be a corruption practice, but if it were mutilated that Minister Medved had the right to say who the Croatian War Disabilities Service is, and not with the argument that the Office of Arts has been implementing this process too long and too complicatedly, then it's not corruption, it's the law. We have already passed a series of such laws here, one of them is also the Law on the University of Defence and Security where it is literally stated that no accreditation procedure is required for all other universities, for this university there is no accreditation procedure, there is a series of such laws, this is just one example. When I was in Podravka the other day, the workers asked me how it was possible to have 4,000 kunas, and our management pays a bonus of 15 million kuna, it was won over 100 million kunas in the first quarter, isn't there some law that simply decrees that we have to have bigger salaries, and the company is doing well. Well, it's not just about the corruption we see on TV. And what's really called corruption, this is legalized corruption. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u54148	Thank you very much. The apartment is approved. Is anyone else picking up? But I'll help myself. 293.b so that we do not leave the hall but will join the vote on amendments. The first amendment of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, the government does not accept it. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't get enough votes. Amendment No. Two of the same club representatives, the government doesn't accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? Nor did this amendment receive a sufficient number of votes. The amendment of Representative Josip Djakic is invalid because it does not comply with the article. 196. We won't even vote on him. Now let's go to the amendments to the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives, Amendment 1, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. 2. The same club the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 3. Again, the same club is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 4. The same club of representatives and the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 5. Again, the Green-left bloc's club does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 6 of the same club the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 7. The same club the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 8. Green-left bloc representatives' club is not accepting again. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 9 of the same club the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 10th Amendment again is not accepted by the Green-Left bloc's advocates club. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 11. The same club the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 12th amendment again does not accept the same club of representatives by the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Now we're going to the amendments to Parliament's Katarina Peovic, three amendments, four amendments, the government doesn't accept any of them. Amendment 1. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 2. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 3 of the same agent. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. And the last amendment to MP Peovic. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. We will now vote on the law, I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I find that 129 MPs and MPs, 91 for, 30 abstentions and 8 against, have voted, and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families has been passed. It is now up to the Final Proposal of the Law on Civil Victims of the Homeland War, second reading, P.Z. No. 92. The promoter is a government. The debate is closed. Before we vote on the amendments, I see several hands in the air, so requests for a break, first order of business, Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u54519	Thank you very much. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the 10-minute Most Club. The Civil Victims Act of the Homeland War should have been passed long ago. The first amendment I gave to HS was the withdrawal of funds from former President Stipe Mesic's office, 600,000 kunas for civilian victims' associations in the Homeland War. However, this law was to be passed long ago. Since the beginning of the Homeland War, I have given the amendment to the article. 5. We commit the government and the Ministry of Defence to release the registry of the aggressors to the Republic of Croatia. Those who worked for the Serbs, and those who worked in public institutions, institutions, police, those who worked against the interests of the Republic of Croatia. On these amendments, colleagues and colleagues, we will now vote. Accept these amendments so we don't equate the victim and the aggressor. Civilian victims in the Homeland War, no matter what nation, no matter which side they were from, no matter whose grenades they were injured, deserve all rights. And that's our obligation, but that the Chetniks and the occupiers are getting through because we don't have the defense register, oh, the register, the pardon, the register of occupiers and the aggressors who are responsible for all this. We, as a Parliament, must make a decision that Serbia will pay us war damage when Croatian governments have done nothing. All those who participated in the Homeland War and all who were born at the time, all those who lived in Zagreb, who were killed by grenades, who were all over Croatia, are not guilty. On one hand or on the other, was a Serb, was a Croat, if he was a civilian. He deserves it. But not the Chetniks and the Occupiers. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] That's why I won't support it either, this amendment. [[Thank you. Thank you. Thanks, buddy Bull.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u54520	The apartment has been approved, the second is a colleague of Sacic's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u54521	We're looking for a break on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club. We believe that this Final Proposal of the Law on Civil Victims of the Homeland War is better quality than the first version because you have observed part of the amendment of Croatian sovereigns in art. 5th century 1st where you have closed the door not only to the abolized Chetniks but also to all who have participated in any other way in the aggression against the Republic of Croatia, but remains a series of doubts which will now be declared through the amendments made, and the most important thing is that this Law on Civil Victims of the Homeland War puts the entire burden on the backs of Croatian taxpayers, Croatian peoples, victims of aggression, the large Serb aggressor has so far not paid the kuna, as damages to the Republic of Serbia, the civilian victims of the Homeland War must be compensated, we as a society have done since '92. Sir, there are laws, in this way, a proposal, as you said, in an unoccupied part, that the civilian victims will exercise their rights even better. We also believe that those who are innocent victims, collateral Serbian aggression, should be compensated, but at the expense of the funds that R. Serbia will pay for the payment of war damage.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u54522	And this party has been approved, Comrade Pracchin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u54523	Thank you, Mr. President, on behalf of the Homeland Movement Club, but first I would like to speak to my colleague Djakic. Why that stylish and poetic figure yesterday for polemics with my colleague Mlinaric? It's not for an apology, so it's a knife in the heart. That makes me, that makes me, so to ask you how your war route is, are you at all, as a colleague of Mlinarić, to end up where he ended up? Otherwise, this point, on the civilian victims of the Homeland War, is the most remarkable point of the last two weeks of debate. And the most energy was invested in it, and I was pleased to follow it myself, but for me there was a much more significant topic, but unfortunately we didn't open it properly. We should have truly opened the topic of changing the director of Croatian television and appointing the new director of Croatian television. We have replaced the man, or we will replace him and shut him down for thieving purposes, and in fact he should have responded because of the high treason policy of Croatian television, which is not really a recipe and the invention of the current Bačić, but it has existed on Croatian television for 20 years, only now it has reached its peak. By law and by logic and by common sense, Croatian television should protect Croatian national interests, it does not. Croatian television enables space for enemies of Croatia, and when historical topics are at stake, then three traitors, Goldstein, Klasic, Jakovina, have the right to speak as they please and as they wish, and one Igor Vukic who went to Belgrade and impressed Belgrade with the logic of what he said, cannot get the right and space on Croatian television, it cannot be obtained by a serious historian, Stjepan Lozo, but therefore, on Croatian television, politics as it is led And that was supposed to be a dominant topic. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] that is, the debate in this House. [[Thank you. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u54524	Thank you very much. She's been granted a break. Now it's my friend Jeck's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u54525	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, I request a two-minute recess, in order to consult once again on the Law on Civil Victims of War. Many call this Law the so - called So - called Law. The law of Draganin or Miloradov and we really must consult once more whether he is Draganin or Miloradov. Namely, if he did, he'd look... Different. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How else? So that this law would cover families of violently taken people in Vukovar just before the war broke out, would be covered by all those families, civilian victims who were in numerous columns that occurred during the Homeland War and would be covered by those civilian victims who were in camps throughout the Republic of Croatia. It is precisely because of the above, that we once again at the Club, that we must consult on how we will vote on this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u54526	And this break has been approved. She has now caused three injuries to the Rules of Procedure, her first colleague is Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u54527	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, 238. It is incomprehensible to me that the Government of the Republic of Croatia could at all offer a law at one stage that allowed the abolised Chetniks to be given some financial compensation because they were killed in an aggression against the Republic of Croatia. I am glad that this possibility has been rejected, and this first bill can really be called the Pupovec Law. And I'm glad that first version won't go away. [[The Intruder President: Thank you, dear colleague Zekanovic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u54528	You know you didn't do any damage to the Rules of Procedure, you did, so since it was a violation of the Rules of Procedure, I'm giving you a warning. Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u54529	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure The 238th of a colleague is that when we talk about civilian victims, we can't share them in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia, but we need to know that all these victims were caused by great Serb Chetnic aggression. This is the cause, the Homeland War is the consequence, even this law was called the Civil Victims Act of Greater Serbian Aggression And that's the problem. [[The Intruder President: Thank you, dear colleague Bulj.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u54530	Comrade Bulj, you know for a fact that you didn't do any damage to the Rules of Procedure, but you've replicated it, too, so I've got to give the Rules of Procedure a warning here, too. Comrade Mlinarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u54531	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. 238, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Dragana Jeckov first consult at the SDSS club, but not two minutes longer, who is the aggressor and who has been the victim since '91. until '95. Did your Deputy Prime Minister Milosevic not give an answer to my express question? So you have doubts here. First you deal with it yourself, even though I know who the aggressor is for you. And secondly, the war in Vukovar began with the 2.5th massacre in Borovo Selo 12 Croatian police officers since the war began, there is nothing There's nothing... before the war it's... [[Intruder President: Thank you, dear colleague Mlinaric.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u54532	So this is also a replica I'm not going to go into content, but you're replicating you're not doing any damage to the Rules of Procedure and I have to give a warning. Now it's time for my colleague Pavlichek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u54533	The violation of Rules of Procedure of 238 counterpart Dragana Jeckov forgot to mention that the leading association of Croatian Serbs, the Serbian National Council, gave consent to this law, and we all know that the leaders of the SDSS are both leaders of both the Serbian people and the SNB, this is the first. As for the so-called so-called. The civilian victims of war in Vukovar during the 5th and 6th months I'll tell you as the Vukovar that the civilians are concerned about, o so-called. The civilians who are in their basements Collecting weapons, were [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] The speakers speak at the same time... and that there was no Tomislav Mercep.../The speakers speak at the same time./... [[Break president: Thank you, colleague Pavliček.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u54534	You're misusing the breach of the Rules of Procedure, this was all the part that should have been used through the debate we had when this law was. So what you're doing right now is classic violations of the Rules of Procedure and you're also getting a warning. My colleague Jackov, here you go. You give up, thank you very much. Now it's time to explain my colleague Djakic's break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u54535	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS. So the HDZ Club is also looking for a break to repeat once again what the Civil Victims Act says, as explicitly states in the article. 5, and in other articles that explain which documentation should be kept. Doubts about who is a traitor of national interest, doubts about who is a pirate in this regard of lawmaking, doubts about where who was who and what he was doing, clearly that they can only be doubts. So are the doubts of all those who interpret today that this law is passing to someone. It seems to me that he best recognized his colleague Sacic as a member. 5. all defined and resolved, and the documents that need to be prepared in order to exercise the right under this law are clearly defined what it is necessary to do. All the other meals, all the other troubles, all the other lies and my personal name, the question of my war trip, thank God I've twice wounded here I survived alone. My mission was where some fled, my vision and victory throughout the Homeland War was both in Light and in Summer and in Storm and in Maestro. I don't need to be asked all of this on pages. Don't be mistaken that I'm afraid of your lunches, you must probably be afraid of some of your own things that will come out of sight and fellow General Pracchin and others.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u54536	Okay, and this break is approved, but in accordance with the article. 239.b We will not leave the Rules of Procedure, but we will proceed with the vote on amendments. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u54537	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Because of the importance of the law, and because of the measures we have here in the House, I would ask on behalf of the Mosto Club to vote individually, to know who voted because otherwise we don't have anyone on the council's pages who voted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u54538	I have to consult it now to see what the possibilities are and what we're going to do about it, but let's go with the amendments first. First is Amendment No. 1 The House Movement Representatives Club, the Government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? 99 MPs and MPs voted, the amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. 2 Green-left bloc representatives' club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Now my colleague Bukarica has shown me that we no longer have a name vote in the Rules of Procedure, so that article has been deleted by the last changes so that we will vote We'll check through the clubs later, I think there's an open question, and then we'll do that after we finish this session at the summer stop, so we have a lot of questions about how the MP voted. [[Intruder Bulj: But if you can just because of the measures to know about the law, you don't know who's going to vote for the aggressor now, and who's going to object to seeing.]] We currently do not have technical conditions to regulate it, because there are no electronic devices outside the HS hall and it costs a lot, it must be clear to you all to do so now. But we'll see that through the clubs, we have a record of who voted how, so that we can give the public an individual indication of how anyone pleaded on what law. So, that's some idea for me, and I see that we're going, and we'll probably go that way. My friend Bulj, no, we can't talk about this anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u54539	Well, just because you don't know, because of the importance of this law that you don't know, I think it would tribal.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u54540	Comrade Bull, wait a minute, I beg you. Therefore, it is possible to find out how who voted because there will be records of how any representative voted. And at the request of journalists, any club of MPs can provide information as the club's representatives voted. I don't know what's going on here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u54541	It's less important for the press, it's important for the public and for the history of knowing who voted for this. This is an eclectic example of how we treat our voters and our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u54542	Here's my colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u54543	Mr. President, let me help you with this. We in the local hall have cameras and I suggest that after the vote on this point you personally assign the professional service of the club, the professional service of the assembly to this law, I hope that there is no such desire for others, but if there is only one, then it will be easy to get rid of it, to list how the MP voted. That's not some...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u54544	You got it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u54545	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u54546	You got it. I think it's correct and that way we'll remove this dilemma, so I'm asking professional services to be more careful about voting, so maybe a little longer, but to individually check who voted so that we have a clear record. And I ask all of you together to consider, so after the summer break, how to have a precise record of who voted on the individual law. We're going to the third amendment now, it's a fellow Sacic, the government doesn't accept him. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The 4th Amendment of the National Movement Representatives Club is not accepted by the Government. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 5. Amendment The Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, who is in favour, is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 6. Green-left bloc representatives' club is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 7th Amendment of MP Vesna Nadj's Government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 8. The National Movement's club is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 9th and No. The 10th are identical, it is the amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most and Representatives of Bulj, the government does not accept it, so we vote on two amendments unitedly. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 11th Amendment, MP Zeljko Sacic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. We now have three identical amendments to the representative of Marija Selak Rasdic, representative of Nina Rasdic, representative of Mira Bulja, 12,. 13th and 14, the government doesn't accept them, so we vote unitedly. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendments did not receive the required number of votes. The 15th amendment of the Green-Left bloc advocates club is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 16th Amendment of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives does not accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 17th Amendment, MP Zeljko Sacic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 18th Amendment of MP Vesna Nadj's government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 19. Green-left bloc representatives' club doesn't accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 20th Amendment of the National Movement Representatives Club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 21st Amendment of the same club of MPs, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 22nd amendment again is not accepted by the House of Homeland Movement Representatives' Club. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 23rd amendment again is not accepted by the House's Attorneys' Club, once again by the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 24th Amendment of the same club of representatives, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 25th Amendment again is not accepted by the National Movement Representatives' Club. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 26th Amendment Green-left bloc advocates' club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 27th Amendment of the National Movement Representatives Club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 28th Amendment of the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club, the government does not accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 29th Amendment of the same club of MPs, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 30th Amendment Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 31st Amendment MP Zeljko Sacic, the government does not accept him. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 32nd Amendment of MP Vesna Nadj, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 33rd amendment of the Green-left bloc advocate club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 34th Amendment of the National Movements' Club of Representatives, the government does not accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 35th Amendment of the National Movements' Club of Representatives, the government does not accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 36th Amendment, MP Zeljko Sacic, is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 37th Amendment of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives, the government does not accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 38th Amendment, MP Zeljko Sacic, is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 39 of MPs by Željko Sacic has been withdrawn, we should not vote on him. The 40th Amendment of the same representative, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 41st amendment of the Legislative Committee has been adopted and becomes an integral part of the bill. Amendment 42 representatives of Zeljko Sacic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 43rd amendment of the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club, the government does not accept. The last 44 amendments by MP Zeljko Sacic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The latest amendment of the House Movement Representatives Club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. I am now voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Civil Victims of the Homeland War. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? It voted 128 MPs and advocates, 107 for, 5 abstentions and 16 against and thus passed the Civil Victims Act of the Homeland War. I'd like to ask the parliamentary services if we have an exact record that will be available immediately after the vote and thank my colleague, Bauku, for his engagement. We are now going to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 147. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendment has been submitted by the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives, the amendment has been declared earlier, the motioner has not accepted the amendment, so let's go to the vote with the fact that this law requires half the majority of all MPs in accordance with Article. 252. The Rules of Procedure of HS. I'm putting it to the vote... And we have to apologize, we have to vote on that amendment yes. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let's postpone, and then, here's the vote the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Well, before we go to the vote on the law, my colleague Puljak is looking for a break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u54723	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Club to warn of one detail in this law, so first of all, we welcome the amendments to the laws that lead to persecution under official duty for the criminal act of sexual violence. However, here we all seem to have missed something together, as well as the government in this law. Namely, art. The 13th proposal introduces a new Article. 144.a. abuse of video of sexually explicit content, which we certainly support, however, in Article 4 of the new article is intended to be a crime of art. The 144th is persecuting as proposed. As part of the debate, no amendment to such content has been proposed, we have sent 20 MPs to sign the proposal and instructed the government to propose an amendment on its part, however, they did not do so. In fact, we think it's a crime that happens in the so-called so-called crime. virtual space fully corresponds to the criminal acts of Chapter 16 of the KZ, so crimes against sexual freedom, which are being prosecuted by this amendment to the law in full by official duty, which we also support. Therefore, we believe that the application of persecution by official duty and, in the case of this article, is justified for the same reasons that also cases in Chapter 16 are being prosecuted by official duty. So here we draw attention to the Government that in the next changes to the KZ, this is certainly a criminal offence to be prosecuted by official duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u54724	Stanka's approved, but I'm going to apply for an article. 293.b so we will proceed with the vote. And I am now voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code, which requires a semi-half majority, therefore 76. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I find that a unanimous 124 votes in favour of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code. Final proposal of the Act supplementing the Law on protection against domestic violence, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 153. The promoter is the Government, the debate is closed, so I am voting on the final proposal for a law supplementing the law on protection against domestic violence. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 125 votes for, therefore, unanimously passed the Act supplementing the Law on protection against domestic violence.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u56114	Mr. President, I believe you'll give me a warning, but I can't say that. I look forward to my colleague, Bauk, to give the same conclusion that we should look back on the situation when Mr. Radman, the SDP man at the head of the HRT, replaced Mr. Radman in one day more than 40 editors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u56115	Okay. The question is interesting, but you'll get a warning because it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I have to comply with the rules, and I'm sure my colleague Bauk will find an answer to that question. So, let's go to the motion for a decision on the election of the deputy attorney general. She's the lawyer's mother-in-law's mother-in-law. The debate is closed. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Diana Keson, Saša Rajic and Tatjana Vlasic as deputy attorney general. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 113 MPs and deputies, 107 for and 6 abstentions, have voted, and a decision has been taken as proposed by the attorney general. On the basis of Art. 13. The Attorney General's Attorney-General's office before taking office as Deputy Attorney General, the deputy attorney general's office, swears an oath before HS. The oath shall be given in a way that the chairperson shall read the text of the oath, the Deputy Advocate shall rise up and pronounce the word ‘I swear’. The text of the oath reads: I swear that in my work I will stick to the constitution and the law and respect the legal order of the Republic of Croatia and that I will exercise my duty in a fair, honorable and conscientious manner in the best interests of the citizens. Diane Keson.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u56117	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u56118	Sasa Rajic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u56119	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u56120	And Tatjana Vlasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u56121	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u56122	Congratulations to the newly elected deputy attorney general and I want them to carry out their new duties successfully. ... [[Applause]] Final draft law amending and supplementing the Voluntary Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 127, the motion is Government, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the SDP MPs' club and the Green-left bloc representatives' club. We have made a statement earlier, and now we will vote on amendments that the Proposer does not accept. So we have 1 amendment to the SDP's Club of Representatives, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. We are now going to the amendments to the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, there are 4 of them, and all 4 of them are not accepted by the government, so we vote on the first. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 2. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 3. Amendment of the same club of representatives, as I said, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. And last, the Fourth Amendment of the same club of MPs. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? Nor did this amendment receive the required number of votes. I am now voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Voluntary Law. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? Unanimously, 121 votes for, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Volunteering was passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u56751	Dear President of the Parliament. I'm not asking for a break. I'm asking to explain the conclusion because he wasn't in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u56752	That can't be done, that's not in line with the Rules of Procedure. .../Speakers speak at the same time./... My colleague Selak Rasudiæ I ask you to sit down, it is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and it cannot be done. The request was filed an hour before the vote, you know that you have the right, it's an agreement with the presidency, but it can't be explained at the session when we vote. So, I'll read the text of the conclusion you suggested. ‘1. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to take into account the Council of Europe Resolution of 27 January 2021 when making decisions concerning vaccination against covid-19 disease. under the heading "Covid-19 vaccines". Ethical, legal and practical considerations which, with the exception of that, have been established that it is necessary to ensure that citizens are informed that vaccination is not mandatory and that no one is exerting political, social or other pressure to vaccinate, unless they want to ensure that no one is discriminated against for not being vaccinated because of possible health risks or do not wish to be vaccinated. 2. The Republic of Croatia considers it a priority to ensure quality and available healthcare for all, but starting with the basic principles of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia." I am voting on the proposed conclusion. Here you go, fellow Selak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u56753	In view of the sensitivity of this topic, which is of high interest to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, I am also asking that the results of the individual vote on this Council of Europe resolution proposed by this conclusion be made available, if it could be adopted earlier, I think it can also be accepted in this case when it comes to vaccination.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u56754	Okay, so I'm going to ask the Assembly to pay extra attention to how anyone voted on this Bridge conclusion. I am now voting the proposed conclusion. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 111 MPs and MPs voted, 12 were in favour, 21 abstentions and 78 were against, so the proposed conclusion was not accepted. Proposal for a decision to resolve the HRT Director-General. The promoter is the Committee on Information, Information and Media, the debate is closed, so just before we go to the vote, I see we have a request for a break, a respected colleague of Urša Raukar-Gamulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u56948	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament, for asking for a break on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives in order to point out once again that HDZ missed the replacement of Kazimir Bačić for the prosecution of journalists, resulting in material damage to HRT, then because of the inaction in the event of sexual harassment, then due to the poor programme, which testifies to the decline of ratings, then because of censorship, retaliation of 50,000 euros in Zagreb-walking bags, are just cake cream. For all of these reasons, the head director of HRT should have been removed long ago, this HDZ is not. So HDZ didn't do it, but that wasn't enough for you either. In front of us is the proposal to appoint Mr. Renato Kunić as HRT VD, and he is the first associate of such director and guarantee of the continuity of such management and management of public television that produces further devastion of HRT. In addition, Mr. Kunić and the godfather of the Culture Minister, who herself says, while I am a minister, although I have no influence in any way, it would be bad to run. Why the HDZ does not listen to its culture minister but insists on such a compromised man as the performer of duty. Of course, we're looking for a break to give HDZ time to think and change this harmful decision for HRT.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u56949	Stanka has been approved, but there is also a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a colleague of Ivanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u56950	... He's been injured. 238, a distinguished representative may have the least right to talk about what lies say. [[Specially enabled.]] [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The only real truth is that immediately after this vote, the Supervisory Board will call for a new director of HRT, the Media Committee will speak with candidates and immediately propose the name of the new candidate for director or director of HRT at the first session in the autumn section.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u56951	You said all that nicely, but you hurt the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning because it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Is anyone else picking up? If not, then we'll go to the vote. I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of Kazimir Bačić from the post of Director-General of Croatian Television. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 118 MPs and MPs voted, 116 for and 2 were against, so that a decision was taken as proposed by the Committee on Information, Information and Media. The proposal for a Decision on the appointment of the director-in-chief of Croatian Radio Television, is now being proposed by the Committee on Information, Information and Media, the debate is closed. I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision appointing Renat Kunić as acting director of Croatian Radio Television. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 121 MPs and MPs, 77 for, 2 abstentions, 42 against, so that a decision has been taken as proposed by the Committee on Information, Information and Media. Representative Arsen Bauk proposes the adoption of the next conclusion. Before I read it, I assume you're looking for a break. The SDP hasn't had a break yet, so you can.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u57145	Have you noticed, Mr. President, that the SDP has not yet asked for a break, but at this point I am not asking for a break, nor am I asking to explain the proposal, but I am interested in showing the applicant on my proposal for a conclusion, and then, depending on the position of the promoter, we will assess whether we should seek a break or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u57146	Have a seat, fellow MP, since this proposal came this morning, we have no position. that you seek so that the Parliament will vote without a stand. [[Okay, Mr. President.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u57147	Then you help me with your vote, and I'll figure out how the ruling majority will vote. Here, you can give me back a favor for what I helped you with that vote. [[Intruder: Just...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u57148	As I call on the service to concentrate when it counts, so now I invite you to concentrate on my point and you will see how I vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u57149	Okay. I will then, on behalf of the SDP Club, ask for a break, although it would be easier to discuss how the parliamentary majority, or its largest party, would vote, which was also proposed by the director, Mr Bacic. So, as we all know from history, in 4.5.1980, he died for some of the greatest statesmen, and for some others, the greatest criminal, and for one part, something in between, you know, the nomenclature that was then laid out was one parole that we all remember, and it was "After Tito, Tito". Now, one of Mr. Bačić's legacy at the head of HRT, we'll remember it, of course, according to this T as a "bag", but it has its own T2. Charges. HRT sued a number of individuals, I think there were 36 in total, and there were four more lawsuits left, against, making journalists or the Croatian Journalist Society a violation of reputation. Now, if they were carrying bribery bags, they'd certainly have violated HRT's reputation, if they'd called her "Yutel" on that path. We heard that, he didn't get a lawsuit. Today we also heard that the traitors, from Mr. Prickin, have heard a lot in political life, but the administration has not decided to sue them, but only its employees. So it's a classic experience against journalists and their employees about trying to put out internal criticism about the choking of media freedom, which is why we're at the bottom of the EU's media freedom charts. Voting for this conclusion and calling on the Director to withdraw these charges would be a drop in the sea to move a little bit better, and therefore I call on the MPs to remove that shame and improve the reputation of HRT by voting for this one. Mr. President, I'll watch you vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-15-0.u57150	Thank you, Comrade Bauk. So, I'll read the text of the proposal of my colleague Bauk's conclusion. The HRT chief director's post is called upon to withdraw on behalf of HRT the charges brought against the HRT journalist, and for allegedly violating HRT's reputation, Chief Director Kazimir Bacic submitted. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 120 MPs and MPs, 44 for, 2 abstentions and 74 against, have voted, so the proposed conclusion has not been reached. Final proposal of the Waste Management Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 132. The promoter is a government. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by MP Josip Djakic, the HDZ Representatives' Club, the IDS Representatives' Club, Sanja Udovic's representative and SDP's Club of Representatives. The review has been sent to you by electronic means, we have made a statement, we are voting now on amendments that the applicant does not accept. 1. is representative Sanja Udovic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 2. The HDZ advocates' club has been accepted, so it becomes part of the final bill. Amendment No. 3. The SDP representative club has been withdrawn, we don't have to vote. Amendment No. 4. The IDS representative club is not accepted by the government, we must vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The same club as the 5th amendment, the government doesn't accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. And the sixth representative, Josip Djakic, is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We are now going to vote on the final proposal of the Waste Management Act. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? It voted 120 MPs and MPs, 75 for, 2 abstentions and 43 against, and thus passed the Waste Management Act.
