ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u27344	We are going to another debate, the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Honored counterpart Željko Sačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u27345	Dear chairman, president, secretary, respected colleagues and colleagues, Croatian public. Certainly, we are shocked by the recent fact that Mr. Mamić from another country who has been legally condemned, he has been confirmed with the verdict, however, the shocking details that speak, the suspicions that he has expressed, and the facts that he has so far unproven, which determines that since October of last year we have had the opportunity to find out, have shocked and scandalized the entire Croatian public and, of course, that as parliamentary representatives, the least we can do is encourage all the institutions of this society that are dealing with it, from USKOK, PNUSKKKK and all possible repressive bodies, to fully investigate all the facts, and consequently, to apply the law, and what we can do as Parliament's representatives, and what I will personally do as a member of the National Security Committee urgently request a session in connection with the situation in our Croatian justice and the overall situation of the rule of law and the rule of law in this society. And I'm also calling on all my colleagues and colleagues to think and to create conditions, they're actually here, to use them, to form, if anything required a parliamentary investigative commission, then it's in this case around the whole scandal. I will also present my exceptional dissatisfaction with today's schedule and the order of the debate in HS because today 15-20 minutes before us 3 are important and important points of which one debate on the amendment and addition of the Law on Croatian Defence, the second one is long awaited, the law, the proposal of the Civil Victims of the Homeland War, each of these points, and finally the Act on Tourist Activity, each of these topics deserves a full-time debate. Be assured, you will see today how and in what direction Croatian society and Croatian defenders and Croatian people will be extremely interested in these topics. The key question, we Croats, we Croatian people, we who have fought, defended and freed Croatia do not dispute anyone and do not want to prevent any satisfaction if for an hour with a rifle in hand defends Croatia's homeland, but at the same time we will do everything in our power that no one who has achieved these glorious, honorable and unrepeated, God, the conditions cannot use the rights prescribed by the Law on Croatian defenders. Also, no one who has raised his hand to the Republic of Croatia, no one who, by means of thought, deed, failure, has been against the creation and release of a sovereign democratic independent state of Croatia, can exercise absolutely no rights under the Civil Victims Act of the Homeland War, however anyone who needs any political breakthroughs, because of any hands, we will not allow enemies of Croatian heritage to burden Croatian people and their difficult financial conditions to achieve their backs a comfortable age and to treat their wounds that they have received in the fight against Croatia. Now, that's not gonna work, and that's what today is about, God forbid we all have to get together, even if this debate lasts continuously the next day until 7:00 in the morning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u27396	9th debate Green-left bloc advocates' club, dear colleague William Matula, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u27397	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, just what my colleague Puljak started, that I needed to say something about it. Today, the main story is the testimony of the Mamic press after the verdict and what he said about the Supreme Judge Cessa and other judges about the amount of money he gave them. What's the fact that N1 television is a television that gives us all that information in real time and actually does what public service should do, it does commercial television. Now, what happened between "A1" and "N1" is called the failure of the market. You're convincing us when you bring the market to us that the market will solve everything, but it doesn't happen, it's known all over the capitalist world, that the market feller, that that's exactly what happened, that the market doesn't work in this case, and that's when politics is obliged to intervene, it's due. In what way? Of course, the question now is that in the second reading of this law, last time, the Law on Electronic Media had an emphasis on the question of hate speech and all of it with the right, all of it for a reason, but this is now an opportunity to see if one who produces content can also distribute it and, at the very least, it is too clear that “Vodofon” or “A1”, and possibly “HT” is using this opportunity to bring us into the seal and impose some price on others and that the end-user, citizens and citizens are being abolished for this only possible, in fact, commercial television that performs public function. For what? Because after even 3 sessions of the Media Committee, before that, before I go to the public service and the HRT word, I would like to say that still the editor-in-chief of Tihomir Ladisic was just a moment ago, perhaps you listened to it, said that "N1" is willing to provide this content temporarily and hopefully not until the local elections, as much as you may have estimated it to be on your hands, the fact is that after three sessions of the Media Committee, in the very short time that they brought out the situation on HRT, under the managing director of Bačić and business director Stipeić, because this manager is very important on TV and after all, nothing. And it really just shows how Prime Minister Plenkovic and HDZ are cramping and panicking to hold up and levers of power while suffocating institutions in Croatia, so on in HRT. And so, probably your impeccable sense of timing politically, I don't know if it's the president of the club or the president of the Parliament or I don't know, the HDZ secretary, who together, you decide, that suddenly this report goes on colding, who knows how long. You're sending the principalship clear signs that they can move on with that bad program, the only thing they've restored, they've created a new studio, but that they're really present, they're not. Prime Minister Plenkovic is getting more and more in the cramp and the HRT to which he intended the government's newsletter is, it clearly shows. Not a single critical question from a journalist addressed to the prime minister will you hear on HRT. It is exclusively tossing up pre-prepared issues, which means being in panic cramps, such panic cramps from the prime minister and HDZ, spreading further to institutions and so on to HRT, and this panic cramp turns into violence, intimidation and all forms of abuse, both at HRT and at the university, both in the judiciary and under the cover of Prime Minister Plenkovic, Government, HDZ, I don't get involved in university autonomy. [[The incursion president: Thank you very much.]] Autonomy... [[The incursion president: Thank you very much.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u27398	Comrade Matula, time's up....../Matula Invader: Excuse me, too long... You'll probably say that I will violently interrupt you now, but no, because you don't respect the procedure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, you're raping procedure. [[Matula: Yes, yes, yes, you're right.]] Here you go, colleague Bacic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. [[Matula: Yes, you're right.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u27399	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Matul was injured by an officer. 238. Rules of Procedure. Without an argument, the HDZ unwarrantedly calls me as president of the club, you as president of the Assembly, the HDZ secretary, alluding that we are in any way affecting the relationship between the two legal persons, between the A1 teleoperate and the United Group's United Group on N1 status. I'm begging you, Comrade Matula, to stop. Unfounded for your political reasons [[Intruder President: Thank you, colleague Bačić.]] calling HDZ. [[Incursion President: Comrade Bačić, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u27400	First of all, there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure, although all what my colleague Matula said, I find untrue and unnecessary, but it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so you know the same thing, and I'll give you a warning. A colleague of the Hill, here you go. Comrade Bulj, Injury of the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u27401	Thank you very much. Dear President, you've hurt an officer. 238, where you label a parliamentary representative as chairman of the truths or truths spoken. So you have no right to bring that qualification as a parliamentary representative, you are the president of the Parliament and the majority and representatives who are here in opposition. Therefore, you insult the Rules of Procedure and thus use this role of yours as President of the Parliament quite inappropriately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u27402	I warned my colleagues because it was not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but since I was directly mentioned in a very awkward and untrue context, I was obliged to refer to it. The sixth debate of the National Movement Representatives Club, a respected colleague of Ante Prkacin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u27463	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, I said earlier that I would talk about serious political issues as important as it should be, and I do not see a more important political topic than the Serbian Orthodox Church for several reasons. First, in the last 100 years, it has been the most insidious and insolent enemy of the Croatian people, and in those 100 years, no one has done us so much harm and harm as the Serbian Orthodox Church, and unfortunately the public knows little about it, and Croatian politics is even less. I spoke last time about a contract that then was signed by Prime Minister Ivica Racan on behalf of the Croatian government with the Serbian Orthodox Church 18 years ago. And it's caused a lot of attention. I'm particularly interested in two letters, unfortunately I don't have time to read them here, where people ask me if I really believe that mere ignorance is the only reason to sign that contract, if it isn't with ignorance a little bit and an evil intention with the taste of high treason. I said when Croatia's policy estimates that the problem of the Serbian Orthodox Church is significant, some institutions of the system do their job. And I will now thank the two Croatian historians who sent me a very significant document and read something from it. I'm going to thank Stephen Loza and Stipi Bilic for giving me so-called. Dunkelman's or Valerian's memo. It is a memorandum that was created immediately at the beginning of World War I in Croatia. So, when Hitler destroyed Yugoslavia, Croatian nationalists react in one way, establish their own state, Serbian nationalists react in two ways. Nedic cleans up the Quisling and Acimovic before him founded the Serbian government in Germany, and Draža Mihajlovic binds himself to the refugee government in London. However, the Serbian Orthodox Church and the remains of the black hand work separately. They're working two memorandas parallelly. One memorandum of Stjevan Moljević on homogeneous Serbia, which envisions large Serbia in a way to slaughter Croats, to slaughter Muslims in BiH, the whole of BiH and 80% of Croatia's territory, while the Serbian Orthodox Church will support it in a way that for 14 days they have debated in a committee of lies to come up with the best and most convincing lies to send them to Europe. First they sent them to Dunkelman, a German military commander in Belgrade, and then they send them around the world. And interestingly, as I described last time the crimes of the Serb army in the second Balkan war against Muslims and Albanians attribute it, even worse crimes are attributed to Croats and Croatian troops in this war. So in this memo whose name is the esteemed historian Lozo rightly changed he's not called Dunklman, but Valerian, according to Valerian who wrote it. Actually, it wasn't Valerian who wrote it, it was a certain Pero Slepčević, but Valerian signed it. Here are the amazing things, if you remember when I described the crime against the Croats 27.7. in Serbs, it is the same described here, but beware of the way, I proved no one had denied me, that only 10 Croatian domains were during that massacre and slaughter of the Croatian innocent population, and the Serbian Orthodox worm in this, I will copy this into 150 copies and share it to you all, says that 600 Ustashas came and slaughtered 3,000 Serbs in one day and then slaughtered all Serbs in Lapca. And in the '48 census report, It says there are 10.099 Serbs in Lapca, and only 143 Croats, and before the war there were Croats around 2,000. The same thing is for Clay, the same thing is for Gospić. So, the Serbian Orthodox Church so privileged with us and not only the Serbian Orthodox Church but also the Serb minority in the Croatian state, it has one ferocity for Serbia because they do not know how to be grateful for it. What the Croats are experiencing in Vojvodina is only because of our permissiveness towards the Serb minority and the Serbian Orthodox worm in Croatia, and we, if we were the right Parliament, would have called the extraordinary session and the government ordered to withdraw.../Speakers speak at the same time./... [[The Intruder President: Thank you fellow Pracchin.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u27464	Comrade Pracchin, thank you very much for your time. It's been 10 seconds. Eightth debate Center and GLAS Representative Club, respected colleague Marijana Puljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u27539	I would like to thank the chairman, dear colleagues. Yesterday, an interesting news surfaced that immediately began to connect with political wars ahead of local elections. What happened? So the "A1" operator announced that it would no longer broadcast channels from the United Media Group, the Sports Club and N1 TV. The contract stands out at the end of March, and as far as we know from the media, it will not be renewed. The same thing happens on announcements or will happen with another HT operator who will also after the end of the contract, so will not extend the contract and continue the transmission of these channels. Thus, football fans will lose their games of English, Russian, Dutch, Portuguese leagues, and will win in exchange for the Spanish, Italian, French and HNL, will no longer be "Formule 1", they will be able to watch in the second package American basketball NBA and regional ABA league and various other competitions, so the sports package is changing. But the real problem and the victim of this decision is actually the N1 television that I can praise and believe and most of you here present, as an excellent information program. Since the N1 programme does not have a national concession such as "New TV" and "Home" owned by the same United Group, then simply as things are now standing there will not be available to the users of "A1" operator. This is all reducing market competition, which is always for the benefit of all users in Croatia. Is this move a political background and a restriction on one of the free media in Croatia, a medium that has actually performed a public service function, such as, that public service we pay from the subscription, I can say freely and did not provide at a level that it did not provide or this is a clean commercial war on the market of operators and the fight against the arrival of a third party to the market? Operators certainly have every right to decide on their own which programme they will offer to their users, that is certainly their right and part of some commercial decision, is not questionable. But what is different with us than the rest of Europe is the Law on Electronic Media, which should be more liberal in this part. According to current law, operators such as ‘A1’ and ‘HT’ cannot be media owners either, so distributors cannot be media owners. In the countries of Europe, however, it is not, it is a relic of old times in which it was afraid that this could lead to corruption or inappropriate business. However, it has been shown in practice in Europe that this is not the case, so most or almost all of the countries in the EU have changed it in their laws, only we are not. If the law were therefore a little bit more liberal, the United Group might as well function as one operator and then, through its packages, play N1 television to its users. Mostly we expect, the first reading of this law we have passed, we are waiting for a second reading and therefore we expect that in this second reading of the Law on Electronic Media we hope that this part of the law will finally comply with European practice and enable this so-called. vertical integration. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u27638	And we are going to the last, 11th debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Ivan Celic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u27639	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, over the past months have been debated in this high house about the crown traffic lights, human rights, and we have been constantly in the range of restrictions to liberalisation on epidemiological measures. The European Commission is 17. In June 2020, it adopted a European strategy to accelerate the development of the production and use of the vaccine against Covida-19. Almost all the money from the emergency support instrument, so EUR 2.7 billion was spent to speed up the production of the vaccine. Usually, that procedure takes 10 years. After only 10 months of the outbreak of the pandemic in Europe, we have come to have different types of vaccines and the EU has reacted in the best possible way. No matter what the topic is currently causing controversy, the issue of vaccines is just an example that the EU makes sense and that it is successfully dealing with the pandemic of the coronary virus. If they weren't pooled research funds, they probably wouldn't have a vaccine against the crown today. The fact is that it was done by the EU although it was not in its jurisdiction. And if each member state had gone into individual research, there wouldn't have been enough money or strength. The problems of production and distribution are an additional topic to which attention should also be paid. The EU has reacted solidly in the light of its competences and in line with the EU's founding contracts. We must always keep this in mind because the national states are sovereign and they have the right to decide within the Member States. It's sometimes an advantage, and sometimes a lack. It is not easy to be patient, it is not easy to be under constant mental stress, but we need to understand the mechanisms of how the EU works. The EU has agreed 2.5 billion doses of vaccines, and without Britain, the EU has 445 million inhabitants. So if we count and double the dose of the vaccine again, there's more that's related to the KOKAX mechanism. Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic held a meeting yesterday with 5 prime ministers of EU member states. It is agreed to create a corrective mechanism in relation to the distribution of the vaccine. Namely, Croatia has ordered additional doses of the Pfizer vaccine, followed by additional talks with the Commission to try to compensate for the delays that some countries have experienced due to slower production and distribution of AstraZenec vaccine. It was only in December of last year that Pfizer and Moderna would be the first to be registered, to get a conditional permit, and AstraZeneca initially made the biggest promises. As regards the occurrence of information on cases of blood clots and the discontinuation of vaccination with AstraZenec in some EU Member States, it is important to see what the competent regulatory authorities say. According to a risk assessment report from 5 days ago with the European Medicines Agency, there is no causal link between the administration of Covida-19 of the AstraZenec vaccine and the clotting disorder. The benefit of using the vaccine in question outweighs the risks and the vaccine should continue to be used. Yesterday, European Medicines Agency Executive Director Emer Cook also said that at this point the benefit of the vaccine in question continues to outweigh the risks and may continue to be used during the course of the assessment. We expect the final conclusion of the European Medicines Agency tomorrow. Croatia ordered 5 million and 600,000 doses of vaccines, up from AstraZenec 2 million and 700, a million from Moderna, a million from Pfizer and 900 thousand from Johnson & Johnson. According to data from March 15th, 105 690 doses of AstraZeneca, 189 656 doses of Pfizer vaccine and 26 330 doses of Moderna vaccine have been used so far. If we look at what the opposition in this High House says, on the issue of masks, not enough, on the question of tests, too late, on the question of vaccines, not enough. I think the Government of the Republic of Croatia successfully implements the plan and programme under the circumstances Vaccination and protection of health [[Intruder: Thank you.]] fellow citizens and fellow citizens of the Republic of Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you, fellow Cellic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u27640	Thank you very much. We've come to an end with free speech, free debates, so let's move on to the agenda. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much. Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Like every Wednesday, we start by taking a stand. The first in line is the Club of Representatives of the Bridge and the esteemed colleague of Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u27708	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Croatian peoples. So, yesterday we had confirmation of the Supreme Court of Judgment against the Mamic brothers and other defendants and that verdict, and the verdict caused great public interest. But an even greater public storm caused yesterday's press conference by convicts Zdravko Mamic, who is very precise, so by name and last name, time, the way he did it, charged judges of the County Court in Osijek and the president of the Supreme Court for allegedly receiving bribes. If Mamic's testimony is true, he may have come upon himself with more serious crimes than those for whom he was convicted. If Mamic's claims are true, if they prove true, it would be one of the most powerful blows to the very foundations of this country, meaning the Croatian judiciary. If these charges proved true, they would not make Mamic a victim or an innocent man but an even bigger criminal who, not only drew money from Dinah, but also bribed judges and, more terrible, tried to humanize our judiciary. If Mamic's claims were to prove true, they would confirm what we used to say here, which is that you don't come to the impact of the Croatian judiciary until you have political protection or you don't come until you come into conflict with someone who's more powerful than you are. That's what all Croatian citizens worry about, that's what young people leave Croatia for, I've said on many occasions that Croatia, and it's a frightening fact, I don't know how my colleague Bacic can sleep with it, how Prime Minister Plenkovic with that fact, how I can even sleep that Croatia's first Europe after the perception of corruption. Worse than us by the perception of corruption is only Slovakia, but you know what happened in Slovakia? A special court has been established for judges and state attorneys, and in the process under way there are two former police directors, the chief state lawyer whose cell phone found correspondence with criminals, a series of judges, deputy Supreme Court presidents, two tycoons, meaning Slovak and a series of politicians. So Slovakia solves the fact that Europe's champion is after the perception of corruption. How does Croatia solve this fact? From day to day, what happened to this press conference is actually just making this situation worse, and a strong response from the government, from HS, is not there. All we have is silence. We only have some quasireforms, amendments to the law, what have we changed in the Croatian judiciary? For the election of the Supreme.../incomprehensible/... President of the Supreme Court we have a public call so now we have a conflict between the president of the state and the prime minister about it, and in fact it's only a struggle to take a better negotiating position before the two of them sit at the table. What can get us out is the only strong deal with corruption and an anti-corruption package of laws and determination to deal with corruption. Or perhaps the simplest thing, that for all state lawyers, for everyone who works in the State's Attorney's Office and in the judiciary, we should determine that they're retired at 45 years of age and we should get rid of them and we'll clear that system. From those former officers from the communist regime to the ones he took on, I don't know, Shex and Bacic. It's the only way, it looks. Because there is no strong answer, and we will require that strong answer and I call on Zdravko Mamić to send this stick to the DORH to send it to the Anti-Corruption Council whose president I am. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u27730	Let's move on, now it's time for a respected colleague, Veljko Kajtazi, on behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u27731	Thank you. The Honorable president of HS, respected colleagues and colleagues. In two months, the first round of local elections will be held in Croatia. I'm thinking that these choices are going to be done with the census, maybe we could move a little bit, which is it. The election is there that traditionally have the weakest voter response, and I fear the crown situation will further reduce that response. I must admit that I often wonder why that is, given that the choices that are essentially the most affected by the lives of the citizens are. And when I say life, I mean those everyday things that we all meet with, like waste disposal, traffic conditions, water prices, draining, public transportation, etc. That's why everyone should care about going to the polls and choosing the ones they think will best lead the place they live. I've been working with them for 10 years now and I've been working with a whole series of local leaders, whether mayors, mayors or mayors, hundreds of times I've been in meetings with them and their leaders, and I have to say that I've gotten a pretty good picture of how local and regional self-government works. I therefore feel free to say that there are huge differences in the approach of these leaders in how they work and how they care about their population and how they approach projects. With some of whom it is truly a pleasure to cooperate, it is about people who understand their role and who realize that their main goal, as well as all of us in this assembly, should be to improve the quality of life of citizens and to regulate society. And while it is understandable that there are major differences between worlds and opinions among parliamentarians, the difference between what they think about some law at the level of local self-government is less. Of course, local budgets and the adoption of local documents have differences in priorities or what policy option it considers to be less or more important, but generally speaking of which the lower level of this difference is less. And it is understandable that this is because it is logical that it is in everyone's interest that its place has an orderly road, built sewer network or functioning of public transport. But as there are local leaders with whom I have said it is a pleasure to work, such as the Mayor of Belišča Dinko Buric or the Mayor of Beli Manastira Tomislav Rob, whom I thank again for everything we have realized together, so there are others. By this I mean certain mayors and mayors and mayors who do not approach all citizens equally but look selectively. I don't know what's under it, and I don't want to use some hard words, but the fact is that some people just don't look at all citizens equally because how else do we explain that we have a situation where some units of local self-government refuse to implement certain projects where both I and the state institutions have invested time, energy and money, even returning funds to the state budget as it comes to programmes that would regulate Roma settlements in certain places. But once I heard a response like this, so what will a citizen tell me if I invest money in a Roma settlement, as if the Roma are not citizens and as if they do not have the right to infrastructure as other citizens of the Republic of Croatia do because when the road or waterway is arranged in a settlement with the majority of the population no one says here is being arranged for the Croatians. But when it is arranged in a settlement where most of the Roma are immediately spoken, it is arranged for the Roma. It makes me very sad, and I have to admit that I live for the day when I will hear that in honor of editing something for my Roma to say, it is arranged for citizens because some Roma settlements are over 70 years old and still have no basic infrastructure such as water, electricity and sewerage, and public transport is science fiction. I will therefore take this opportunity to appeal once again to all local and regional self-government leaders to remind them that the Croatian member of the EU community based on equality and respect for the rights of all citizens is equal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u27743	We're going to the fourth debate, SDSS Representatives' Club, honorary colleague Anja Shimpraga, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u27744	Dear President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday, hate messages and Ustasha signs came to light on a collapsed monument on the Mount of Spas above Knin. Most of the monuments of the anti-fascist struggle were erected in the 1960s and 1970s. Memories in the meantime have often become places of oblivion. They were built on sites of significant historical battles from II. svt. wars and works are then great domestic sculptors and architects. There's a monument on the mountain of Spas in Knin. The concrete obelisk of modernist lines was erected in '69. In the glory of the dead in the battle for the release of Knin, which lasted about a month and ended on December 4, 1944. A year. The Partisan Units of the 8th Dalmatian Corps freed the city and the end of this battle is also marked when the Day of Liberation of Dalmatia. But it was also a crucial battle to end II. svt. The war in these places. In that name, on the hill Spas above the city was erected a monument of exceptional dimensions of 25 meters high but it was strutting on the ground in the years after '95. when it's organized mined in the bottom with explosives. Although it is a monument of historical importance and of national importance, the only thing that the Ministry of Culture did in 2007 was give its principle of agreement on its restoration. Nothing's been done since. At the end of last year, the Split Association of Homeland War veterans and anti-fascists launched its reconstruction. Their plan to return is a collapsed monument on the list of historical—cultural heritage and thus restore it. Through the program of public works of the city of Knina, a plateau was cleaned near the monuments as well as the monument itself. And it's not like you're hearing, the other one should have to express their frustration and impatience in this way. The city will report this case to the competent police, the monument will be cleaned but what remains is knowledge that even after all the attempts in our society, we have failed to learn new generations of true values and respect. As a society, we must be concerned about the increasingly racist and intolerant speech of hatred in public discourse and focus primarily on Serbs, LGBT populations and Roma as well as in the reported physical attacks on members of these groups as well as on their property. The SDSS has never been a silent witness and has not watched only sides, clearly and unequivocally condemned every violence, every hate speech and indicated that a democratic society must not tolerate such patterns of behavior. Public officials and politicians were first called for responsible behaviour by creating public policies. We cannot allow people, especially young people, to accept these social phenomena and not to be reacted to. Who were these messages sent to in 2020? Do students of Serbian nationality who win first seats in national competitions in Croatian language? Do they move to other countries because of this social climate? And this isn't dear colleagues and colleagues, dissipating hate and raising tensions. This is an invitation not to turn our heads and to talk about what is socially unacceptable and that despite the differences, we are people who live together together and together we must strive to stop the revision of the past and to contribute to the creation of a culture of peace and memory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u27750	We're going to the 3rd debate, dear colleague Katarina Peovic, independent representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u27751	Good afternoon, everyone. Let's say something from this tycoons meeting. She would refer to an interview given by Danko Končar the other day that when you read, you think that Francis Tahi would probably speak earlier words about farmers than Danko Končar speaks of “Brodotrogira” workers whose owner he owns. Danko Končar, who received from the state for one Kuna Shipyard “Brodotrogir” and this shipyard he was covered with, therefore covered by all debts, Danko Končar, who invested state money in a private marina even though he had an obligation to invest in the shipyard, Danko Končar, whose contracted total destruction of “Brodotrogira” in which 1200 workers worked, now works at not 400, and announces 150 new business conditions, the owner of half of Pula Bay which is interested in real estate, luxury marinas, Hotel “Medena” which he had reached in Trogir, this interview says of the failure “Brodotrogir” are guilty workers, 40 workers only say he did not get paid, 40 workers only did not get paid, a convicted criminal in Yugoslavia, the business of which they worshiped the philanthropic system, which is responsible for the “Brogue”. Well, colleagues and colleagues, we should finally say that that's enough, that workers can't be responsible for the destruction of shipyards that are destroyed by tycoons pulling state money into their own private pockets. This Končar, which was recently celebrated in the interview, accuses workers of destroying "Brodotrogira" by claiming to be unemployed. The 40 workers mentioned have just received from these Call Requesting Agency, and with interest from the interest on interest, they will have to pay their debts to those agencies, while Danko Končar will have nothing to do with it, and the state's attorney replied to me and the workers that a private, private, private person cannot be held accountable or anything will happen because of the blockades of companies due to the debt, nothing will happen to him. These workers who owe $15,000 about because they had to eat something for six months that they didn't get paid, the agencies are sitting on bills. And what does Concara really care about, and the workers are good at saying what's going to happen. So after the state money was invested in the marina, he was interested in selling the marina, and this to some unknown investor who is neither known nor named, so it is rightly assumed that it is Končar or his other firms, so he will sell himself to the marina, he is interested in concessioning the maritime well-being that he will receive after the total destruction of Brodotrogir, which therefore has the right to claim that concession, and probably also the real-estate business that can be launched after Brodotrogir goes into liquidation or bankruptcy and liquidation. Now that Končar has destroyed Brodotrogir, watch out for that interview, it's cynical that he's willing to give those workers the freedom to operate the Brodotrogier. So he needs to be answered by colleagues and colleagues, that now he should give a luxury marina to the management workers, that's the marina where he also smashed the money that came for the rescue of Brodotrogira, instead of a devastated shipyard, we give workers to manage that luxury marina. Therefore, a technologically alert shipbuilding site was to be launched, productivity should be increased, none of this happened for a reason. However, the State should intervene, provide a financial framework for the financing of the shipyard but not by giving these subsidies in the pocket to private tycoons, but by really ensuring the possibility of technological development rather than the short-term profit and interest of Danko Končar in order to enable an increase in the employment of income. I'll just say for the end, Končar in that interview says that the workers in Brodotrogir are on the right track to end up as headquarters in Pula because they founded a shipbuilding defence headquarters in Trogir, All workers need to reply to Končaru, “No passport!” [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u27793	Here you go, buddy Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u27794	Dear Mr. President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I have to say from this pay phone clearly and loudly to everyone that I am not taking part in the negotiations at the COVID supplement, so I cannot inform the pensioners and the pensioners of the progress of the negotiations but I believe that this process should be public and transparent and not constrained by the veil of secrets, and then we have statements that the pensioners are already satisfied with the fact that they are talking. So pensioners and pensioners call, call, actually, they feel like a dry, thirsty country waiting for rain, plagued by fears and indifference all these years. Yes, it is true, I promoted the COVID supplement from this constituency booth and in agreement with the new president of HSU, suggested that all pensioners with pensions of up to 25002 kn receive a one-time payment of 2,500 kn for increased cost of life during the pandemic. For those with a pension of £241 to £4000, I have proposed 1500, also for pensioners on the earthquake affected area, I have proposed 2 payments of £2500 this year without income censorship. I was involved in making a proposal, so my expenses and budget weren't unknown. I expected that someone would seriously consider the problem and first decide whether or not there are opportunities for real help to the pensioners. For me, from the first thought, this was the social supplement greatest for those with the smallest incomes and you can't be compensated for a little harmonisation which is partly the cause and change of the calculation methodology from one year ago to the damage of the pensioners. As a longtime negotiator, I know that goals should be set quite high because it is invaluable, it is invaluable to fight for low goals. I did not know who would be involved in the proposal and how to initiate the negotiations on the add-on but I know that the basic negotiating platform must not be changed, it does not decrease at the first meeting with the side of which something is sought. Nor in the negotiations may there be any impression or agreement under the grain with the other side. Unfortunately, that's what happened. My request has been halved and part of helping pensioners with an earthquake of affected areas has been abandoned and a new category of pensioners has been proposed above 5,000 kuna, which has nothing to do with the social threat. There are questions that the negotiators should have already answered, I won't salt their minds, they're negotiating on their own responsibility, but only one thing I'm going to suggest to them is one question. Will the Covid supplement be added to the revenue so that citizens lose their right to free extra insurance? According to my calculations, this costs a billion, about a billion and 100 million kunas I suggested. I want, honestly, I want the negotiators to vote as much as possible because the pensioners, the pensioners, the pensioners, they're suffering, I repeat, from fear and indifference, and they deserve it. Also, from this initial position, with the basis of a negotiating experience, anything that would be less than 2/3 of the starting platform, I think the starting proposal is a negotiating failure and a public deception. And the government, they don't give anything of their own just redistribute what they get into the budget and always want to buy as little money as possible. So my message is next. Pensioners and pensioners price your stock at this time rise, raise your price, don't accept crumbs and don't let them translate you thirsty across the water again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u27811	The fifth debate, IDS MPs' club, dear colleague Katarina Nemet, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u27812	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. I will look back on a problem that is literally vital to the people of Istria, especially its northwest. It is an initiative that life-threatening patients in the area are transported and taken care of in the hospital and in Slovenia's Isola instead of in remote hospitals in Pula and Rijeka. In fact, due to the proximity of the isolation hospital, which, in turn, was built by the residents of today's Croatian part of Istria during the time of the former common state, the pilot project Emergency EU region was launched in 2019 as part of the Interreg Slovenia-Croatia programme. The main partners in the project were the Institute of Emergency Medicine of Istria and Isola General Hospital, which agreed on a protocol for transport and timely disposal of life-threatening patients from northwestern Istria to an isolated hospital. This significantly changed the outcome of their treatment and reduced potential mortality. The results of the project are measured in saved human lives and prevented resulting disability. This co-operation also meant a significant lower personnel burden on the Istrian Emergency Medicine Institute due to a less time-out of medical teams which took the intervention and the journey back and forth about 4 hours while intervention and journey to Izola were most often resolved within half an hour. It should be pointed out here that the cost of treatment in the EU mentioned project was borne by the Istrian County because the HZZO refused to participate in the project or to bear the costs for Croatian citizens. Understanding the important project was not unfortunately either by the competent ministry. I would like to remind you that then Minister Kujundzic almost literally prescribed protocols drawn up by doctors from Istria and their colleagues from Izola and applied them to establish the cooperation between Metkovic and Mostar while the costs of providing emergency patients from Istria in Izola remained in Istria County. But that project ended last year, too. To prevent northwestern Istria's residents from finding themselves in an unfavourable position again, in order not to re-burn the unsuitable care of life-threatening patients with a lower outcome of treatment and unnecessary death outcomes of the Istrian County launched an initiative to conclude a bilateral agreement on cross-border health cooperation between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Slovenia. All of course with the goal of saving the lives of the people of Istria, as well as numerous tourists who live here for a significant part of the year. This initiative involves, above all, the coordination of health institutions involved in the management of emergency medical cases. I will point out once again that an identical protocol is already being applied in southern Croatia and refers to the whole country. Therefore, the signing of this bilateral agreement would create a prerequisite for life-threatening patients from northwestern Istria to have equal access to health care as the other inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia have. The agreement should also be signed by HZZO and Slovenian health insurance to pay the costs of treatment at the hospital in Izola, which are not significantly higher than those in the case of KBC Rijeka. At the beginning of December of last year, Minister Barroso was sent information on the initiative, and since there was no response from the Istrian mayor in early February, he requested a meeting on the subject, but remains unfortunately without an answer. I therefore appeal to Minister Beros, as well as Prime Minister Plenkovic, to pay attention to this initiative, to get acquainted with it, and to support the conclusion of an agreement that will give the people of Istria the same right to health care as the rest of Croatia have. Nothing more but less than that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39159	First point: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Croatian Defences from the Homeland War and members of their families, first reading, P.Z. No. 122; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 122. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on War Veterans. I would now like to ask the motionary's representative to give an additional explanation of the law. With us is the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister and Croatian Defence Minister Tomo Medved. Before that, just a little vice president, Comrade Bull, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39160	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Most Club, I am looking for a break on the proposal for laws on Croatian, amendments and additions to the Law on Croatian defenders. Three years ago, the Law on Croatian Defence was passed. It is then said to be a whole law that will solve the problems of Croatian defenders after 30 years of the start of the Homeland War. However, colleagues and colleagues, at that time I warned the government's minister and representatives that the law was inadmissible. That the law is inconclusive and today we see, after 3 years, the Croatian government remembered that the law is inadmissible, and the result of the law passed 3 years ago was 500 dead Croatian defenders who made the request and did not exercise their right. At that time, I warned, distinguished ministers, that it was not done in practice in reality, in the implementation of infrastructures to solve the problems of Croatian defenders, but we are talking after 30 years from the start of Homeland work and today at the same time when we are passing the law that is needed, about the civilian victims of the Homeland War because those who have been killed by a grenade of Serbs are not a question of nationality, but they have been killed by the Serbs, however, and what has been decided not to get these Serbs who have shelled, killed and burned Croatia that they will not achieve this right of civilian victims of the Homeland War. We don't have a list of Serb aggressors, their troops, their volunteers, and in the same day to solve this time, another question is still being asked. Why do you always make pre-election promises? Time has long been a trial to resolve the problems of Croatian defenders and civilian victims by law However, unfortunately... [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39161	The apartment will be approved. Comrade Sacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39162	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Bear. My colleagues and colleagues, the Croatian public. We certainly express on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns and demand a break and express enormous dissatisfaction with the proposed points of the agenda today. It is incomprehensible, inadmissible to discuss such important, complex issues of importance for the Croatian defence population, for the perilous population of the same day, what? About two laws, and the third one only around 4:00 in the morning, and each one for himself, we knew, it takes at least 10 to 12 hours. Therefore, we would like to further consult with other clubs, with the opposition, we must perform together, we do not want manipulation with the Croatian public and abuse of the Croatian budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39163	Comrade Sacic, there are only three points of the agenda. I don't know what we're supposed to do with a day's work on one agenda. If it's going to talk and we're going to last longer than some night hours and we're going to switch for another day, it's not a problem, but I can't put one item on the agenda a day. Why? Well, I don't know, because there's 100 in the agenda, then I'd probably, I don't know how you imagine it. A colleague named Stipo Mlinaric called now, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39164	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Homeland Movement Club for this point that is today the first, but also for second points on civil war victims. I think it is incorrect to come to the Assembly 2 months before the local elections and push 2 laws, the first law on wartime disabled people who favor you from HDZ and the second law on civil victims of war that pleases the SDSS where they will try to get through that law the people who attacked Croatia, who have destroyed Croatia, who have actually created the disabled we are discussing in the first place. If that's your coalition agreement, then tell the public that we've been here too long today, tell them you've agreed with the SDSS to pass one law, and you let them have another law, so we can cut this debate short so we don't get too attached to each other until nightfall. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39165	The fourth one came in from a colleague, Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39166	Thank you very much, Mr. President of HS, so I am looking for breaks on behalf of the HDZ Club to repeat once again what the law on the rights of Croatian defenders and its amendments and additions bring. As a result of the comprehensive law that has been made, which is the technical problems in which we are changing it today and to list everything that has actually been done in the past 3 years in stabilising the defence population, in their dignity, in their care, in their rights stemming from the law and what needs to be fixed so that it is fully enforceable in these parts of the art and in the authority of the Croatian Defence Ministry. Similarly, to define that these are civilian victims, who can get the right and the status of a civilian victim, and who can't, how many there are so far and how much is predicted in the near future. So I propose that we use this break to make it clear to HDZ members and coalition partners to those who do not read, do not know, believe and are not referred to what these two legislative proposals are making.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39167	The apartment will be approved. This is my colleague Sacic reporting for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39168	I think it is absolutely unacceptable for a representative of his HDZ colleagues, Mr. Djakic, to label all of us who think with our heads that we do not know, that we are not informed and that we are lame. Shameful, warn him.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39169	My colleague Sacic, there's a lot of excuses here at HS today in free speech, so I didn't warn anyone, so I don't want a colleague of Shakic. And I'm asking you also not to abuse the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Now we're gonna take a break by 10.50 hours, and then we're gonna move on. It's 10:36 p.m. My colleagues and colleagues, I ask you to take your seats so that we can continue our work, so I would now call again on the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Croatian Defence Tom Medved to present the above-mentioned bill, please. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.51 HOURS]] Just hold it, please hold the plates just to catch everyone who answered. Here you go, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39171	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS, ladies and gentlemen. For introduction into the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, I would like to refer to the Law on Croatian Defences, which was adopted on 14 December 2017. The adoption of the law in 2017 We approached after a systematic analysis showed the following situation. The status and material rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families, as well as the victims of the Homeland War, were dispersed in a number of different laws, which created legal and existential uncertainty for users. The deadline for achieving the status of Croatian defender from the Homeland War was closed, so part of Croatian defenders who, for various reasons, had not achieved the status of Croatian defenders actually remained out of the system. In part of the defence population, the consequences of the war trauma occurred many years later, and due to the closed deadline for recognition of HRVI status based on disease, they were prevented from achieving the status of HRVI from the Homeland War and belonging rights. The unemployment of Croatian defenders was high, at the time there were 85,000 Croatian defenders who were unemployed and had no income. The Law of 2017 The result was inter-resorial cooperation with the competent authorities, and what I want to stress, for the first time in lawmaking, were Croatian defenders through the work of project teams. It's the law that's been arranged next. The deadline for recognition of the status of Croatian defender from the Homeland War and the status of HRVI from the Homeland War under disease and the adoption of the law has been opened, from the moment of its entry into force, 18665 requests have been submitted, of which 3,873 requests have been resolved positively, 6,531 negatively. The fee for unemployed Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families was introduced instead of an earlier supply that was not in the jurisdiction of the Croatian Defence Ministry and is currently 7.665 users of this fee. The higher amount of the minimum pension, depending on the length of participation in the fighting sector, has been provided for 36,000 beneficiaries of the fee. We have reduced the age limit for going to retirement depending on the length of participation in the fighting sector. We organised systematic reviews for 66,614 Croatian defenders, and only 8.3% of Croatian defenders do not require further diagnostic procedures. Medical rehabilitation for Croatian defenders from the Homeland War with damage to the body as a result of participation in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia was used by 2,133 Croatian defenders and HRVI. We have intensified housing care in cooperation with the authorities of the state administration who manage apartments and houses owned by the Republic of Croatia, we have taken care of 2,066 members of the family of Croatian defenders of the victims and volunteers of the Homeland War. A total of 2.258 families of Croatian defenders were taken care of through measures of the Croatian Ministry of Defence and the Central State Department of Reconstruction and Housing Care 4.324 defence families. We extended the right to take advantage of employment, and introduced tax reliefs for employers who employ children of the mortally injured or missing Croatian defenders. The work of Croatian defenders with pension has been made possible and is currently in the employment relationship of 7,503 Croatian user defenders. We have established the National War registration of Croatian defenders who are no longer publicly available but are available to bodies that carry out status recognition and exercise of rights. We have significantly administratively strengthened, equipped and informedly connected all departments in the county, making the ministry's service even more accessible, which is visible through the number of 187.510 treatments that have been provided to the users in our departments. EU funds have been provided with adequate official vehicles to district departments for mobile interventions. The main reasons for amending and supplementing the law after the adoption in 2017 and as you could see from the above, it can be concluded that the law in 2017 has made great progress in caring for the defence victims' population, however, after 3 years of law enforcement, it has been observed that certain measures need to be adapted further to the needs of the users in order to fully result in the planned effects. These changes are mainly technical and organisational. The main reason for the change is to speed up the process for achieving HRVI status. In the process of achieving the status of the Homeland War HRVI, there are normative and organisational problems affecting the duration of the procedure far beyond the legal deadlines, which concern most professional evaluations. The General Administrative Procedure Act is prescribed that an official is required in cases where the examination procedure is conducted upon request by the party to decide to make and deliver it to the party no later than 60 days from the date of submission of the orderly application and the procedure for recognition of HRVI status continues for up to 3 years. In view of the long-term duration of the procedure, it is necessary to leave out the ex ante expert assessment from the process of achieving HRVI status. In addition to long-term life, the reasons why it is necessary to leave out the previous expert assessment from the status process of HRVI are as follows, following the previous expert assessment, the skills of the Institute for Arts, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, which redefine the causal link between disease and participation in the Homeland War, as well as the percentage of damage to the organism. It is also important to note that the opinion given in the previous expert evaluation does not oblige experts at the Bureau. In the light of the opinion given in the expert assessment procedure, there is no obligation to carry out a further skill-making process, and the same is later established in a further skill-making process, there is no justification for carrying out an expert assessment. Since the previous expert assessment is carried out in health institutions, and I would also like to remind the difficulties of the functioning of the health system, and in relation to the Covid-19 pandemic, it is further difficult to carry out the previous expert evaluation, as well as to spend 15 million kunas to carry out that expert assessment. In order to further speed up the process of artislating Croatian defenders, in the process of achieving HRVI status, which is now carried out by the Institute of Arts, professional rehabilitation needs to be put into the full jurisdiction of the Croatian Defence Ministry. I would like to remind you that this model was until 2015, namely, in the process of determining the status of HRVI, not only determines the degree of damage to the organism, but also the causal link between this damage to the organism with participation in the Homeland War, which is specificity and requires a special methodology of work that differs from the other articulation procedures in the jurisdiction of the ZOSI. The skills will be carried out by independent medical professionals in 4 first-degree medical committees, which will be established in the Ministry of Croatian Defence. The Croatian Defence Ministry will also establish a second-degree medical commission. This will relieve the ZOSI, noting that there are currently about 3,000 Croatian defenders waiting for the art of art, while Croatian defenders account for a total of about 10% of the total number of art subjects in the ZOSI. A few notes regarding the other amendments to this law. In order to further speed up the housing process, the possibility of buying apartments in locations where it is not cost-effective is envisaged. So, where we can't conduct an organized apartment, where there's a need. It is also envisaged to simplify and speed up the procedure for the transfer of dwellings to Croatian defenders on the basis of an agreement between the state administration authority without making a specific decision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The amendments seek to speed up the process of exercising rights to the socially vulnerable and to further simplify their needs. In the case of benefits for unemployed Croatian defenders and members of their families as separate obstacles to which special evidence must be obtained, there will be no longer a prescribed pension for users greater than 33% of the established budget base, so so far there has been an obstacle. Also, the registered company or crafts as it is already covered by the condition that users and members of its household in the previous calendar year or in the period of 3 months prior to the application do not have total monetary income per household member more than 30% of the established budget base. In addition to the above mentioned, from one-off cash aid, due to the inability to meet the basic needs of life, the obstacle to the achievement will no longer constitute a guaranteed minimum compensation or compensation for the unemployed under this law for the reason that it is a existential minimum which, in exceptional situations such as sickness or an elemental accident, is not sufficient. The provisions of the law will comply with the pension insurance regulations. Further adjustment of pension insurance rights for the most vulnerable defence population that has so far been unable to exercise rights under the Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. Note regarding the application of the law and the provision of financial resources for the implementation of all the measures provided for in the law, as a reminder that the Ministry of Croatian Defence in 2015 had a budget of 972 million and that in 2021 billion and 376 million, therefore increased by more than 404 million kn as a prerequisite for the application of parameters or the application of all the elements provided for in these laws. The estimated financial impact of amending and supplementing the law at the position of the Ministry of Labour, the pension system, family and social policy is secured by an additional €12 million but of course this depends on the date of entry into force of this law. In 2022, an additional 15 million kuna, in 2023, an additional 17 million kuna. At the position of the Croatian Defence Ministry, mainly related to the involvement of doctors in medical committees, benefits for unemployed one-time cash aid were secured in 2021 by an additional 2 million kuna, 2022 added 3 million and in 2023 additional 3 million kuna. And as a conclusion, while respecting the observed needs of the technical and organisational adaptations of the Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, I call on all of you MPs and MPs in the Croatian Assembly for a single approach to the adoption of laws that would make it possible for the most responsible for defending the homeland to achieve the rightful status rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39172	Thank you, Minister. You can stay because we now have replicas and quite a large number. I see 27. First, it's my friend Bauk's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39173	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, one case from the defence ministry's portfolio occupied the Croatian public during January and February, I will quote a text from the media "The House Commission of the Defence Ministry cannot resolve the request of Sisak-Moslavina Mayor Ivo Žinić in the Zagreb settlement of Borovje until the Parliament votes to amend and supplement the current law on defenders." This Parliament, this law, the one Žinić, since it can be assumed that the Ministry of Defence has not overly broken up in resolving the judicial aspect of the case, and that even you have questioned the authority of the President of the Parliament's authority to answer parliamentary questions, we have a very simple question. Are you going to solve Mr. Žinić's problem with this law or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39174	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39175	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Here I want to and related to a specific case, to say that 67 are similar objects, they're a long-term subject since '94. so here, which connects with the Croatian Defence Ministry, it is also important to stress that the court proceedings are under way and during the trial, the Croatian Defence Ministry cannot access the action.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39176	The second one's up, fellow Sacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39177	Dear Ministers and Vice-President of the Government, Mr. Medved, Croatian General. As you know, the President of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Franjo Tudjman, is here in '96. Mr. said in this assembly home that the total Homeland War was from '91 to '95. won 33 527 Croatian defenders. Today we have them in the register of 504,000, over 504,000. Tell me, in your term of office, how many Croatian defenders, what combat or non-combat sector, did you produce?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39178	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39179	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I believe that you are familiar with the procedure and that you well know the laws, competencies, so you know that the status of Croatian defender is not regulated by the Croatian Defence Ministry but by the Ministry of Defence for those Croatian defenders who were members of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defence for those who were their members. Therefore, the law allowed the competent authorities to act in accordance with the law, it allowed those Croatian defenders who, due to the limitations of the period of time, then, because of the abolition of this deadline in the period since the entry into force, followed and followed the continued conduct of both the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defence as regards the regulation of status.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39180	The third one's up, Comrade Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39181	Thank you very much. Minister, after 30 years of the Homeland War, the beginning of great Serbian aggression, this is the fifth amendment to the law. When we passed the law three years ago, that was when I warned you. He's been making amendments that he's inconclusive. Can you tell us here how many Croatian defenders have made their claim for their status, and they have not experienced their own status, which means if we have a number that does not mean the law was enforceable. And that's the basic problem that we have five laws so far, and they're not enforceable. Along with those deadlines, the HDZ government of Jadranka Kosor as defence minister then or I don't know who Ivo Sanader was, so one more question. How many Croatian defenders died without making a request under this law without achieving Your rights? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39182	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39183	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative, this is a very important question and a very sensitive question. Therefore, because of the time spent in the Homeland War and the horrors experienced by Croatian defenders in the defense of their homeland, unfortunately, great mortality is present with Croatian defenders. So there were 445,000 Croatian defenders living at 1.1.2017. At 1.1.2020 he was 430,000 Croatian defenders. Thus, it depicts the great mortality of Croatian defenders as a consequence of participation in the defence of the country. Among other things, this is one of the reasons why we propose amendments and amendments to the law here with the aim of speeding up all processes that are related to their status.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39184	Comrade Nadj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39185	Dear Vice-Presidents' Government and Croatian Defence Ministers, do you think you have actually failed your comrades with whom you protested in the tent for 555 days against the then officials because you have actually passed a law that is inconclusive, and you have chosen associates who have no ethical integrity, so we will remind Stjepan Sučić, Nevenka Benic, Ivan Vukic, therefore the state secretary who had to leave. So the question is, have you let down your comrades?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39186	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39187	Dear Madam Representative, I expected much more from you since you spent many years in the Ministry of Croatian Defence, that you were a State Secretary and what saddens the fact that even today you cannot accept the fact that you were a state secretary when Croatian military disabled men at your door protested 555 days which is certainly a unique example in history. That the winning army is protesting in front of its ministry looking for a conversation that they haven't won. I also expected you to look back at the measure we're proposing here because you're from '98. By 2015, you were a key person related to the model that we are proposing to return, and in 2015 you did not oppose the exclusion of such a form but you accepted the fact that the entire system is completely unwarranted grouping into the single body of art and the ZOSI.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39188	Thank you. My fellow Witness, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39189	Dear Minister, I ask the question why the families of the deceased defenders, so those who died after 2009 cannot exercise their rights? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39190	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39191	It is difficult to give a concrete answer to this principle, so we receive thousands of requests on a daily basis regarding status regulation. You are also witnesses in 2017 when we represented the law here and these measures that we are proposing here today that they are currently directed towards all cases of persons who have not previously exercised their right, and I believe that this particular object was also caused by measures while Ms Nadj was the State Secretary of the Ministry of Croatian Defence because of her impasse, which for many years was limited time for the submission of the regulation of any form of status.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39192	Comrade Grman Kizavitt, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39193	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, first of all, I would like to point out that I do not wish to raise my question in any doubt the rights of the defenders they have, but in the 15th 10th year, I asked you a representative question regarding the assignment of cars to wartime disabled and category. In fact, we know that they get a new car every 7 years. Then I asked in my representative question why these cars would not, for example, be assigned to parents or carers, associations, etc. The answer from your ministry was that it was orthopedic aid. So if we know that our defenders need to get it, every 7 years they get a new orthopedic aid, why these old orthopedic aids, old cars for 7 years couldn't be assigned to civilian disabled people, for example, because being a real 7-year-old car isn't an old car when the average age of a car is 15 years in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39194	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39195	Thank you very much. Of course I understand your question and that on several occasions we have considered this issue with all the associations. It is always the following conclusion, which stems from the views of the members of the committee, and the members of the commission are persons with disabilities. Therefore, it is certain that each motor vehicle which is specially adapted falls within the order or category of orthopaedic aid because it adapts, as such, to the damage of the organism or specifically to that person and, unfortunately, is not possible for that reason, so it is not possible to return the vehicle to its original state and prepare it for or for the purposes of damage to that other person. But we, I believe today during the debate and on the civilian victims of the Homeland War will also look back on this issue where we also predicted as a measure for the civilian victims of Homeland. Wartime vehicle repairs. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39196	Comrade Maric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39197	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, you said 66,814 preventative defences have been carried out so far. Up to 12. In 2019, 45,800 were carried out, which means that in 2020, not even 21,000 were completed which was less than in 2018 and 2019, and the plan was 24,000. Secondly, 29 hospitals and KBC take part in the review, it is insufficient, especially in some regions of Split-Dalmatia, Primorje-Gorskiska is not covered, how will you solve this too small number of hospitals involved? And the next thing I know, I'm a health care professional on several occasions doing systematic checks, some respond more, some defenders respond multiple times, and some don't respond at all, how do you plan to improve this public health drip and motivate people? For example, in 2018, 70,000 calls were made, and 21,000 all responded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39198	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39199	Thank you very much for this extremely important question. So, a brief reminder, the ministry in the earlier period while Ms. Nadj was the secretary of state, at the annual level, carried out about 1,000 reviews for all Croatian defenders, so about 10 million kuna, the signing of a contract with a private polyclinic, and that was at the annual level of 1000 Croatian defenders. I personally supervised and directed this process as a basic prerequisite we signed with 29 contract institutions, developed with the health profession model and launched the process. The fact is that so far we have carried out that at the annual level it was about 20,000 reviews, but because of the pandemic and the restrictions we have on the burden of the health system, unfortunately in 2020. That number's down. But there are certain hospitals that go as far as possible under these circumstances, and we will continue for sure as soon as conditions are made for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39200	Thank you, Minister. Let's move on, colleague Pavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39201	Dear Minister. I have one question for the participants of the Homeland War. By the way, you know it was '91, '92. A large number of our fellow citizens who have gone to the front and who have already been in assembly places have actually been withdrawn from these chamber seats and have been returned to their jobs because they had to work to establish the independence and sovereignty of our Republic. There were important tasks in the ministries, there were important jobs in local self-government, and these people were actually given a work obligation. Are you in art. 15th Old Law or Art. 3. this proposal in the item that you added item h and after that another provision that you as minister will bring, were you thinking of these people or of others?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39202	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39203	If I understand you correctly talking about the status of a participant in the Homeland War, then this is one of the measures that we predicted in 2017. Here we must separate the status of Croatian defender from the status of participant of the Homeland War. Namely, here is exactly the category of people who were not Croatian defenders, who did not defend their country with weapons and for which there is no basis for obtaining the status of Croatian defenders, but through the law we tried to identify those people who in a certain way contributed to the defence of their country and in a symbolic way to give them thanks. I'll set it up for example. I will also separate certain crews of ships carrying troops of the Croatian military and therefore other services and, of course, it is an important category, with the note that we must always bear in mind that they are not Croatian defenders but participants of the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39204	Hey, buddy Buck, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39205	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister. As a source of the necessary means for the implementation of this law in the pension section, the activity A 7530-10 pensions of Croatian defenders, as well as the activities A 688-046-047 and 048 are listed as peaceful based on insurance of the elderly, disabled and family. Shouldn't all the additional pension costs stemming from this law, however, not all this cost should be charged solely by the activities of Croatian defenders' pension? Does not this seem to be a new pressure on workers' pensions, i.e. on pensions earned by insurance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39206	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39207	Thank you very much for asking. There are often times when this question is raised in public. When we talk about Croatian defenders, we must be aware of the fact that it is people who are the most responsible for the freedom that we have today, but that it is people who have spent most of their lives working on other jobs before the Homeland War and that these people have a full-time job, that they are working around 30 years. So, if you're interested, we can provide you with the entire structure of age and the entire structure of work experience, so you can personally see to the extent that these Croatian defenders have done their full-time work.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39208	My colleague Vlasic Iljkić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39209	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister. How many new defenders, or those whose status as defenders, are recognised on the basis of participations in national protection, who have already retired according to previous regulations or the Pension Insurance Act, and are now not entitled to recalculate pensions or what are the number of re-trials rejected by the HZMO despite the fact that the practices or judgments of administrative courts that annul HZMO solutions are in the first and second stages? I assume that this information is familiar to you, since you've now said how many artificial proceedings are in the Office of Arts and that's a very important piece of information because it's actually talking about what number the court rulings are not respected, and the number is very large in our knowledge?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39210	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39211	Thank you very much. One of the reasons why we should have all jurisdiction, and in terms of treating Croatian defenders or in supporting and implementing all the measures in the law, we have foreseen this amendment and supplementing the law. You mentioned a whole series of HZMO jurisdiction here. Of course we share knowledge and information with Mirovinski Insurance on a weekly basis. He would also invite you, in a specific case for concrete indicators, ask the Ministry of Croatian Defence and we will provide you with all indicators.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39212	Comrade Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39213	As Winston Churchill said, if you don't want to solve a problem, then set up a commission. It seems to me that the establishment of a committee in the Ministry of Defence is exactly the step, so according to greater non-transparency and non-resolvement of the public suspicions both in the Ministry of Defence and in the rights of the defenders who are being exercised through the Ministry. So how are we going to solve the problem, such as the problem of usurping the apartment in Zagreb, Mayor Žinić, who refuses to leave the apartment. Isn't the commission just one step towards not solving this problem, or how do you see such committees as a step towards greater transparency, greater efficiency, greater expertise and greater independence?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39214	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39215	Thank you very much. I do not know what kind of committee you are here and where you are from my presentation, and I believe that you have thoroughly studied the bill, saw the commission, so I have not said a word about the commission, but the council that will be established in the Croatian Defence Ministry with the aim of taking over Croatian defenders in the art process, unlike the existing model that is implemented in the unique body of art, in the ZOSI. So all this stuff you've listed, I don't see anything absolutely anywhere in the bill that you could rely on when you mention a commission like this. I'll do it again for you. So the Croatian Defence Ministry acts transparently, acts legally, and in terms of possible unlawful use of dwellings, we act spotlessly, but we respect both judicial decisions and when a court ruling is reached, the Ministry is acting without a doubt.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39216	Thank you. Comrade Mlinarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39217	Dear Mr. Minister Bear. Tell me, do you also feel responsible for such frequent amendments to the law, the addition of Croatian defenders to the public that it is a privileged group and that the public is already starting, would dare to say and hate those people who gave everything for this Croatia, and the only one who is privileged in this country, is your coalition partner of the SDSS and I would ask you to tell me how much the status of the SAO militia used the status of a volunteer of the Homeland War, if we know that the '97 MUP. Mr. translated the militia into the MUP. Tell me how many of them it uses, the rights of the National War Voluntary Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39218	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39219	Thank you very much. Therefore, the relationship between society and the state towards Croatian defenders and perceptions where Croatian defenders are viewed with a distorted image, to the greatest extent contributes to false and insinuating statements regarding the relationship with Croatian defenders. I don't know what you find too common, so this law was passed in 2017, today in 2021, we follow at the monthly level, we analyze the processes, we see where there is a stalemate, and precisely with the aim of removing these delays and legal action, we propose amendments and additions to this law so that, in an acceptable period of time, we can do or consume all measures, and about this issue of those persons who were members of enemy formations, and you yourself said that you know, So I don't need to give you any further clarifications. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39220	Comrade Kirin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39221	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. The problems of the defence population are often discussed by those who were not defenders and even fewer volunteers. I mean, this amended law will definitely solve that population's problems as much as possible. A former labour minister and pension system declares, citizens will have fewer and veterans will have more pensions. I think that's uncritical. It may be that veterans will have more pensions, but that's fair, but citizens will not be reduced to their pensions. It's the introduction of unrest and animosity towards defenders. What do you think about that?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39222	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39223	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So, I will repeat that in 2017 and then to this day that our government has made a strong step towards correcting many injustices related to the relationship with Croatian defenders, what we are talking about today, changes and additions to the law are precisely on the grounds that those procedures that have lasted too long, we find mechanisms and solutions that can be implemented within the law of the envisaged deadline, so you are right, and one of the former ministers created chaos in 2015 in terms of this system by forming this unique body of art, this ZOSI, so where thousands and thousands of people are waiting for the order of skill.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39224	Let's move on. Comrade Mažur, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39225	I thank the President, the Honorable Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Minister of Croatian Defence, today we have the amendment and addition of the Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and one of the intentions of these changes is to speed up the process of living care of Croatian defenders and members of their families. How can we see in the changes themselves, except for the possibility of buying apartments on the free market, related to those parts of the country where it is not made to go to residential construction or not profitable. The amendment is also mentioned in part of inter-resorship cooperation between the state administration and the decision-making of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so I would ask you to explain in a procedural sense how much this will speed up the process itself and allow an increased number of housing care at the annual level of our Croatian defenders, our heroes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39226	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39227	Thank you very much, Reverend Mazhar. So you've also made a good point, and you've also seen through the report, to what extent progress has been made towards intensifying housing care. The relationship between the Ministry of Croatian Defence and all the authorities of the state administration, mainly with the Central State Office, whose head you were at recently resulted in a truly respectable number of over 4,000 residential care, so the family of victims of the Homeland War. Here in these proposed amendments, we further envisioned the simplification or acceleration of procedures so that between the bodies available to the Croatian Defence Ministry and the Croatian Defence Ministry, we would regulate or resolve the assignment of those families that have been waiting for housing for many years.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39228	Comrade Barbaric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39229	I would like to thank the Honorable President of HS, the Honorable Minister. The National Development Strategy, a document recently adopted in this assembly, devotes an important chapter to the relationship towards Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, advocates the unity of the country's emigrant Croatia and gives the accent a reference to the Croats in BiH. In thanks to everything that this government and you personally do for the Croats in BiH, I would like to inform you that the Department of Defence at the Croatian National Assembly supports the amendments and additions to this law in the section concerning the rights of members of the HVO. Dear Ministers, we too have an obligation to protect the integrity of the Homeland War, to take care of the defenders, the question of the truth about the Homeland War is a matter of full equality and guardians of the issue of the survival of the Croats in BiH, can we continue to count on your support in solving and numerous problems of the defence population that we fail to solve on our own?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39230	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39231	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So again, a reminder of the law of 2017. which we have worked in partnership with the Associations of the Homeland War where there has been a very large number of associations of HVO members and victims from the ranks of HVO members, as well as cooperation with the Croatian National Assembly and in this law we have very clearly defined the relations and position of HVO members and on this trail we will continue our efforts and future and thank you for your cooperation and support.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39232	Comrade Deur, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39233	Dear President and Vice President, Croatian Defence Ministers. You yourself said that during all this time by taking over the Croatian Defence Ministry you entered into one, a chaos as Miranda Mrsic called Croatian defenders "burned country". From solicitation to the rights of Croatian defenders to systematic examinations of whether we can call this today not new rights, not new laws, but a unique law which unfortunately was crucified by all other ministries and to understand that you and our colleagues would invite them to a truly one consultation at the Ministry of Croatian Defence headed by our General Sačić to give them one counsel to really all together why and what was going on in front of the Croatian Defence Ministry and that today is a quality and well-made unity for the whole law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39234	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39235	Thank you very much, Reverend Deur. So always all MPs in HS, as well as all interested welcome to the Croatian Defence Ministry with the aim of obtaining full information about all the efforts we make in our ministry. The fact is and you have well pointed out that here we are talking about another measure which, through previous history, has been dispersed and isolated from the Croatian Defence Ministry and that we are now re-equitablely returning it to the jurisdiction of the Croatian Defence Ministry, and therefore I remind you that this form, this art model, has been from the establishment of the Croatian Defence Ministry until 2015. when, like some other measures, they are detached from the ministry and placed in other bodies, we are thus creating an assumption of normal and smooth functioning and the application of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39236	Comrade Jelkovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39237	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor. I welcome these changes that are here today, which we are discussing and, above all, I would like to point out for the public that we are not introducing new rights for Croatian defenders with these amendments, just reintroducing that the disability assessment bodies are at the Ministry of the Croatian Defence as they were, as you said by 2015, and this is for the reasons of speeding up the procedure because our Croatian defenders deserve it. I have to say because I was part of that system myself, that it was at wartime, and until 2015. These committees that were separate worked much faster, waited for the call after the case was sent about 30 to 60 days, we see how long it is today, and therefore I think this is justified. I just want to know if you'll be able to establish the committees immediately, as soon as possible, and the ones who are now waiting for you. in the procedure? [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39238	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39239	Thank you very much, Mr. Jelkovac. Of course, by law, we will begin that process of public calling for the selection of specialists of doctors who will be engaged in these tasks by prescribing the methodology and the beginning of their work in order to create a prerequisite as soon as possible for Croatian defenders who have been waiting for the implementation of this procedure as soon as possible and to pass the skill process. So, absolutely thank you for your support and I believe that with the implementation of the measures we have foreseen through these amendments and additions to the law, we will achieve the desired effect.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39240	Now it's my colleague Dretar's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39241	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. This is how the distinguished representative Deur opens the door of the ministry and so do you for a good counselling, then give the Croatian public a little piece of advice. 29 May 2015 Protesters cried out, and one of their leaders shouted, "You will allow Borovo Selo to have a monument to the 12 Croatian police killer," please advise the Croatian public now, what happened because the monument of the Svetina Šoškocan is still standing? What happened to you that suddenly that monument doesn't bother you or maybe you even loved it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39242	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39243	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. MP, the subject of today's debate is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Croatian Defence, and I believe that you have studied it and have read and seen what this content of the proposed text refers to. I still think that this monument is unacceptable, but I will kindly ask you to contact the competent body, which is a municipal enterprise that is responsible for managing the facilities located in the cemetery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39244	Comrade Simičević, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39245	I thank the president of HS. Honorable Vice President, Croatian Defence Minister. You are a true hero of the Homeland War and you know best the needs of Croatian defenders. I'm going to do two things here, so first, the thesis is that it's not time to pass this law. I don't think time can be in front of Croatian defenders, so it's the right time to correct what is perceived to be wrong. And so, in the 2017 law, you saw that legislator before you, you confronted him that he had illogicalness and now he wants to make it right and give the Croatian defenders what they belong to. So the Croatian defenders did not go to the Homeland War to exercise their rights, he went to war because he loved his country, because he wanted an independent Croatian state, because he wanted freedom for his Croatian people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39246	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39247	You've exactly and well described the procedure yourself. So, then 2017. With a serious analysis, a comprehensive analysis, we have seen all the difficulties that Croatian defenders face. Over the years, the law has been distributed to different sectors in different competences, and then we are 2017. recognized key issues, opened deadlines and began with the application of the law. With constant monitoring and evaluation, we have identified where the difficulties in implementing or consummating the law of the rights provided, and we are now proposing amendments and additions in order to create in the organisational light the preconditions for full implementation of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39248	Comrade Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39249	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS. Croatian Deputy Prime Minister and Defence Minister. By passing the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers and members of their families on 14 December 2018. The legal uncertainty and existential uncertainty of Croatian defenders and members of their families, disabled Homeland War, imprisoned and missing. Please return nicely to the law of parent law all the rights which were distributed in social care, so part of the Croatian defenders was the social cases that Milanka Opačić led. Part of those defenders who were in retirement where Miranda wanted to separate pensions from what you earned in a working relationship and what you earned from the state of Croatia as a defender and you put it all in this law that resulted in the results that were unseen. They've been described on several pages, so please repeat what's been done over the past three years.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39250	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39251	Thank you, well-respected representative Djakic. Therefore, it certainly was extremely important in the adoption of this law to create legal certainty and restore the trust of Croatian defenders in bodies that are responsible for the relationship with Croatian defenders, but also in society as a whole. What I will single out only these parameters and repeat were closed deadlines for recognising the status of Croatian defenders, closed deadlines for recognition of HRVI, set aside that social measure from the ministry transferred to the social community, but there should also be stressed that half of those people who were transferred to the social community did not have the opportunity to receive that social compensation, that there were solutions to the separation of pensions, which was largely created by legal uncertainty and one of the first measures that our government had done had returned the model and combined those solutions to a unique amount.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39252	Thank you. Comrade Klaric, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39253	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Government and Croatian Defence Ministers. This week I met with representatives of the Shark Special Police Association who are based in my city, all of what you were saying in the introduction and what you just said confirms your words. They are immeasurably grateful and all their words suggest good cooperation from the Ministry of Croatian Defence and support for your personal realization of their projects. What's the point of this law is that certainly every one of us needs support is exactly a cut of those deadlines because life is short, two years of waiting is something abnormal for a long time. And what should be pointed out here is that all those defenders who have acquired pension rights under the general rules can expect this law to grow their pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39254	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39255	Thank you very much. That's right, so here, along with all these organisational measures to speed up the whole process, we also have the harmonisation of certain forms of retirement. I believe that Croatian defenders, particularly those Croatian defenders who are retired under general rules, will be extremely pleased by the content of the proposed measures in this law. Everything we do in terms of support, understanding of the real situation and helping against Croatian defenders. So here is the correction of another set of earlier injustices, and mainly related to pension rights and pensions that Croatian defenders have received deservedly. Let us remind once again that Croatian defenders spent most of their lives working, and they spent some of their lives defending their country.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39256	Comrade Balic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39257	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Croatian Defence, you said in your opening statement that it is necessary or proposed by the proposed law that, because of the long-term state of the art process, the previous expert assessment was carried out in health institutions that were further difficult at the time of the Covid-19 pandemic, so you suggest that it be abolished or returned to the authority of the Croatian Defence Ministry as a model that worked until 2015. Can you please explain who would be performing these articulations, exactly by which model and how many items are currently on hold? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39258	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39259	Thank you very much, Mr. Balic. Therefore, the proposed amendments and amendments to the law envision the establishment of 4 councils in the jurisdiction of the Croatian Defence Ministry that would act in Split, Rijeka, Osijek and Zagreb. After the adoption of the amendments and the addition of the laws, we would approach a public call for the selection of specialist doctors who would conduct art, namely, the entire organisation related to their work and the team would create a premise for the acceleration of the whole process, and is currently in the Office of Arts about 3,000 Croatian defenders waiting for a long period of skill.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39260	Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39261	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Vice President, it is interesting that today we are discussing the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Croatian defenders and members of their families and the Law on Civil Victims of the Homeland War, on this very day when you are celebrating your birthday. So here I am using the opportunity on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club to congratulate you on your birthday, as well as on everything you have done to improve the status of Croatian defenders. What I would like to ask you is whether the amendment of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers and the Law on Civil Victims of the Homeland War will lead to a significant increase in the number of Croatian wartime disabled and civilian victims of the Homeland War as some say. If so, do you have any information as to how much would be and what are the reasons why they can even read from laws that would lead to such an increase? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39262	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39263	Thank you very much, Commissioner Bačić, and thank you very much for your congratulations, of course we have, as we did in 2017 when we presented the assessment of the fiscal impact here and when we presented projections related to the possible number of consumers and users of this law, and then we clearly showed that we had very precise indicators when we looked at the situation in detail. So it's now when we talk about the numerical indicators of 3,000 people waiting at the Office of Art. Through my opening part of the exhibition, I have presented what number of Croatian defenders has passed through the bodies of art, how many of which are solved positive, how many negative. As far as the Civil Victims Act of the Homeland War is concerned, even though this is the second item of the agenda, our projection is going to be about 2,500 new users. Right. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39264	Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39265	Dear Minister, we are a poor society, and I'm afraid the government today allows monuments to the Chetniks, and it has nothing to do with any municipal enterprise in the Borovo municipality, it has to do with the Government of the Republic of Croatia and with the Law on Cemeteries that this government or some other one has to solve. But back to today's Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Croatian Defence, I think it is correct that you want those difficulties to be changed in practice. I'm curious, here's the last three years of how long this existing law has been in force, how many of you have had the status requirements and how many of them have been positively resolved and how much has been rejected?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39266	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39267	Dear Mr. Representative, I didn't understand your status, so are we talking about the status of the Croatian defence attorney or are we talking about the status of a Croatian wartime wartime invalid? If we talk about the status of Croatian defender, I will remind you, therefore, that the law stipulates that the status of Croatian defenders is regulated by the Ministry of Defence for people who have spent part of their war route as members of the Ministry of Defence, and for the status of the Ministry of Defence and for the status of the MUP for members who were in their composition. I will remind you and repeat the total number of Croatian defenders, so in 2017, at the time we passed this law there were 445,000 living from 1.1.2021 in 430,000 living Croatian defenders and I believe you understand the relations or number of Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39268	Thank you. Comrade Petyr, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39269	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Croatian defenders are responsible for the creation of the Croatian state, their sacrifice and their courage should be in some way an incentive and a role model for all of us and should therefore, through the activities we are carrying out, show respect for them. We are aware that it is not always so, that individuals and we have heard through some debates here today, they feel so in their heart that I would like you to say what the ministry is doing and can still do to get to know the victim and the contribution of Croatian defenders to the creation of the Croatian state and how would everyone treat them with respect? I would also like to commend the activity of using European funds to build 4 veteran centres aimed at helping defenders, to support them, in Sisak, Sinj, Sibenik and Daruvar So I'm curious about what stage of performance this project is? [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39270	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39271	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Commissioner Petyr. First, this issue of veteran centres and dynamics, so during yesterday's day, the Prime Minister and I took a tour of the construction of the Veteran Centre in Daruvar where we were convinced that the works are progressing according to the planned dynamics, and the same applies to Sibenik and Sinj, in Petrinja we have some difficulties and what are the consequences of the earthquakes and I believe that we will remove these consequences and achieve this dynamic. The planned completion of the 4 veterans center is December of this year and by 2023 the equipment and installation of all 4 veteran centres, which is certainly a strong contribution in support of all activities carried out by associations from the Homeland War and especially by every Croatian defender and victim in the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39272	Thank you. Comrade Milanović litre, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39273	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister Medved, as wartime commander and general of the Croatian Army, I will ask you a specific question and expect a concrete answer. On 15 January 1996, the President of the Republic of Croatia Dr. Franjo Tudjman reported in a report on the state of the Croatian state and nation, the High House reported that 337 579 monuments of the Homeland War were distributed from the combat and non-combat sectors. In 2017, when the register was closed, there were 505 664. As your colleagues, you have not answered the questions, I will ask one more question. At first, when you became Minister of Defense, how many new cases were received, how many were approved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39274	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39275	Dear Mr. Representative, I'll tell you again. So today there are 430,000 Croatian defenders. 1 / 1, 2 / 1, 2 / 1, 2 / 1, 2 / 1, 2 / 1, 2 / 1, 2 / 1, 2 / 1, 2 / 1, 2 / 1, 2 / 1, 2 / 1, 2 / 1, 2 / 15, 1 / 15, 1 / 15, 1 / 15, 1 / 15, 1 / 15, 1 / 15, 1 / I will repeat, so today we have 430,000 living Croatian defenders and that is the answer to your question.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39276	And we are going to the last replica to present the Deputy Prime Minister and Croatian Defence Minister, a respected counterpart, Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39277	Your Honors Minister, the question is simple, you didn't give an answer just now, I'll repeat it. How long since the adoption of the Law on Defense, the defender has gained status? So, what's the status of defense attorneys in the last three years? Is it a complicated question?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39278	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39279	So, Your Honor, it's not a complicated question, and moreover, it's very simple and I'll remind you of the law and the law has prescribed who solves the statuses, I'll repeat. So for persons who have spent part of their war route in Croatian military troops to recognise the status of Croatian defenders, the Ministry of Defence is responsible. For persons who have spent their part of the war route in the MUP, it is the responsibility of the MUP. All administrative procedures carried out from the basis of the application for recognition of the Croatian defender, these ministries, which are responsible for the regulation of status, according to the regulation of status, are submitted to the Croatian Defence Ministry for further action.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39280	Thank you, Minister, you can return to your seat, we're done with the replicas. Now I'm gonna call the committee's reporters, will they take their word for it? Yes, the chairman of the War Veterans Committee, dear colleague Djakic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39281	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers and members of their families, which the Committee on War Veterans discussed at its second session on 20 January. According to the proposing representatives, a fundamental law adopted 3 years ago is required to introduce certain improvements in order to adapt the needs of users. It is primarily necessary to speed up the process of achieving the status of the Croatian military disabled in the Homeland War, which currently lasts for over 2 years due to normal and existential problems. Organisational problems are also present, and it is also necessary to speed up the housing of the victims' defenders, to enable all pension insurance rights for Croatian defenders who have acquired status after the entry into force of the law or reopening the deadline for obtaining the status of the Croatian defender, to enable the achievement of benefits for the unemployed, one-time financial assistance for all the socially endangered Croatian defenders and it is necessary that certain provisions are newly developed for uniform interpretation and clarity. For the implementation of this law, it is necessary to ensure in the division of the Ministry of Labour, Pensions, Family and Social Policy over 3 years 45 million kn and in the division of the Ministry of Croatian Defence 8.4 million kn in 3 years. In the debate, members of the board mainly supported the proposed amendments and additions to address the problems identified in the implementation of the applicable law. This proposal certainly does not remove all problems because the financial opportunities of the Republic of Croatia must be taken into account. From the remarks tabled by the colleagues, the proposals and opinions presented in the debate have been made clear that the 15-day period for public consultation was 15 days, which is also recorded in this report. The problem of harmonising the personal disability for HRVI from the Homeland War with the growth of the average salary of all employees in the Republic of Croatia, speeding up the procedure for obtaining the right to a disability pension, speeding up the exercise of the right to housing for HRI from the Homeland War, the right of members of the HVO should be extended by an additional annex to the contract with BiH that resolves the rights of members of the HVO and members of their families. Instead of setting up new committees, the Institute of Arts should improve or strengthen both organisational and humanely, thereby profiting other categories of persons, especially from the field of social care, and the process itself would be accelerated. The articles of the law which prescribes the right to advantage in employment under equal conditions should be further regulated so that the law can be consumed when a person is called upon to act. 22. Constitutional law on the rights of national minorities, the application of the death of the Croatian defenders in order to exercise the right to the costs of burial should take place on official duty, not on application. Here is the War Veterans Committee with most votes supported the amendments and additions of this law to benefit Croatian defenders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39282	Thank you. The Legislative Committee. There isn't. I'm opening a debate. The first is the Club of Representatives Mosta representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39283	Thank you very much. Ministers with their associates, colleagues and colleagues. Dear Croatian defenders in HS and those in front of small screens. Today we are talking about the fifth amendment of the Law on Croatian Defences after 30 years since the start of the Homeland War i.e. Greater Serbian aggressions of Montenegro and JNA. When we talk about this law, which is 2017. The last one that was brought in at the time I was speaking from this pay phone that simply that the law would be inadmissible. I've been making amendments, part of the minister has adopted, but not enough. That's when I said we'd simply be Croatian defenders, here I am in '72. The year, and when the Homeland War started, I was 19, I had already done a good job, so it's already an older population. And it is true that when you look at the results of this law passed three years ago, which you are now passing after three years, 500 Croatian defenders have died, which has requested a respected minister. I asked you how many Croatian defenders, which is the basis of this law, gave a valid application for the exercise of rights, which means that you have passed a law that is inconclusive after three years and what is worst always in pre-election times, always in pre-election time, and the foundation of the state is also Croatian defenders in police units and in the units of the MUP then, the troops of the Croatian army and the units of the HOS and the charity teams do not deserve pre-election games because this really is a serious time. If we're just passing laws to send messages in pre-election time, then literally with what we should sensitize ourselves, we're mocking the foundations of the state with people who are in the foundations of the state. Is the Croatian defender and Croatian soldier and the truth about the Croatian soldier very important, however, to manipulate all the legal consequences are very important and they must be both content and implementation feasible. I can give an example, he mentioned the minister of health problems of Croatian defenders and the great mortality of our comrades, unfortunately, I will say an example of how much care is being taken in the example of Knin, the city of victory. In Knin there is Veteran Hospital and General Hospital Croatian Pride, the only one in Dalmatia Zagorje i.e. in the back of the Dalmatian mountain, I have warned countless times about the problems of this significant veteran hospital because it bears the name Veterans and General Hospital, can you believe that in that hospital medical staff does not receive travel expenses that care for our veterans, can you believe that the physical therapy pool is not restored, that the minister knows well. So we're the only ones showing up on the Storm in the city that's my town, I mean, where I worked 13 years from Storm until 2008. And it's my happiest day when we saw Knin from the Dinara Mountains, but let's remember those parts, the Croatian defenders in those days. And the hospital that bears the name in Knin Croatian pride is forgotten where the tribal would take care of Croatian veterans, forgotten. And today, when I look at this law and application and I remember the debate three years ago, I can do the same thing again. That's when I was talking, let's not pass the law unless we've made it possible to implement it. Implementation is not enabled, skills are invested, the minister could say more about the precisely invested funds. Advocacy, the art of human beings has led to an even worse situation than they have been. The law gave them false hope and faith in the exercise of their rights. And false hope to give people who created the foundations of the state, false hope to give now if in pre-election time, we do the same thing, it is a disaster because Croatian defenders are the foundation of the state. The foundation. Here is not a question of colleagues and colleagues in which we are foreigners and Croatian defenders sitting here regardless of the left or right, here is the issue of the foundation of the state. Because the Croatian state and this Croatian Parliament were created on the basis of the Homeland War, on the basis of the Homeland War, the unity of the Croatian people and the most prominent of their sons. Therefore, with the amendment of 70 articles, it literally seems to have changed the whole law adopted in 2017, i.e. 3 years ago, 2018. So we're literally changing the whole law now. The same day, today, I'm sorry that your coalition partner didn't get involved here because a large number of Serbian nationalities participated in the Homeland War. In all units of HOS, Croatian Army, police. And those 10,000 people deserve a special place in all our memories, speeches, and mostly those who have lost their lives. That's why I'd like their attitude here. And their position, however, is time and it is not time today to talk about civil sacrifice law, it is one law that was needed, which was resolved immediately after the Homeland War. I remember, my first amendment here was the removal of funds, the withdrawal of funds to Stjepan Mesic from the office. Do you know where the first funds that I gave the amendment went, had no kuna until then? Associations dealing with the civilian victims of the Homeland War. The funds that were downloaded, I came in, my first amendment was to take off from the office of Stjepan Mesic, former president of the civilian victims of the Homeland War. It is the first time that they have been in the budget, however, it does not choose a grenade of Serbian if it is a Croat, whether it is a Serb citizen or a Roma, people who participated in the Homeland War, I must also mention here, here I see a colleague of Kajtazi here, meaning she did not choose a Chetnic grenade to be wounded and those civilian victims deserve the law but do not deserve the Chetniks who fired that grenade, which can handle the documentation in Banja Luka, which can solve in Belgrade. Such a compromise must not be. The aggressors are not allowed to get rights by law on civilian victims, but the Croatian defender, when we talk about this today and the Croatian public must know, that from this law, and I believe that I must say, that I must say right during this debate, which is proposed that those fighters, the Serbs, the butchers, we do not have all their lists. Those units, the bad guys. And that's that bad compromise with the people who attacked the Republic of Croatia. Catastrophelan. And that's the humiliation of civilian victims of the Homeland War and military casualties. If it's a coalition agreement, Your Honor, then it's a disaster. If it's a compromise that criminals through civil sacrifice laws that follow behind this, they exercise their rights, it's a disaster. It is time for you respected ministers, Prime Minister Plenkovic, Milorad Pupovac,... to the coalition partner in the European Police Party, i.e. Your member, Alexander Vukic, solve the war damage and that they pay and not that we pay those who threw grenades here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is time to make our views clear because of the truth about the Homeland War, based on the Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39284	The next debate is on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club of Representatives, the distinguished representative Željko Sačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39285	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, Associates, colleagues and colleagues, Croatian public. Mr. Chairman, I would remind you that the time of the Anti-Coron break has come, I am sorry that you have not declared it, if we are already holding all the other measures and transfer of the session of the Croatian Parliament and interrupted because of the Civil Protection Staff, then we should have in the Assembly here that we do not have to further infect ourselves if this disease of hara so please try to open up a little windows after my presentation. We are talking today about an extremely important topic, a strong law that touches the very foundations of this Croatian society and we have already said in the introduction and through the replicas that the Presidency of the Croatian Parliament should not have allowed, it was not necessary to give in to the executive authorities and Prime Minister Plenkovic and the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister to influence the order and schedule of topics in the agenda. Today, he had no right to be in one day of a balanced sabit and the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers and the Law on Civil Victims of the Homeland War. It has a significant impact on the quality of the debate, on the other hand the Croatian public cannot monitor it, these are huge deficits of democracy in Croatia. What to say now and of course we will always point to that gap, and not until Friday when we vote on it. We will show you dear colleagues and colleagues from HDZ that you were wrong and that you abuse these 76 hands at the expense of the Croatian public and democracy. As far as this law is concerned, Mr. Medved and the secretary of state, we certainly commend all the good you've done since 2017. here, I agree with everyone who says you opened the door, did both legal security and social and financial security for many categories of Croatian defenders. However, what you did in 2017 with the beginning of the 2018 phase, you made one compromise out of nothing, you allowed what my colleague Bulj is now entitled to, then it was already needed to be closed that book, everything that was known to be in the system of achieving the rights of potential and real Croatian wartime people or defenders, already after 505 days or so of consulting together in a protest before the Ministry of Defence, already at that time you knew where these bottlenecks were and already you should have stopped it under certain legal frameworks in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, respecting the equality and legality of the conduct of the protection of that category that I am now hearing you have 3,000 as I understandd at the Institute for the Skilling of This Potential Croatian War Disabilities, which await your right, and in the meantime 500 of these potential Croatian disabled persons died without waiting for your status. That shouldn't have happened. Why didn't you do it? Your responsibility, my dear. In view of these circumstances, it is difficult to understand, but we are not able to take the impression that you are motivated by this legislation and amendments to the local elections that are ahead of us today, and on the other hand to conceal the deep, deep dubiosis of the Law on Civil Victims of the Homeland War, where I will pay particular attention and explain and clearly specify both the articles and the laws where you have tried to impose some kind of an incomprehensible expression on the benefit of the application of the rights under this law on people who do not deserve it. We're here to stop you and remind you that's wrong. Now when we look at the article itself, let's say the 15th of this participation in the Homeland War, you explained it, these are people who have no status, have not achieved the status of Croatian defenders, but have contributed in some way to freedom, sovereignty, etc. Well, I think, Mr. Minister, it's unacceptable that you, along with these existing and valid provisions, may not be accepted. 15. You're going to expand it, but what? One of the most speculative, one undefined flat-rate assessment and a sentence of your authority where you, as minister of the regulation, will prescribe something past this assembly who will be a participant of the Homeland War, and we already know that it is a fireman, civil protection, medical staff, war reporter, sailor, crew member, so who else, who else, who is Mr. Minister, give it to me publicly, and you have put St. 2nd and other person who is the basis of this command or decision by the authorities or decision of the legal authorities in the largely owned state government contributed to the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia and that you will resolve it by the rule. You won't solve it, it's one unnecessary discretionary assessment of yours where you do what, you're gonna give someone a plaque of a participant in the Homeland War. You know what? I've been in a position like many of you in the Homeland War, specifically I've been told somewhere by my commanders watch her there you enter this area, there's, there's something going on, we need to see for some people etc., okay, there were war circumstances, which were people, what and how are we not going to do in detail, but now I'm being asked a very justified question that with Veliko Jakul my dear Minister? Will he become a participant of the Homeland War by any chance? The minister or former president, Mr. Josipovic, brought him to the stage in Knin a few years ago, Minister Matic was then, he said in "Budnica" that all Serbian, his Serb armed brothers should also win the status of Croatian defender. Please, is that possible, one door, is that the door to the entry of Veljakula to gain status for the start of the Home War? We know very well what I'm talking about, and he's the first on the list to answer for serious war crimes, and we're abolizing him. Is this article also for some other abolized brushes the entrance to the small door? We'll fight it, we won't allow it, and I'd like to ask your explanation. Then, we have an art. 9, we have the Civil Victims Act that we're going to discuss later, also to everyone who is truly innocent civilians regardless of race, religion, nationality, that's what we're going to support in an argument. But we said those who raised their hands to the Republic of Croatia won't pass. Now, we will give this direction to these civilian victims of the Homeland War this, however, my dears in art. 9. we have a category of captured, imprisoned Croatian defenders. She sent us a letter, the president of the dead and imprisoned Croatian defenders. Tanja Polić Markovic where she clearly says so I cannot believe that our ministry has turned its back on these categories. She has turned our judiciary, there are several thousand of our camps of Serbian concentration camps that have no rights in relation to the compensation of the damage neither by our courts, and we see, R. Serbia will not hear of them being depriving them, and we respected Deputy Prime Ministers, also, have set off their heads, in their e-Advocacy, have not heard their proposals, have rejected it against European practice, and now in Article 9th century 2 you did not appreciate that these people, campers, prisoners of Serb concentration camps, so they did not fall there because they were bad soldiers, by their own fault, so they are trapped on the defender of the homeland or who knows what circumstances, and today when this man dies or when God does not commit suicide, nothing, as if he died I don't know who. Their family has no status, imagine, the mortally injured Croatian defender. Without further ado, if you would like to achieve it, these are court proceedings that last and continue. And in the end, I want it to remain a decree. 165, there is no reason, the ministry spends a billion and some thousand million Croatian kunas, and you want to throw out that Croatian Parliament once discusses the situation, about the report on Croatian defenders [[Intruder: Time.]] We won't let that happen, please, colleagues and colleagues, [[Intruder: Time.]] That provision must remain, Mr. Minister, inside. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39286	The next debate on behalf of the Green-left bloc MP Damir Bakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39287	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Minister. This law is harmful. This law is harmful and bad. It is harmful because it introduces in several ways some new additional, and does not necessarily need the benefits of material and immaterial, benefits for defenders and their families, thus further moving them away from all other citizens, from society and from real life. It is as if we are creating a new caste for which special rules apply, which has special rights, which in various ways is placed above or outside the law and whose problems and affairs and woes, ultimately, and disease, here, now will no longer be solved by the institutions but by the special commissions. Art. 23, according to Art. 23 It is now possible for families of the dead Croatian defenders who have already been taken care of by 2010, so those who are already residently taken care of, that now every member of that family from the same succession order, each individual member of the family is taken care of for themselves. The same article now allows, as soon as possible, to provide housing for the children of the deadly defenders, even if they own houses or apartments. It remains unclear what makes up the housing of a person who already owns a house or an apartment. Art. 39 Removes so far reasonable obstacles to the right to one-time cash aid. The obstacle now will no longer be to own a registered company or crafts or receive any other current fee. Art. 30, it further extends the circle of persons who, as defenders or members of the rope and extended families of the dead defenders or dead defenders, have the right to take advantage of employment, and this instrument, the advantage of employment, is harmful anyway. He perverted to this extent that, for example, Under the Law on Education and Education, 127 century 10 defenders and members of the family of deceased defenders have the advantage even in choosing the principal of primary and secondary schools. So, not in employment, but in the selection of directors. According to Art. 41 and 53 on some of the activities and aspects of the Ministry's activities, the Ministry of Defence, will no longer be subject to the Law on civil servants. For some activities and visions of the activities of the Ministry of Defence, an exemption shall be made. 62 C.E. The Law on civil servants and the expenditure on individual services, foreign services of the Ministry, will no longer be subject to any limit. According to Art. 51 The Ministry of Defence will no longer be obliged to submit an annual report to HS on the implementation of this law, so the current Article is repealed. 165, and I'd like to know, actually, I haven't been able to find out the last time that report to HS was filed? As far as I know, it was submitted for 2018 and withdrawn from the procedure. According to Art. The 47th Defence Social Labour Association can now be founded by the children of volunteers of the Homeland War. Defence social working cooperatives are established otherwise to achieve psychosocial empowerment, for health rehabilitation, for social reintegration of defenders. As such, cooperatives are indeed a valuable instrument and are worth the project and are rightly given no small assistance and support and support from the ministry. Art. In 47, then, the right to set up these cooperatives, with that purpose, also gives children volunteers. And finally. 57th, it substantially changes the mechanism and procedure of determining the degree of physical impairment or disability or disability. This will no longer be done as before, as for the other citizens of the Institute of Arts, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, this will now be done by special committees appointed by the minister under this bill. We heard the minister say, and so it says in the opening part of the law, that it is because the procedure is long and inefficient so it needs to be speeded up and the institutions are slow. The proposals of this law to speed up this process and make it more efficient, but not by improving institutions, but by bypassing institutions. At the same time, as if we weren't the same government, as if we weren't the same Parliament and as if we weren't the same state because we're not concerned that these same institutions are slow, and this same procedure is long and ineffective for all other citizens with physical disabilities or reduced working capacity. And right there is a fundamental problem because it is perfectly clear to all that there are many those in the defence population who need help, even greater than so far whose psychophysical or socioeconomic condition or both of these conditions are difficult and they and their families need help and our solidarity as well as our assistance and our solidarity need all others, hundreds and thousands of other citizens with similar needs. And in that sense, it is our duty to create measures that are suitable for everyone, available to everyone and applicable to everyone. Laws like this do not help, on the contrary, by ensuring in reality not necessarily necessary benefits, by not helping those who really need help, and by harming everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39288	The next debate is on behalf of National Minority Representatives Club and Honorable Representative Veljko Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39289	Dear vice president of HS, the respected government with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. As we see this bill of law before us, it is clear that it will cause a long debate throughout the day. As I speak on behalf of the National Minorities Club, I will take this opportunity to talk about a subject rarely mentioned in public debates, which is about the role of national minorities in the Homeland War. But first, I would like to say one thing about changes in the law, which I think is very positive. It is that the definition of the Homeland War participant has been extended to include provisions that have contributed to the defence of sovereignty in the exercise of military or other duties under the orders of the national authorities of the Republic of Croatia or of legal persons owned by the Republic of Croatia. When I look from the perspective of the Roma community, one of the national minorities I represent is particularly important because there are still many Roma who participated in the defence of Croatia and have never reached the status of defenders. I would go back a little to what I was talking about at the beginning, which is the fact that the defence of the Republic of Croatia against forced war aggression was not... or an exclusive Croatian undertaking and was involved in the Croatian citizens of different nationalities. Although there is no official review of Homeland War participants by nationality, historians who deal with the topic have given their assessment. According to them, about 10% of the half a million Croatian citizens are available, so about 50,000 of them who have acquired the status of defenders are members of minorities. It is a significant number to be respected and to be repeated. About 14500 dead and killed Croatian soldiers, police officers and civilians, even 14% were Bosniaks. A total of 25,000 Bosniaks, 10,000 Serbs, 3,000 Czechs, 2,500 Albanians, were fought and killed in the Croatian military and police forces, including the Slovaks, Hungarians, Italians and others. So the figures confirm what I said, which is that the national minorities were not only the parallel participants of the Homeland War and made up a large part of the people in Croatian troops. It is further evidence that most of the members of the national minorities in Croatia have seen Croatia as their country since the beginning and defended it as such. I point out this because, often in public discourse, even here from some currents in the assembly and through discussions that highlight national exclusion, it speaks of war events without taking into account, Croatia is not only a country of Croats but all its citizens, Roma, Serbs, Bosniaks, Italians and all other national minorities. Many of the Roma who participated in the war had initially had great mistrust since others besides their Roma nationality were suspicious and Orthodox religion that part of the Roma community had in the ranks of the Croatian Army. I was myself among those who looked untrustworthy, for almost two decades I was without permanent employment and I know very well what discrimination means. I therefore believe that these changes and additions will help to correct both Roma and all others, and not because they would receive something special by their status, but for the state to give away that minimum of recognition, which is to recognise the role they played in the war itself. As archival documents, they have not yet been arranged and available, it is only through oral testimony that it is possible to determine how the majority of people on the battlefield against minority members, and so the monograph of the true Roma film in the Homeland War was created on my initiative and which are talking about this particular topic and are the first of those species to handle this particular topic. Among all the associations that originated in the Homeland War, there is not a single strong national association that would bring together a significant number of Roma defenders. This must have been one of the main reasons why we faced a lack of recorded information about the Roma in the Homeland War, which opened up space for various untruths. It is the Roma community that carries a heavy burden of historical injustice as a group that is almost in all forms of historical writings, comes down to a display that supported exclusive and harmful attitudes about the Roma community. The lack of written clues about the Roma community has contributed to the objectification of the Roma community and to further spreading disinformation about the Roma. This has proved particularly dangerous in war conflicts for which Roma were never responsible. In addition to the fact that Roma and other citizens have suffered in wartime, for such a period, it is also typical of strengthening stereotypes and the planned spread of rumors and misinformation. For the duration of the conflict, and after them, there is more intense shagging, disenfranchisement and discrimination against Roma, and such situations have affected Roma in the Balkans. The example is therefore mostly in Kosovo where the Roma came between two fires in the late 1990s... one of the conflicted sides. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, by ending the conflict in Kosovo, the Roma community has not stopped being the target of attack and further discrimination although official policy rejects such information. A series of deliberate misinformation about the role of Roma in the war in Kosovo has created a negative public opinion whose consequences Roma still feel today. I must say that in general I do not think that the involvement of national minorities in the Homeland War is appreciated enough, national minorities have equally defended their country of Croatia as well as the majority people, so all publications and other works concerning individual national minorities and their participation in the Homeland War are extremely valuable. It is therefore important to continue with scientific historical research because it is certain that it contributes to the lighting of facts and that it could also contribute to the calming of passion or to the spread of intolerance and calling that we can often hear from this pay phone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39290	Next debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, distinguished representative Martina Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39291	Thank you, Your Honor. The Honorable Minister with an associate. After 3 years of application of the Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, we have before us a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements. For the reasons of these changes, the organisational problems affecting the duration of the procedure are listed far beyond the legal deadlines in the procedures for achieving the status of Croatian wartime wartime invalid from the Homeland War where proceedings last until 2 years. We do not feel that it is necessary for a professional assessment to be taken out of the proceedings, nor do we feel that it is an obstacle to the length of the proceedings, rather than to the length of the duration of the proceedings, rather than to the length of the duration of the proceedings, to the skills at the Institute of Arts and Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, where the skill really takes up to a year and a half and longer. In practice, it has been shown that in a professional assessment of 90% of the cases, doctors believe that there is a link between the current health status of the defender to the one from the death of the war, while in the work of the Institute of Arts there is a conflicting attitude in the art of art, and in the absence of a number of cases, and we believe that there is the biggest problem for the minister. These changes and the complementarity of ZOSI's skills will be transferred to the full authority of the Croatian Defence Ministry. It certainly would contribute to faster treatment of the rights of Croatian wartime wartime disabled people, but rather with other resorts that the Institute of Arts has. In order to establish the psychophysical status of the child in the exercise of the right in the system of education, the Institute of Arts and Arts shall act in accordance with the Regulation on the methodology of skills in social care, pension insurance, professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities, rights based on maternity and parental support, protection of war and civilian victims of war, and for the purpose of establishing the psychophysical state of the child. My question to you respected ministers and as vice-president of the government, in the welfare system, also procedures for the recognition of rights continue for up to 2 years. It is a matter of personal disability and extras for people with disabilities, children with disabilities, recognition of parental status and the status of carers, and also of cases for the person to die, never to exercise the right, and which financial assistance would be very welcome to them for their health. The Institute of Arts has been performing skills for all persons with disabilities since 2015 and we believe that it would be more right and fairer for all to strengthen the ZOSI area services by staff, specialists from the field of expertise, in order to make it more accessible to all users and to continue their work without the special detachment of defenders. Such an organisation is in line with the recommendation of the UN Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities to equal rights based on disability for all persons with disabilities. We agree that the work of the institute should be improved because there is a problem where people are not paid travel expenses to which they are entitled. The Institute should have better cooperation with the restoring ministries that carry out the tasks and respect the specificities of the group for which the witches are involved. In the case of the defenders as you stated, and I don't think it would be a problem because as you say, in 10% of the total cases are actually worked in, which are processed by the ZOSI. The same diagnosis in different individuals may mean different functions as a person is dealing with it, but it certainly damages everyone’s health and that assistance for people should be more just and equally available. Long-term skills is not a novelty as well as certain irregularities in work. It's something that's been going on for five years. For example, a person is an expert without calling a party, based solely on medical documentation. A number of appeal procedures in pension insurance and social care portfolios are an indication that despite the five-year practice, the Institute needs to improve and strengthen its professional staff, the practice should not immediately be abolished if we already have it, but rather improve it for the benefit of all citizens, because if we set up a committee for defenders with great justification for the other group, they can also expect the establishment of commissions with other ministries. You have allowed the third year in a row to make decisions on the recognition of the status of defenders of the People's Protection Party, and if they have made pension under previous regulations, they do not have the right to recalculate and renew procedures according to the Croatian Defence Act of the Homeland War and members of their families. Despite the numerous judgments of the Administrative Court in Osijek and the High Administrative Court in Zagreb in which solutions are repealed in the first and second stages of the HZMO and further pension system universally in all the district services, solutions are made where requests for a recalculation of the pension are rejected, and thus, in fact, the execution of the case-law is omitted. These changes are now correcting these injustices but these injustices have been caused by you by your failure to coordinate all these years. And the question remains how did you allow the judiciary system to be so burdened and that the defence budgets are so burdened to file all these lawsuits that they're getting in their favor, and they're still rejected at HZMO. Legal gaps or insufficiently clear provisions that could be addressed by good co-ordination at government level, cooperation and agreement by the Resoring Ministry of Pensions and by the Minister responsible for Defence, my question is why you have not done so before. You allowed legal uncertainty and non-implementation of judgments and contributed to a negative impression of the rule of law which is bad anyway. How clogged the system of administrative courts is now saying that the courts have begun to bring judgments without debate on the basis of the case-law of the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia. The rights are further extended, and our question is how long will such practice be implemented that after a quarter of a century, the round of defenders is expanded and the status remains with the Croatian Military Disabilities. In order to satisfy individual interests, you introduce additional rights to and members of their families, and the existing law is not enforceable anyway. You have listed the devastating data that 500 defenders have passed over the past three years who have not even achieved their status, and I would add here that it is devastating that a large number of defenders have passed away, and the housing issue has not resolved for 25 years. After the war they spent their lives waiting for better living conditions living in inadequate tenancy apartments or slightly better decorated garages. They gave their youth, their future, and their lives to defend their country, and in return they got a great inequality for some to have everything and others to live on the edges of society. As regards the extension of the rights of war veterans so far and their family members, we believe that further enlargements are not necessary, that defenders within the frameworks of the state budget are sufficiently taken care of, and especially if other social groups such as civilian people with disabilities, pensioners, socially endangered, unemployed and young people are taken into account. Respecting the great sacrifice of our war veterans, the interest of the Croatian Defence Ministry is now considered to be the circumstances that require economic assistance, the preservation of jobs due to the pandemic of the coronaryvirus and the help of earthquakes affected areas, and that is what the country needs at this point. Finally, we believe that the law is inconclusive and depending on the acceptance of our proposals, so will be the position of the club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39292	The next debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSS and HSS, the distinguished representative of Silvano Hrelja, and before that we have one violation of the Rules of Procedure. Dear Representative Željko... Here you go. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39293	Dear Chairman, here I am reporting you for a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Art. 238 because by your behavior, you deviate from the general rules of conduct in the Assembly. You haven't declared an anti-coron break, and it's been over two hours. Please, don't break, declare a break, don't violate the Presidency's decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39294	Here, professional services say that at 10 and 50 it was the last break. ... Here you go, Mr. Hrelja's representative. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[You asked for a break. You asked for a break. There was a break, what are you talking about?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39295	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. To be clear, I don't mind our Croatian defenders being first-class citizens in this country, respected and respected, but I have very much against the pensioners in this beautiful country being second-class citizens. And now in order for the pensioners to become citizens of the front row, I suggest that with these amendments and additions to the Law on Croatian defenders at the same time, we also change the Pension Insurance Act so that, for example, for the calculation of pension levels, we take back 10 of the most favourable consecutive years, that we unjustly and from the eye, we increase the current current value of the pension in 1999 by at least 20%, to abolish the permanent reduction of early retirement pensions, to give widows the right to a family supplement and allow them to work with the use of pensions, as well as all other pensioners, that the maternal supplement is worth all mothers, that the users of the lowest pensions still use the lowest pension, to increase the rates for supplementary health insurance and to reduce the RTS subscription. What do you think the government's response to these proposals is? He can't. Yes, you laugh at those who have the ruling majority, you're exaggerating, there's nothing anyone can do about it. Well, while you're laughing, I feel like crying. But not because our working, crafts and agricultural pensions are small, because pensioners have their dignity and as much as you try to take it away from us, but because in this country we have citizens first and second-class citizens. Citizens who can get anything and citizens who can't get anything. And that is why ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, because in this joint Croatia we have "a beautiful one" and "a beautiful one". That bothers me. And that's not good for this Croatia. Someone once said politics is the art of looking for a problem, finding that problem, setting the wrong diagnosis and using the wrong drug. That one must have come and come to Croatia. So here is the problem of too slow to exercise some rights. Instead of looking at how to speed up the process, an expert assessment is being moved. Independent, objective professional assessment. You know, other groups of citizens have problems with the Croatian tromical bureaucracy. Can we remove some paper for the entrepreneurs? What parafiscal ink? What seal? Can we do anything to speed up the exercise of their rights? Next, slow hanging. Take out the profession, ignore objectivity, the minister will already do it. The defender didn't solve the housing issue until 2021? No problem, here, the minister will find that empty in local self-government units, no longer have to ask the government. You can do anything whenever you want. How can you do that? By breaking all the obstacles that exist in the applicable law, to recognize your rights and to give benefits to those whom you will, whom you promised, to whom you will give your voice, to whom you will hold power. How much does that cost? Make it cost as much as it costs. The price of government isn't on the market, it's always given as much as it takes, even though you don't give yours, but ours, what you've taken through everything you've imposed on this patient people. Why did this happen? Because so far, the law has not allowed privileges and rights that are inappropriate to this society, which are on everyone's nerves because they insult common sense, insult the defenders themselves. I, personally, want to keep in front of you the memory of true defenders, for whom we have all suffered daily listening to daily reports from the battlefield, gathering for them food and clothing and shoes lived for them and experiencing all that they have also experienced. So I ask you all here with full responsibility, why are we talking about this 25 years after the war? Who is responsible for all those defenders who committed suicide because of insufficient psychosocial assistance? Whether or not I ask you whether the price of the government is being reset here, because as they say in Istria, the cups are being spent and we have those we don't have, it's an intolerable ease of sharing other people's money. I say to the finale, to anyone who has written that the law so far is not good, I can say openly that it advocates lawlessness, that it devalues the values of the law in an orderly society and that it laughs in the face of all citizens. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the applicable law is good, and what is now proposed is in the box with him. This should have been said before me by the Government of the Republic of Croatia's Legislative Office and the HS Legislative Committee if they cared about the work they do and the honorable duties they conduct. Gentlemen of the ruling coalition, you will press this proposal in the first reading before the election, but know that every vote you get from this laziness of the law lose 500 votes of honest citizens because what's too much is too much. Therefore, the HSS and HSU Club will not raise hands for this bill because defenders and Croatians are honorable and honest citizens worth respecting all citizens and all generations without special privileges and benefits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39296	The next debate is on behalf of the Association of Representatives of the Homeland Movement, the distinguished representative of Stipo Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39297	Thank you very much, Vice President. The Honorable Ministers of the Bear. First, on behalf of the Homeland Movement, I would like to apologize to the mothers, fathers, brothers and sisters of our missing comrades for bringing here a set of good wishes and good intentions to improve the status of HRVI, but unfortunately not a thousand of our comrades we were with in '91. We still have somewhere in the country and we don't know where they are. Their families, when they listen to this where we're talking about rights, about student homes, you can think about how they feel and how bitter it is in them that we haven't taken it, in fact you haven't taken it to find these people and at least to bury them with dignity. Now I want to look back on this Homeland War Act and the members of their families. First, I would like to point out the fact that the public consultation took only 14 days, and I believe that we Croatian defenders deserve a longer period of 30 days, as usual, as for the Civil Victims Act. We are entering the third year of implementation of this law in which the legislator has understood what we know from the beginning of the application, which is that deadlines and procedures for the exercise of certain rights exceed the deadlines laid down in the law. 500 of them will never exercise their rights because, unfortunately, after this long process was launched, they died. But before I start my presentation, I want the established practice of voting before the elections, so be they as now and local, stop and set new standards so that no laws are passed before the elections affecting the larger social categories or the electoral body. Namely, manipulation and misuse of certain intentions are always possible, and you are here with HDZ and SDSS Maheri. According to the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers from the Homeland War and the new Bill on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers from the Homeland War, the key document of the war was thrown out as the basis of the recognition of the status of Croatian defenders and the status of HRVI from the Homeland War. I believe that the war route is a fundamental document for the exercise of status, so I am glad that you gave up this provision because the documentation on Croatian defenders owned by the Croatian Defence Ministry is not relevant for the full insight into the course of the activities and tasks that the Croatian defender has handled in the fields and actions in which he participated. In this way, the possible manipulation of applicants is avoided because it is visible from the war route whether at the time of the disease or at the time of the death, it was in the war-related area, participated in combat activities or was in an office where there was no war-related activity. As regards the appointment of a medical committee, as referred to in Article 1(1), 57, which applies to art. In 181, I believe it is not good for the minister to appoint the entire medical committee, but only the chairman of the commission, and the others must go to the public tender. By empowering the Minister that I appoint the entire commission, the possibility of manipulation and bargaining is given. We do not see significant savings if the work of a specialist doctor is not subject to the Treaty on the part of the restriction of expenditure on the provider of professional services as set out in Article. 58th, which refers to Art. 58th. 182 of this law. Are we going to create new caste untouchable? If there was an honest intensity of reducing the time limit for achieving HRVI status in this case due to the disease, it would have reduced by 3.g. prescribed for the possibility of achieving permanent HRVI status. The fact is, gentlemen, you're late, you're very late because 500 of them, as I said, will never exercise their rights, and the question is how long their families will succeed. I would like to point out events which, unfortunately, are more and more common, which refer to the late Croatian defenders. We witness daily the mortality of those who are often sent to the last rest in a way not worthy enough for the person who participated in the creation of the state, often without the honor that belongs to it by law. That's why I'd like to present to you the proposal of Mirko Horvatin, retired wartime special police commander. In the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers, in an obligation to the employees of the Office of the State Administration at the level of the County and the municipalities should be obliged to make contact with the family of the deceased or deadly injured defender, and that the same family should be instructed in the rights which may be exercised according to the above and assist them in organising the last dispatch. So far, these rights have been participated only if one of the families asks, and a certain number of families have not achieved them or achieved them afterwards, a material part, and an honorary dispatch and does not exist. All employees of the state administration's office are able to make contact with the deceased's or deadly injured defender's family because they also own official phones, official vehicles, while some members of the deceased's family cannot, for various reasons, come to them and apply for the last dispatch to be organised in a decent manner. I believe that it could be arranged that the only person who can determine the fact of death is the district coroner, under official duty, to notify through the competent state departmental staff of the State Administration's office who, knowingly, would be obliged to make contact with the family of the defendants if there is also assistance in the organisation of the last dispatch, and if there is no family to make sure that the deceased defender is personally sent to the local authorities' unit. And finally something related to the article. 101, which falls into the water in an attempt to implement because the real advantage in employment is achieved by members of national minorities by virtue of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and by simple invitation to the Article. 22nd to a candidate with the same conditions. Since the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families is not a constitutional category, it happened that the child of the late Croatian defender did not get the job but was given by an abolised Chetnik. Until the Defence Act becomes a constitutional category, all the provisions on the advantage of employment and others have no meaning, as well as the provision by which a legal or natural person who has failed to comply with this law is punished. Furthermore, it is embarrassing how the regulation is regulated. 103rd duty of persons applying for a public tender. This is not only a disgrace but also discrimination against members of national minorities for whom it is enough to call on an article. 22. Constitutional law on the rights of national minorities. That's why I insist on getting out of the article. In 103, they shall exclude the embarrassing provisions, and that the invitation to tender is sufficient to refer to the Article. 101st of this law. I also ask the question, why did it give up the declaration of this law by constitutionality when we see from the practice that national minorities, and sometimes these members are also persons who participated in the aggression against Croatia have greater rights than Croatian defenders. It is already too late for many, but more of us are alive, and we are still roasted by the injustice of this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39298	Next debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, distinguished representative Marijana Balic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39299	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President HS, the Honored Deputy Prime Minister and Croatian Defence Minister with an associate, co-worker and fellow MPs. Today, therefore, we have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. It should be recalled at the outset that this high home of the Law on Croatian defenders of the Homeland War and members of their families voted on 30 November 2017, and it entered into force on 14 December 2017. with one goal, and it is the most responsible for defending the homeland to provide comprehensive care tailored to their needs. This led to a significant step in the regulation of the most important law, mainly in the area of opening the deadline for recognition of the status of Croatian defender from the Homeland War and the status of HRVI from the Homeland War on the basis of disease. Then compensation for unemployed Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families was introduced, the age limit for retirement has been reduced, systematic checks have been organised, pension insurance rights adjusted, and, among other things, residential care has been intensified in co-operation with the body of the state administration that manages apartments and houses owned by the Republic of Croatia. From the inaugural presentation of the motionor, we heard what it was like after the 3rd year. The application of the law has been established that certain measures provided for in the law are necessary to correct or further adapt in order to fully result in the planned effect. a comprehensive solution to all issues or problems of the defence victims' population and members of their families. What should be pointed out is that today's bill is also based on an analysis of the previous law and the activities of the Croatian Ministry of Defence in direct contact and working with the defence population and associations that gather exactly the group that is covered by them, Croatian defenders and members of their families. In particular, there is the possibility of direct insight into the further need for changes to be made in order to create an extremely fair evaluation system as regards the issue of the merits of the rights and its exceptional focus on ensuring an adequate response to all the difficulties that have a negative impact on the quality of life of the defence victims population. However, by adopting a harmonised and standardised procedure set up by the Croatian Defence Ministry in its term of office, in order to be proactive, sustainable, effective, coordinated and focused on the key needs of the entire defence population, there are still certain challenges and risks of behaviour that are often very complex and interrelated. In view of their action, there is a need for continuous development and improvement of the normative framework which will be able to respond to the needs of the defence victims population, which are changing according to the weather context. Thus, the proposal for a law, with certain new technical changes to certain provisions, is set out in order to balance interpretation and clarity, to propose the following key amendments that need to be made. Acceleration of the process of achieving the status of Croatian wartime war invalids from the Homeland War. Then additional adjustment of pension insurance rights. Nextly, the acceleration of the housing process and the acceleration of the process and further adaptation of the exercise of rights to the socially vulnerable groups of users. So, what needs to be pointed out, that this is not about new rights, this is exclusively about a technical organisation with regard to the consumption of law rights that I have already mentioned, adopted in 2017. When we talk about the process of achieving the Croatian wartime wartime invalids from the Homeland War, it does not necessarily speed it up. In fact, there are normative and organisational problems affecting the duration of the procedure that is far beyond the legal framework. And it concerns most of the professional evaluations in health institutions and skills at the Institute of Arts, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. According to the results of systematic monitoring of the state of resolution of requests for recognition of the status of Croatian military disabled persons, the procedure takes an average of one and a half years, which is unacceptable from a moral and legal point of view and, above all, bearing in mind data on the mortality of Croatian defenders. A significant proportion of Croatian defenders who have applied for resolving the status of Croatian wartime wartime disabled have unfortunately not been welcomed, therefore, because of the length of the procedure in the law, it is proposed to abolish or abandon the previous expert assessment from the process of achieving the status of Croatian military disabled people and to introduce a new model of art. We have heard that the total cost of carrying out a professional assessment so far is almost 15 million kuna. It should also be recalled here that the Croatian Ministry of Defence from the Homeland War until 2015 had its own Council of Arts. Following this, in order to further speed up the process of artificialising Croatian defenders in the process of achieving the status that I have already said, meaning the Office of Arts, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, it is necessary to place the skills but can also be said in a certain way to return them to the full competence of the Ministry of the Croatian Defence, i.e. to establish special committees in which the skills will be carried out by the witches, here I particularly point out that they are independent medical professionals, specialists in their fields that will be called to the public and who will be trained in accordance with the methodology that will be prescribed by the Croatian Defence Ministry. Furthermore, the proposed bill proposes to speed up the housing of defenders and victims. It is possible to do so through the purchase of apartments in certain locations where it is not cost-effective to conduct an organised housing process. It is also necessary to simplify the transfer procedure for the housing of Croatian defenders between the authorities of the state administration. It should be pointed out that the analysis of law enforcement over the past 3 years has provided 2 066 members of the family with fatalities of Croatian defenders, Croatian wartime wartime invalids and volunteers from the Homeland War. 329 apartments were awarded, 944 housing loans were paid, 740 financial support totalling nearly 194 million kuna. If we add this figure to the number of the Central State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Care, which it has provided through the rental and donation models of apartments and houses, as well as the donation of building materials to rebuild or build a house of 2250 families of defenders, we come up with a total of 4324 residential defence families in the term of office of this Government through the Ministry of Croatian Defence and hence the Central State Office for Reconstruction and Residential Care. It is also necessary to enable all pension insurance rights for Croatian defenders who have gained status after the entry into force of the Law or the reopening of the deadline for obtaining the status of Croatian defenders. When we talk about the exercise of rights aimed at socially endangered user groups such as compensation for unemployed Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and one-time monetary assistance, it should be stressed that these rights will be further tailored to the needs of users and will also be accelerated and the process of exercise of rights simplified. It should be pointed out here that the obstacle to the right to compensation for the unemployed under this law will no longer constitute the fact that the user has a registered company or crafts. We also heard from the opening presentation that it is necessary to ensure that this law is implemented in the division of the Ministry of Labour, the pension system, family and social policy through 3.g. about 45 million, and in the division of the Ministry of Croatian Defence 8.4 million kuna in 3.g. It will depend on the timing of the adoption of the law for the first year and 2021 respectively. In line with the importance of the defence victims' population for the Republic of Croatia and the need to ensure quality and lasting care that they deserve, or to ensure their legal certainty with it, is in line with this current draft law, which will, following all of the above mentioned HDZ Representatives' Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39300	The next debate is on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39301	The respected, proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Defence solve precisely the problems of the defence population pointed to by former occupier Lora Vidovic in her 2019 report, one of several reports which the ruling did not have the courage and honesty to discuss in HS in time. This is a concrete example that shows that Lora Vidovic defended and represented the rights, freedoms and interests of all citizens and all parts of the population, and I am saying this for all those MPs who recently criticised the work and falsely told the truth about her mandate during the debate. Therefore, complaints from the Homeland War defenders concerned the non-recognition of the status of Croatian defenders, the non-recognition of the status of Croatian wartime invalid from the Homeland War, the problems of housing, the length of the procedure for the determination of material and other rights, the inability to exercise the right of advantage in employment and the difficult social situation. Independently, the defence population also points out that the entire society should pay more attention to protecting the values of the Homeland War and the dignity of its participants. I can agree with that request. At the same time, however, the other side of the medals should be admitted. The fact is that there is also a certain number of defenders who have not at all or have not properly resolved their status and rights. However, the fact is that certain, certain rights based on the defensive status and participation in the Homeland War are achieved by a large number of people disproportionately greater than our combat force at the time of the war. That's why the general public has the impression that so-called. The defence registry is actually a list of those that the HDZ government has primarily taken care of in this way, bought their peace and affection, and I dare say a vote. In the eyes of those who do not participate in the ongoing growth of the number of persons included in the Defence Registry, it was confirmed that the allocations of that status and the associated rights created a new inequality and social injustice. It was this situation that created a negative attitude and attitude toward the defence population, which was further encouraged by their influence on political developments through tents and gas bottles. Therefore, it should be no wonder that the number of 5,700 requests for the status of Croatian defenders submitted to the MRLs and 2019, and 1,300 requests submitted to the MUP, as well as 14,000 further requests for recognition of the status of Croatian military invalid who had been submitted to the offices of the state administration in the counties and the City of Zagreb in 2019. He's looking with a skeptic, so whether it's justifiable or not. It is the duty of all of us to provide the defenders with all the rights and dignity they have lastingly. But it is our duty to protect both the dignity and the dignity of each of them in particular by thinking about those who are no longer present, and they are precisely the elevator of the Homeland War and the appreciation of the defenders at risk of doubting that there are too many those who do not belong there. For generations to come, defenders must not remain in memory as mercenaries, mostly because of those who have never been on the front. Previous requests to carry out the review of the defence status have not reached their goal. For a time, the registry was public, but it was abolished during previous changes to the law implemented by this authority, and very unusually, given that from all sides of the HDZ and its coalition partners are heard, calls and curses are heard in transparency. It is humiliating for all Croatian defenders, according to real Croatian defenders, and it is humiliating for Croatia's future and it is very bad that these new amendments to the law bring this transparency down further and new doubts arise. Namely, from the Defence Register, which is no longer publicly available, or from the National War Registration, as the full legal name is being deleted and the entire categories of data are disappearing, and we must strongly oppose it. If such a bill passes, the Registrar of Defense will be further deposed to non-use. On the contrary, we propose that in order to protect the dignity of the Homeland War as well as to protect respect and gratitude for the defenders finally be audited by the register itself, but this time in the way that it really should have been implemented so that the generations that are coming would not be ashamed, so this revision should be carried out effectively and decisively before it is too late. And we suggest that this review be carried out the following way. First of all, we propose not only to keep the scope of data in the Defence Register in the existing range but we further propose that some new categories be introduced because we must have one unique and credible database. The state must have systematic and transparent data on all members of the family of the dead defenders who exercise rights under this law on family members of the missing Croatian defender, on children of the Croatian wartime wartime invalid, on children of volunteers, so for those who exercise some rights under this law, there must be a single system database that can be reviewed independently of what is no longer public. So, we propose that, within 6 months of the entry into force of the law, the Ministry of Defence undertakes to carry out a comprehensive verification of the basis for obtaining the status of defenders and volunteers from the Homeland War, given that it already has data and documentation from the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defence, and, if necessary, may request additional information. Instead of relying on the application by the Ministry of Defence should only be obliged to carry out a verification of the organisational structure of defenders and volunteers from the Homeland War in such a way as to request from the living commanders of the troops and directly superiors a written confirmation of the accuracy of the data of the persons involved in the unit, in order to identify their identity with the data included in the records of Croatian defenders. We also propose that the Ministry of Defence undertake to report to the Croatian Parliament, at the end of that 6-month period, on whether checks have been carried out and what results have been carried out. And in case it is not completed within that time limit, the ministry would be obliged to report to the Croatian Parliament on the reasons for the problems and, after every three months, to report again on what has been resolved and what has not. On the basis of the data obtained, the ministry would be obliged to carry out all necessary actions and procedures to delete those who did not have a place there and also to initiate procedures for the return of acquisitions obtained without a basis to the state budget. The second thing we want to point out is the fact that a large number of people who have acquired the status of defenders acquired that status on some basis that does not apply to the fighting part, and the extent of those who have recognised the status of defenders as a non-combating sector is widespread with every new amendment to the law. And from there, actually, the genealogy of the constant growth of the number of defenders. Although we are no longer able to penetrate acquired rights, we assume that the whole system is not entirely fair and the fact is that many defenders who really participated in this combat sector have not resolved their status rights to this day. Although, as I have already said at the outset, the amendment solution to the very problems identified by the Ombudsman himself is a controversial way of dealing with these problems. In order to speed up the process, it is proposed to abolish the previous expert assessment in disease-based status procedures, and the skills carried out so far by the Institute of Arts and Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities has been given into the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Defence in such a way that it is the minister who will establish a special three-member commission in which the witches will work on the basis of an act contract and on the basis of the rules that the Minister himself will bring. A second-degree panel of 5 witches was also formed in a way that named him by his decision, the minister himself. Such changes give the minister great power over which there is virtually no control, and transparency has been completely abolished. In itself, this will include further doubts that in this way there will be numerous situations where a legitimate goal will be accelerated and the status of those defenders who have not so far been overshadowed by a few non-creative and unfounded rights. And instead of that closed system in which all instance of decision-making gardening around the minister we suggest keeping the art inside [[Intruder: Time.]] the institution with clear deadlines. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39302	Next is an individual debate by distinguished representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39303	Ministers of Croatian Defence, respected Croatian defenders who follow this, colleagues and colleagues, as I said on behalf of the Croatian Defence Club, that for the fifth time since the beginning of the Homeland War or 25 years. The 6th year since the Storm of Liberation Operation and the great role of Croatian forces in the liberation of the Republic of Croatia not only in the territory of Croatia from a large-serb aggressor above all, we must say that it is a very sensitive law. And when something changes five times, and it's 30 years since the Homeland War, there's a question of who's responsible for changing the law five times. I can believe that there must be some changes, but I can't believe when I remember that I was in the Croatian Parliament giving amendments on the inability to implement this law and when our amendments, the minister partially accepted them at the time. I hope that in the second reading this law will finally find some kind of calm and that mainly Croatian defenders who have been forgotten, I can tell you that the Croatian Ministry of Defence should be decentralised, not centralised because in rural areas there are people who are Croatian defenders who can mention the background, my Dalmatian Zagora, many other parts where Croatian defenders do not have the same opportunity at all to access certain information, rights as they can in the larger environments, and especially where it is centralized, in Zagreb. I would once again say that today when we pass, when we discuss this law in 3 years, it has died on the ground, when this law means it has entered into force. Two years after his entry into force and a few months after the information I received from the board of State Secretarys, 500 defenders died asking to exercise their right. So we three years ago, the same government is the same minister with good will to solve the problem essentially passed a law that was inconclusive. I don't know how much money was spent on art, on all these processes, and what's going on, we're changing the law after three years when we saw it was inconclusive. And indeed this law must not be a law at a time of pre-election, this must not be the law of the minister you are the minister of all Croatian defenders and my minister and minister of SDP defenders of members and non-partisan and these laws are terribly sensitive and I have warned once again and I will mention what is the most important, health care for Croatian defenders who have been given in law as something of the most significant is that Croatian defenders enter the most deadly group with the lowest age of dying. Once again mentioned, Ministers we have the Croatian Pride Veteran Hospital in Knin which is forgotten by the founders of the county that are the cancer of the Croatian society, and the counties are pests, which harm and see the Veteran Hospital in Knin and not exactly, these hospitals, here I will tell you in that hospital medical staff travelling from Sinj, Split 200, 300 km a day in one direction and another do not receive months of travel expenses. We have a swimming pool but it's not, I've been giving the amendment, it's not allowed to do it, it's for the physical therapy pool to finish many other things and other laws and other ministries are essentially not being handled by Croatian defenders. This law must not be passed in pre-election time, it must not. Now someone's going to say every time it's in pre-election because what happened, we've got five amendments to the law, we've changed the laws, we're changing them as which minister we're changing them. A colleague Djakic will explain it better, this one now, but the law is on Croatian defenders. So we have so many problems that it's amazing, that after 30 years and three years of the minister, I've supported this law. but along with the amendments, and you didn't accept them all, if you'd accepted them today, we'd have a solution. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39304	Replica Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39305	Dear Representative Bulj. It has been 30 years since, let's say, 25 since the status of Croatian defenders who, if they had been properly arranged, would not have led to today's fact that unfortunately we have to literally count the dead. When we do these laws that regulate the fundamental rights of Croatian defenders 30 years after the war started, the question is whether this law really serves to regulate someone's rights or its purpose is actually different, to be one of them pre-election, whether a political pamphlet that will wave is actually trying to show some kind of concern for the defenders or to buy their votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39306	I would be the happiest if the law were to be made unique what was said when this law was passed, the single law, meaning the unique law that he was enforceable, I would have been the happiest, if the amendments we'd given had been followed. I have to admit once again that the minister then accepted certain amendments, but not all, and it is unfortunate that the result, so we are talking about the result of this impertinent law of 500 Croatian defenders who have let them resolve their status did not experience to get rid of it. And we've been waiting for three years to change that law, three years. And not only that, colleagues, it's even worse, the worse thing behind this law is that we're passing the Civil Victims Act that should have been passed long ago, but the fact is that that's where those who've been shelling and creating victims are the Serbs who don't have lists of those people who can get very easy to get through to get that right.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39307	The next replica, distinguished representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39308	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Bulj would have to tell the truth that five legislative proposals provided the needs of Croatian defenders, only some of them really respected while others devastated them, dissuaded them, and placed them in the social category. So from the Ministry of Defence when the care of Croatian defenders was in it, I guess you remember, from the first Minister of Njavra who passed the first law, and then by devasting Pancicev's law, so Maticev, etc., we were fixing in the race that we could fix, there were terrible escapades, thousands and thousands were decomposed after Pancic, that should be pointed out and said. Today's comprehensive law I'm sure is the best measure, these technical things that are missing in it let's fix them so that the satisfaction towards Croatian defenders is complete, and everything else is really within the framework of the laws that apply and apply.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39309	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39310	A colleague, Djakic, I would just say for a little while here, so 70 points is changing this law, 70, this is almost the second law. I would have been happiest, I repeat once again, I supported this law was, this valid, supported, I was making amendments, proposals, but it was invaluable. That part you didn't accept, means to me that he would accept a certain law he must be enforceable. She was Jadranka Kosor Minister, you then boasted that she would solve all the problems, in fact she had blocked certain things, you well know you were with her. So if we mention Pancic, let's mention Jadranka Kosor. So we're arguing here like here's the Croatian defenders who's more who's less. The unique law for Croatian defenders must be enforceable, meaning enforceable, and not inconclusive, is it then pre-election pamphlet if it is inconclusive.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39311	Now we're gonna take a break for 10 minutes, move on to 13.50. [[It's a meeting at 13:40 p.m.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 13.50 HOURS]] Here we go, the next individual debate is Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39313	My colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives, in principle we can say that there are two approaches to this law and to the problems of Croatian defenders in political dialogue. They both kind of miss the point and intrumentize the defenders. Some buy their votes, others buy their critics' votes. Some promise unsustainable rights, and others when they talk about defenders speak primarily through language of convenience and through caste. Personally, I don't think the defenders are a self-disciplined individual whose love needs to be bought. They first proved themselves selfless and selfless, risking their lives for their country. In return, they were forgotten by the institutions, otherwise their rights would not be regulated now for 30 years. After the war started. The first question that arises when we are talking about this law is who this law is going to help now, what are the chances that someone will really edit their status now. Why am I asking that question? Because the impression is that it's for defenders, and if it really was for them, so Banovina wouldn't look what it looks like now, the question of the missing and all the other issues that are directly or indirectly related to the defenders would have been solved long ago, as well as the issue of the documents of the Vukovar hospital and summed up, it wouldn't have been the same authority that caused them the current problems, pretending to offer a solution. The basic problem of the current law is that it gives too much power to the ministry. The defenders need to be protected by the law, not by politics, because when some authority comes that is not so prone to defenders, when comes the authority that thinks their rights are too large, or that this problem is a long-ending story? Will such authority, then, in view of all the powers vested in the current policy, disband the medical committees in the hands of the ministry, streamline the medical commissions, or make it difficult for defenders to reach their status? That's why it's important that the waist decides, not the like. We need to repair existing institutions if they are effective or shut them down. Of course, it is primarily necessary to speed up the process, it should have been recognised before through existing institutions and because these existing institutions were there. An open question arises as to the responsibility of the ministry and the political authorities for the fate of those defenders who did not welcome a solution to their status because if they had not been in the process and had not been the institutions whose head this authority was then it would not be anyone's responsibility, but in a situation in which institutions existed, but in too long they held certain cases there is a political responsibility for those same institutions to resolve the status of those defenders whose rights are now nominally pre-election kuna. The funds for housing by buying apartments on the market are planned at sources 43 and 71, and will be spent in accordance with the available incomes and offers of residential facilities on the market. That's not clear enough. Does that mean only nominally that the defenders will get something, while in practice we can find out we don't have any money? Art. 3rd, Art. Article 7 57th, all of them say that the provisions of this article will be broken down by a rule adopted by the Croatian Defence Minister. It means that there are key issues of debate in this law of farce, and the ministry will be given the power of attorney. This same ministry or the same government that allowed the items that remained in the drawers to be resolved and whose solution was not welcomed by the defenders who passed away. I am also standing by health workers and health workers who are demanding to regulate their status within this law, who participated in war events. With what Vesna Bosanac is talking about, I will remind you that just now the Vukovar hospital has suffered one of the most severe victims during this war, and this government has not yet bothered to return her documentation which should have been her primary task if she really cares about the rights of the defender.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39314	We've got a few replicas, the first distinguished representative of Ante Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39315	Your Honorary Vice President, I believe all your nobles are honest with the Homeland War and the Croatian defenders, I am convinced of that, and you have said one key word, some other power comes. That is why, because of this sentence that you yourself brought out by Minister Medved, during all this time the suffering of Croatian defenders from Minister Pancic, that I am not talking about Miranda Mrsic, Fred Matic, made it into a single law, a law where Croatian defenders and members of their families will indeed try to make one of the most qualitative laws there is. And another thing I would ask.../incomprehensible/... or you to really go to the Ministry of Croatian Defence to be a little deeper, more honest, more complete, and also to the association of missing Croatian defenders, Mrs. Alvir, to really get a personal impression except for the political one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39316	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39317	I thank you for your comment, I must warn that, in principle, if we really care about the rights of the defender, then we must be careful that these rights are properly resolved through the law and that whoever is at the head of the ministry is removed from the hands of the current policy. We can now hypothetically have the best minister in the world, but within 4 years, someone else can come in who will not be in the interest of the same rights, who may be disbanding these medical committees, who may be tightening the criteria, who will develop some other regulations, who will not address the Croatian Assembly with a report on the results of his work. And then who will be able to fight for the rights of those same defenders? That is why it is important, and this is also the purpose of Croatian defenders, so they gave their lives for this country, that this country has its own institutions, that these institutions be strengthened and independent of politics and that they exercise their right to work, institutions, not politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39318	Next replica, Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39319	Dear MPs, our job as a legislator carries great responsibility at least to those who are aware of it. First of all, this applies to the congregation’s majority who can always pass the law they want. This responsibility is great because the laws we adopt, if they are bad and if they are insufficient, cause great damage in practice. The fact that we are discussing this law today is also the fact that three or four years ago, this same ruling majority did not pass a good law, because what has been important in the last three years in reality is now changing 50 or 70 articles of the law that was passed only three years ago. I notice a lack and political and professional responsibility to say sorry, we did not see reality well, we did not see the needs of Croatian defenders and the problems they have in practice three years ago, and now we need to change that law after only 3 years. That's what I'd like to hear. I'm sorry, we didn't do a good job a few years ago, but here's what we're trying to do now. fix it. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39320	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39321	I agree with you, Col. Rasudiæ, otherwise it turns out that the defenders are really being treated as sub-disciplined selfish individuals who can only be obtained by some argument on the grounds that, we are working on your rights, we will give you more rights, no matter what happened over the past 30 years in practice, no matter what rights they did not live through, which some have not even experienced the exercise of their rights, which we did not in due time repair the institutions that did not quickly exercise your rights in action. This is all irrelevant, we will do another law again, we will drill again on the chest with the rights of Croatian defenders and that will be enough for Croatian defenders. The sacrifice for the homeland is sacred and no one can use it to profit politically. And we really need to be honest and watch what happened in practice and create a legal framework that will strengthen institutions and move away from the power of the politics of Croatian defenders' rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39322	Next replica, distinguished representative Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39323	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleague, it was an interesting observation, you had a few of them, about documents from the werewolf hospital. One of the things that should be said there wasn't actually one of those constructive and joint engagements of the Ministry of Defence, I don't mean now, but generally with the Foreign Ministry. There have been some discussions in the past with the Serbian side about the return of these documents, however somehow it has not, it never happened. Boris Tadic thought he brought them in, so it turned out he didn't, and then when he visited Aleksandar Vukic, the relatively recent president, it wasn't the same in the end. So, do you have any possible here for the minister a constructive proposal on how this could be better done because it is definitely one of the important issues and for Croatia in general the whole of Croatia not only for defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39324	Yes, I will agree with you the documentation of a Vukovar hospital which is extremely important and which is very detailedly managed despite the difficult conditions still not available because the members of the JNA took it away and did not return it. I'll remind you that the werewolf hospital was open to everyone, even the enemy soldiers, and she's had a lot of attacks. One of them was dropped 2 atomic bombs weighing 250 kg, so on. Feeders, Serbian media have been talking about a two-year supply of artillery going to the Vukovar hospital and sending reports to the European Commission, we still haven't received documents from the Vukovar hospital. To know what happened to the fate of those who were at the time in Vukovar, what about the fate of the missing and all the others. All of this will really help us if the minister does something clearer and not only declaratively at the request that the documentation of the Vukovar hospital be returned because it is not spoken of at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39325	The next replica, distinguished representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39326	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues Rasudiæ, you were talking about how Croatian defenders and victims of the Homeland War are sacred in the Republic of Croatia and I would just point out that these amendments and additions only want to improve their status and the enforceability of the law is more accessible. But I will tell you that the political options as they changed sensitivity or not sensitivity, reluctance, or hatred for defenders were clearly visible. So from one political option, one minister speaks of his predecessor, so Matic talks about Pancic, Pancic was excited, made a lot of mistakes, eventually did nothing, he had good intentions, but he didn't work well, Matic said. And we could say for each other that they did nothing but cause the biggest protest in Croatia's history.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39327	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39328	People often don't understand how much it's a victim to be a Croatian defender, and I don't think I'm even here to be the person who has the right to doctor or talk about it. But I am afraid that much in Croatian society about the rights of Croatian defenders is really out of misunderstanding, let's say when it comes to the benefits of Croatian defenders or the caste that is further created and the benefits that their children have. A Croatian defender's child carried out this attack, which was later called a terrorist act. I know Croatian defenders who unfortunately killed themselves, so the consequences of the war are not only direct but indirect and at a much wider level. But in order for this problem to be resolved and for society to develop sensitivity towards Croatian defenders who I think really belong to them, then they cannot be exploited for political purposes but rather work on rights rather than political points.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39329	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Damir Bakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39330	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Minister. I'd like to mention at first two things that I've already had a chance to say about today. First, something about the resources needed for, to implement this law. It is mentioned, therefore, that the funds reserved in the division of the Croatian Defence Ministry about the activities of A558041 Conta 3237, then the activities of A753008 Conto 3721 and A522027 Conto 3721 mentions the intended costs, mentions the money reserved on these three continents and for this 2021. and for 2022 and for 2023. The problem, however, is that actually projections for '22. and '23. for these conts, in fact not only for them, but for all the positions within which these conts exist, projections do not exist. So there are no projections in the specific part of the budget, there are no documents, no budget documents that we adopted here for 2021. In this respect, the funds for the implementation of this law are not, in a formal manner, secured in the state budget. I'd like to go back one more time. The 23rd one I've already had a chance to talk about. I would like to remind you, this article implies that families of the dead Croatian defenders who were taken care of before 2010, so at a time when family members were not supposed to reach a previous mutual agreement in housing, the law now provides that for these families each family member in the same succession can, each one of them has the right to be taken care of individually. This actually opens the Pandora's box, and if we pass a law with such a provision, I think it's only a matter of days when the possibility of literally every family of the deadly Croatian defenders being taken care of by a few of the apartments will be opened. That's why I think this provision is very harmful. And now here's two or three more remarks. For starters, I'd like to mention an article. 7. Introducing a new set in a separate newly introduced item, a new set is being introduced for now undefined health rights. What kind of rights will be in addition to all those that the law so far and rightly foresees, so what kind of rights will that be in this bill do not say? We don't know. But the right to those rights will again be granted to committees appointed by the minister. I certainly don't think that's a good way to go, on which such and similar laws should be written. Then another remark that may not be too important, but it's indicative. Art. 44. mentions members of the Croatian Republic's HVO who receive from the Republic of Croatia a disability pension, in fact as a difference in the disability pension they would receive as citizens of the Republic of Croatia according to our rules and disability benefits in BiH, now art. In 44th, he said, if it is established by law in BiH that there was a reduction in the percentage of physical damage then, unlike the provisions of the current law, it will not be re-edited in the Republic of Croatia, but the disability will remain the same. It's absolutely mysterious why it should stand in the law. And finally, and that's already mentioned today, and I'm going to say that, too, in art. 46th is significantly more inaccurate and deficient to define the data contained in the records of Croatian defenders of the Homeland War and we also believe that this is not a good way to go. That's where I'd stop for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39331	Time. We have several replicas, the first distinguished representative of Željko Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39332	Dear Kolega Bakic, it is truly incomprehensible for me that the Croatian Defence Ministry, the promoter, has decided to abolish the existing article. 165th and that, once a year here in the assembly, all aspects of rights, obligations and achievements are discussed in fact by our intensities, the availability of our money to Croatian taxpayers who are in the ministry over a billion kunas, but the ministry and HZMO are even more. So how do you experience it? Is that what it is to you, what it is to you? What's that, where's it going, why is that?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39333	Thank you very much, fellow Sacic for this question. So, yes, I have already mentioned in the presentation and in the name of the club that we are opposed to this article. 51st, which is therefore doddicated by Art. 51st. 165, which docks the ministry's obligation to submit a report to the Croatian Assembly once a year on the execution of the Law on Croatian Defence. It's a more strange team, it's a more strange team in light of the intensity that this law was written by, it's a much weirder team in light of what counterpart Rasudic was saying, the growing powers of the ministry and the minister himself, it's a team that's weirder and in light of the provisions that, for example. They say that certain activities of the ministry will no longer be subject to the Law on Civil Servants, so even more so, they have more reasons and more grounds for the ministry and minister to actually submit a report on the work of the ministry to this Parliament. Amazingly, however, this new law suggests that such a provision should be made.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39334	Next replica, Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39335	An esteemed colleague, one question is what is the responsibility of the government so far for the fact that the Institute of Arts did not work well on resolving the status of defenders because if it was indeed the case, then there was a great argument that it was going directly towards the Government and towards the Institute to speed up the process and work of the institute to make better quality of the defenses and, consequently, everyone else. But I still think about some other things and the intensity of this law, that you have the right to and use it, are not two identical things. That this right creates in some way and an incentive framework for defenders by respecting their sacrifice and that the fact that you're talking about, what you're calling Pandora's box, that I don't know, that children will now all be taken care of or something like that, I think the situation on the ground is different and the problem is vice versa, that there is insufficient respect for the family trauma caused by the war and that there is no such privilege that any law can give for it to be annulled.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39336	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39337	Thank you very much. So it seems to me that our opinions on this are quite congruent, I'm actually on display on behalf of the club, so I made it very clear that we are perfectly aware of the needs and duties of society as a whole to help many defenders and their families, on the one hand. On the other hand, just what you're saying and what you're quoting is an article. 23. So it offers some new benefits that are not actually going that way, which do not help where they need to help. It is absolutely absurd for a family, that a family of deadly injured defenders be cared for or cared for by obtaining N apartments while on the other hand some other defenders do not actually have the elemental psychosocial or medical assistance. In that sense, this law doesn't really hit where it's supposed to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39338	Next replica, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39339	Dear colleague, it seems to me that according to the Administrative Procedure Act, it is not acceptable for the Ministry to negotiate transactions under the contract on the work on the assessment of someone's health skills, first... the authority, then having on the one hand, has a contract with the executioner and then, in the second degree, that ministry assesses that solution as correct or incorrect. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think it's a violation of the Administrative Procedure Act, but that's exactly what's proposed in this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39340	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39341	Yes, thank you for this intervention, I believe it is, but I really wouldn't be able to decidate that to confirm what you're lying about, I really can't say that, to have the exact same data. I think you're right, but I can't say any more.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39342	Next replica, the esteemed representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39343	Thank you. Dear fellow, we have heard these other replicas, many of them going in the direction that there is criticism of the fact that in fact a large number of rights will now be decided directly by the minister, let's be realistic because he is the one who sets up the commission and that it certainly opens up the story and increases the actual corrupt risks and we are all aware and we cannot first close our eyes that corruption in the procedures of determining example and disability, now we are not only talking about defenders but also, in the process of gaining certain status and rights, there was no corruption. This is what we're actually opening the way for more. I'm curious about what your suggestions would be and what we need to build into this law as security fuses to reduce these corrupt risks that we're actually talking about here?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39344	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39345	Thank you. So I just think that the direction this law was going, the direction that it was going, that he was going to solve defence problems in a way that instead of the institutions being improved, that they were going around, that this direction was actually difficult to fix. And he carries in himself another danger that a few colleagues in their presentations have pointed out, it's not just about corrupt risks, it's about something that's implicit, the implications I won't actually say encourages, but it allows for further division in society and further antagonision for which there's no need and, in fact, we often do this by looking at the defence population as a whole, and by thinking about those who have their privileges, undeserved privileges or who don't deserve any privileges at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39346	Next replica, Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39347	Dear colleague. I'd just like to supplement a little with the context of this fact where you pointed out the surprise of why if the disabled persons in BiH are reduced to members of the HVO in Croatia will not be reduced. Your position is perfectly understandable if we assume that in BiH we have a fair commission and a normal context. Unfortunately, however, there are no laws of mathematics in the same way for everyone. You will remember the example of a few years ago when Valentin Inzko annulled the Central Election Commission's decision that five is not a third of the 17 and said in BiH five-thirds of the 17 when it was necessary to choose power without the legitimate representatives of the Croats because they failed despite changes in the laws that cut it to a third of the necessary votes from the House of Peoples and despite the fact that six were elected from the Bosniak counties, but Elvira Abidć Hrvatica refused to vote for it, so there was one missing. So where I can change the laws of mathematics we can assume and the legislator obviously took that into account, here is to defend them a little bit, that the Commissions from institutions without legitimate representatives of Croats can thus live on members of the HVO. So I understand your surprise when you saw it. but it should be taken into account the context, unfortunately, which is in BiH. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39348	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39349	Yes, thank you. Of course, I am perfectly aware that such things are possible, but simply when the law is read the existing text and when this proposed amendment is read, it does not seem logical. Because, in fact, the law currently in force, does not automatically imply the adoption of such a new assessment by the BiH authorities, the existing law actually implies simply a peaceful, objective re-intelligence here in the Republic of Croatia. There's no reason if there's an external incentive for this re-intelligence here and not to be carried out. So I don't question either credibility, nor the credibility of the BiH authorities, but I simply don't understand why in a situation where an external incentive exists we're giving up something that's simply a logical and reasonable step of administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39350	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Zeljko Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39351	My colleagues and colleagues. Today we have heard very much about the different aspects of this important law, and as far as I have seen we have all praised what we have all seen and encouraged to go to protect the rights of the greatest victims and the most responsible for the freedom of the Croatian homeland, but we have also shown ruthlessly everything that is not good in our opinion, which leads to a single gap with the Croatian public, with the Croatian people, in what we Croatian defenders of truth who are out of different motives, first of all out of patriotism were willing to sacrifice our own health and life that today someone is nagging us, not because of money. No, we don't want that. We want it to be just, to be so in all other countries of the world that have similar problems, a similar population, and ultimately we deserve it, and so we go our way to give everything we need to correct the injustice that has accumulated in the past, but not to go beyond certain rights, certain opportunities that confront us with the Croatian people. That's not what we want. We do not want to be contrary to the Croatian people because we wanted to die in solidarity for him, and now we do not need someone to confront us for any narrow party, political and any reason, but you are now honored caste, and these others will serve, paying to let you fly peacefully, we do not want to. The following remains an amazing fact means it is not just bread, it is not just life about what we will drink and it is, we Croatian defenders are eager for justice. Mr. Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, as the minister we supported, who you are our representative personally I fought very well that you were fine with the ministry six months ago, here's a witness here. They wanted the Ministry to drown you, imagine. That's what we stopped from thank God. And now what do we expect from you? So we expect you not only to give us 50 kunas on pension but that you solve key things for Croatian defenders, which is, and unfortunately not, you did nothing to achieve justice, that they, which is your duty also, that those who committed crimes, evil at the harm of Croatian defenders, Croatian victims to be prosecuted. Unfortunately, since the upheaval of all these times, we have witnessed, although even the mayor of Penava in Vukovar has organized a grand gathering, and you are who Pontius Pilate would not be able to interfere. Well, that's where the first speaker was supposed to be. It also means what it says not only bread and water but moral satisfaction, justice we are thirsty, Mr. Minister, you must give it to us. Now, this year you've been in the government, what you've done with the Minister of Culture, with the Prime Minister, with the institutions, so we've had to have five films for Oscar nominated, which will be nominated for Oscar, pay for it and put the sacrifice. Our dear colleague Rasudić clearly notes, Selak Rasdić that this is the victim that we have materialized through these years since the detudmanization I have spoken since 2001, from the traitor Mesic etc., etc., when they threw everything away, criminalized and put chains on what we have done to come to our Croatian children here are our heroes. This is among other things, how many medals and medals you gave, the medal for action, the key actions in history must enter, they have been neglected, we are little on the Committee on War Veterans I am quite sure that Mr. Djakić will support it, we will be having a discussion about giving these medals the key ones that talk about heroism. Well, after 900 years, freedom didn't fall from the sky and you know it. And you know it very well, but don't forget, and that's also the subject of this Law on Croatian Defence. And that's what we need to talk about. And that's what we need to pay attention to. And about Gigi Biscan who died rest his soul that's that dear hero who followed us in a wheelchair with a flag at all the protest assemblies for Gotovina, defenders, he died 18 days later, that 18 days earlier his soul was rested [[Intruder: Time.]] His family would have what, 18 days later, and they don't. [[Intruder: Time.]] That's terrible stuff.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39352	The first replica of the representative Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39353	I object to any rights given to defenders and their children being called privileges. I am fortunate to have a living father and those who do not have that happiness whose families or family died during the war certainly do not understand as the privilege of getting one, two, three, five or fifty material dwellings or goods. There is no privilege that can compensate the victim of a family member who disappeared in the war. So I think we should all be careful when we talk about not calling it privileges, we can call it right, and as such there's a weak compensation for that victim. But I will also agree with you that the basic requirement of those who, for example, have a missing member in the family is to resolve his destiny, and they are not allowed to be compensated for the material damage they face.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39354	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39355	Yes, I thank you, quite certainly, to support your position, and therefore this one should ask us our wives you know, our children, our wives owned within an hour, two, of 10 hours. They're the same victims, they're the victims of the Homeland War, no one asks for them. For those families that you say, for children who have lost their fathers, who are disabled people who watch daily, and we have to feed them, we cannot feed them materially, we have to approach them in other ways in the spiritual sphere, which is cultural identity, artistic works, all of which is possible you are smarter than me, you know what it is to do to make that child come to primary school, high school, to college to say with pride that's what my father created, that's my mother, that's my brother, and not all war criminals are criminalized, that's PTSD, that's the kind of climate we have to create. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39356	Next replica, distinguished representative of Stipo Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39357	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, since you were in the special police department, what do you say to the fact that the Krajina police were translated into the MUP in '97 and used all the rights to volunteer for the Homeland War. What do your comrades, your officers, say are in the same rank as the Chetniks they fought in Dinara, Slavonia, Dubrovnik or anywhere else? Why not make such changes to the law that such deviations that have unfortunately happened to be corrected? Why don't we go to these changes to get these people out so they can't use the rights of Croatian defenders?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39358	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39359	I absolutely support you, I understand. In 2003, when I was president of the Association of Special Police, we had honors when we talked and later on about the register of Croatian defenders, it was precisely the topic in the MUP because there are all the records of all the Martićs in the MUP because they were employed in the 1990s. '90s, 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th and 5th months until '92, until '91. By the 1st, 2nd month even some of us were in those special units of the police, thank God they didn't kill us at midnight because he was in the room with us, and in the morning with the guns he fled to the other side. So, we're in the M.O. and he was fighting his colleagues, of course, we know who he is, it's a feather move. This is what needs to be closed, not opening their doors to the Civil Victims Act of the Homeland War and Abolitions, and in the name of reconciliation, which we will forget all about in Grubori. ♪ We won't forget ♪ ♪ She can't forget ♪ which is injustice. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39360	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39361	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, I'm sure in all these years you've been part of the Homeland War, as well as part of the government that you've had the opportunity to participate in many things, and now you've brought some facts out, you're aware of the problems that Croatian defenders, members of their families, families of the missing and defenders and civilians have been through, as well as the Civil Victims Act. In our informal conversation, you yourself acknowledge both Minister Medveda and President Plenkovic how much they have done. I would like you, in the same way that you come for the pay phone, to give that recognition and as our comrade, as a friend, as well as truly what the Croatian Defence Minister has done in the unity of this law to make it better, and we are all here together to be even better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39362	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39363	Well, I have no problem in saying that in this law which Mr. This Proposer is on behalf of Mr. Medved's proposing an excellent thing, and I bow down to it, the provision that the charity of the Homeland War, or the Brigadiers, the Special Forces, everyone else, just by the fact that the Homeland War had passed because of God's will, did not get a grenade or a bullet, nor did it catch him, that alone if he had been such a powerful hero for 3 years and you know how many, that he recognized 20% when he was entitled to the apartment because so far he had no right to do so. He doesn't care about anything he's been fighting for five years bravely, you know how, a lion, but you're not disabled, you get an apartment, and, well, live who knows, the tenant. Now you've fixed it, same as the one who's been on Velebit for four years, that's great, but you're my special ops team, the backup unit, because you've spent them, you've been fiddling, you've been on Velebit for five days, and then that's not there for a month, and then you've been 10, and you can't, that's for the special police reserve, that's a special subject, and you have to because all the other backups have a set. We admit it, and we're the ones you've been pulling. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] And you know who the heroes were. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] You know what, I wish you knew.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39364	Next replica, the esteemed representative of Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39365	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Representative, here we are witnessing that contaminated space when it comes to defenders and writing, talking about the Homeland War, those who don't actually have the right to do so and we know that the war wasn't a picnic, that it was supposed to go to war, take a rifle and fight against the Chetniks and create an independent state of Croatia. My question to you, was this law of 2017 so good that it should not have been changed or commended by Minister Medveda for being bold to change those items that are not acceptable to really speed up the process of resolving the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39366	As I was saying in the introduction, this law of 2017 came into force in 2018, it was good in a work that was unitedly extended, or in a whole way, uniformly regulated the rights of Croatian defenders and there it was an excellent step towards the period before, however, there they made a half-step. Why aren't they like Mrs. Devereaux's colleague said? Vlasic Iljkić, and other colleagues, why he did not, when he saw the problem at the Institute of Arts, why he did not take certain measures to strengthen this institution in human, professional, materially, I do not know how to strengthen, that our Croatian defender has no impression or Croatian public, if you are now privileged partisans, caste, we will especially resolve you in our ministry and how I minister determine by... And the rest of you wait, you're less important. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's not supposed to work. That's what we think could have been better, needed the minister of these millions of kunas. to ensure that this office puts into full function, say, when you're asking me why. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39367	Thank you very much. We have a replica of the next respected representative of Pavliček, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39368	Dear fellow Sacic, you have said a very good sentence in your statement that you are defenders of thirsty justice. And of course you're thirsty for justice because we live in a country when you ask younger generations to name three heroes of the Homeland War, they can't count them. And let's remember all of us in that former state, we all know who Bosko Buha was, and we all know who the folk heroes were, we all know all the offensive partisans. Croatian society and Croatian power have failed, not this one but all the previous ones. We don't teach our children about our history, we're ashamed of our own history. So we have the absurdity that today in the Croatian state you have Chetnik monuments, state the ministers of a country in the EU where we have monuments for enemy soldiers. That's why it's the Croatian government, no one else. She can change laws. I can't, I'll always support what's good, but I'll also say this isn't good and what's done today and this law that's going to lead us and open Pandora's box and the next generation will suffer for it. For the coalition of you and the SDSS. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39369	Thank you very much, the answer of the esteemed representative Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39370	I agree with you absolutely, which is expected, so the society, the elite since 2001, has failed to say since the death of President Tudjman here, when the bogeyman detudmanized us, turned the wheel of history back and everything we did well and sacrificed our lives and the Croatian people realized the centuries-old aspirations were thrown into the mud, it systematically went... Not to be taught. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And today we have curriculas that teach at school, give the model to Minister Medveda, the first job for you, that civil war was waged in Croatia. So, my people, what are we talking about? So what's HTV doing, Minister Bear? It's yours, go inside, you have here at least 100,000 guards and special forces in front or behind you who'll say stop that. That's what I told you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39371	Thank you very much. We have the next replica of the respected representative Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39372	Dear counterpart Sacic, the foundations of the Croatian state are the Homeland War and these foundations are made by just the Croatian defenders. The EU we are currently in may be falling apart as the Roman Empire and the stronger our country is, the more we invest in it, the stronger the Croatian state is. You are aware of this and I believe that all Croatian defenders and Croatian patriots are aware. I'm going to ask you a specific question, it's simple. We haven't heard from him, the answer to this question has not been heard from the minister and that is, here is your comment on the fact that the minister has three times avoided the answer to the question of how many new Croatian defenders or how many Croatian defenders have obtained status under the new law? I'm interested in your position which is why the minister avoids answering this question.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39373	Dear Representative Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39374	Yeah, I'm really embarrassed too... There was no need to eskicipate Mr. Minister, you said the number of rests their souls were when you came in, 400 044, 45, and 15 000 rested their souls died, now 4030, but you could say without any problem if in the meantime you wrote down 6000 new ones in the register, you did not frame them, which would have been said by the Ministry of HV and Home Affairs, but you are the final one who, why, you should have said that you had 14,000 requests for Croatian war people, now that in 2018 they opened the door. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, it's unnecessary like this, we can then conclude that you are manipulating something, which you cannot, the Croatian public must know, must know, and we can always tell about it, President Tudjman here said that we were 327.529.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39375	Thank you, thank you very much. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39376	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representative Sacic, you are in a very emotional performance, which I fully understand, mentioning certain problems that Croatian defenders face daily. You're also promoting a culture of gratitude. I am not one of those who now need some sort of panegyric towards Croatian Defence Minister Medvedo, but you must agree that since he is the minister of Croatian defenders, Croatian defenders are easier to breathe. I would mention here the problem that you are probably facing on a daily basis, this is the notion of "social exclusion", it is about privileges, and in fact that social exclusion makes a great contribution for Croatian defenders to be a risky population not only for health problems, there are a number of Croatian defenders who have not yet solved the housing issue, who are practically homeless, here I am primarily thinking of singles and I believe that these amendments and complement the law are a step forward towards the better quality of life of that risky part.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39377	Thank you, thank you very much. Dear Representative Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39378	I absolutely support this right correction of these injustices to people who, now last Saturday, I was with them, in epidemiological measures, this with a few of them I've spoken, I want to say in one association, but respecting the epidemiological measures, where your heart stops when you hear those stories that are active and reserve employees of the special police and heroes, done in the war, it's for, not for the Oscar, but I don't know what happened here, and today he tells me after that story that I am today, what I have. It must not happen, it must not be, it must be corrected, yes, and the minister will praise for what we should praise him, but we will also criticise him justly for what we believe has gone where, where there is no interest, and we will not talk about it today, there will be opportunities.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39379	The next replica of the esteemed Uncle's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39380	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, honourable representative Sacic, the military chief of the special police department of the MUP, we are entering the 30th anniversary of the start of the Homeland War. You were born in the Varazdin area, and I believe you are familiar with the contribution of the Varazdin police officers to the defense of the homeland, 37 of whom 31 died or disappeared in Vukovar, in Vukovar itself, or in the attempt to break through. It's not until this year, it means 30. From the first victims, the Varazdin police officers will receive their monument, until this year there was no initiative. This year they will only receive the honor of their sacrifice they made at the very beginnings of the Homeland War and I believe it is a concern and respect for the defenders, especially our dead colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39381	Dear Representative Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39382	Only I can agree with you and express my deep gratitude to the local authorities and the regional local self-government and the city that they have expressed so well-deserved one and forgive the minister for who participated, that they have received due attention. This helps our children to rejoice and jump around that park "Pume" to know that there are one of the greatest heroes of the Homeland War and the "Pume" and "Rode" and the cops of the Vukovar who are a huge victim. That's what I'm talking about, but it's the first little step, we need far more, it's, I think it just seems to me that it's the 30th year, so we've come, but it's all saying that somewhere fat, in the wrong direction we've been going, can we now speed it up? We must, for our children's sake and leave Croatia as it should be, so she must live forever, not as Mr. Pupovac did 2-3 years ago. announces that it will end up as NDH. It will not end up as NDH this Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39383	Thank you very much, thank you. The next debate will be a respected representative of Vesna Nadj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39384	Dear Vice-President HS, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister with State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families is one of the constantly highlighted reasons why the tent was raised in Sava 66 and was there for 555 days. They asked Croatian defenders from the Homeland War to return to dignity. Djuro Glogoski, one of the leaders of the protests after the end of the protest, said that since we started protesting through the tent, hundreds of thousands of defenders and those who spoke to us with confidence because they lost confidence in Croatian institutions and that is why we can say that this tent has become an institution. The Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families under the bat of Đura Glogoski, which is obviously inconclusive. They praised the opening of deadlines for the recognition of HRVI status and the underlying disease, and now they admitted that they had complicated the procedure so much that only before art and professional evaluation in health institutions was almost 2.g. Because there are problems with the lack of a doctor, sending defenders to remote hospitals that are available to the people and capacity, and now they propose to throw out and professional evaluations from the recognition of HRVI status procedures. Of course, it is beyond all deadlines provided for by the General Administrative Procedure Act. The suspension of art at the Institute for Arts, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities is now also foreseen because of the length of the procedure, which was also mentioned by counterpart Vlasic-Iljkic on behalf of the SDP Club and instead of reorganising the work of the institution, is required to return the skills to the care of the Croatian Defence Ministry and the methodology to be prescribed by the defence minister. Now I ask the Deputy Prime Minister and the Prime Minister, so as Deputy Prime Minister, couldn't you come to the Prime Minister and tell him that the procedure has been going on too long, the defenders are waiting too long, so let's get rid of the reorganization of that office. Therefore, the assessment of the damage to the organism returns to the Croatian Defence Ministry. Apparently, Minister Medved is tasked with getting political points to HDZ before the local elections. I must congratulate the Minister for the timing, two months before the local elections. It no longer needs a war route as a representation of war tasks, sufficient insight into the records of Croatian defenders. So who, after 25 years of the end of the Homeland War, will determine the causal link between disease and participation in the Homeland War, which doctor will be able to do without having a war route or representation of where this defender was, where he participated, and how in the Homeland War? The more after that, after participating in a series of traumatic experiences, there may have been both loss of work and loss of family members, now there is a pandemic and earthquake and everything else. In addition, we see that the defence minister does not know or will not say how many new defenders entered the register or register. Since the register became invisible, we don't really know how many defenders there are and who are in the register. National and regional centres for psychotraumatic units and centres for psychotrauum are deleted and now external experts will evaluate or work on psychosocial assistance, and they will not be subject to those restrictions as well as to the Law of the others for civil servants. This is obviously for collecting political points before the local elections, but it's a coup on the state budget. The attack on the state budget at the time of the pandemic when we don't see the end of the pandemic, at a time when we have an obligation after the earthquake to rebuild the buildings and when the state budget was only down 8.9% last year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39385	Thank you. We have several, first of all, injuries to the Rules of Procedure, first of all to the respected representative of Deura.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39386	In 238, respected MPs, you as part of the biggest casualties of Croatian soldiers and police officers from Minister Pancic to Fred Matic, who created 100% disabled people headed by Djur Glogoski to stand before their ministry and cry and beg their state and institutions. For their country and institutions, they gave their lives, their bodies, what you didn't understand, what you put aside. The institution you led is the most frightening thing that has happened to the Croatian defender. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39387	Thank you. It wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it was a replica, so I have to give you a warning you know that yourself. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure is the respected representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39388	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The 238th article is also injured because Mrs. Nadj, colleague Nadj, is telling the truth, that you have carefully read the law and his debate in public consultation, would see that it has been accepted that the war release remains as such, as the main document. So you, as a professional who worked for so many years at the Ministry of Croatian Defence, didn't even educate yourself to see what was accepted and what wasn't accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39389	Thank you very much. Likewise, the question of truth and falsehood is not a matter of the Rules of Procedure, and then I must give you a warning because there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure whether anyone is speaking or not. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure of the same respected representative, Glavasevic. Here you go. What's he hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39390	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I'm giving up on the breach of the Rules of Procedure since you've responded extremely well, and here's thank you for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39391	I think I always react the same, but please. We have replicas now, the first respected representative of Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39392	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues. I see you still have a problem with the protest today and the tent that was in front of the D.A.'s office unfortunately, and it was because they were dissatisfied with the status that they had at the time when you were secretary of state in that ministry. At that time, a relationship with Croatian defenders, unfortunately as it should never have been, was then sent to the Croatian defender here at Mark's square, then you as officials of the ministry who were supposed to be first at the service of Croatian defenders entered the back entrance of the ministry and did not want to receive them at meetings and arrange with them how to improve the resolution of their problems. This minister and HDZ government passed a law that is enforceable, but unfortunately during the implementation period it has been established that it can be improved that the procedure can and should be accelerated and that is why these amendments are proposed. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39393	Thank you. Honorable representative Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39394	Thank you. So obviously HDZ has a privatisation of public policy towards defenders. It was not enough that the SDP government opened the Homeland War Memorial Centre Vukovar, which we started construction and almost built the House of Croatian Veterans in Lipik, which provided funds for four veteran centres, solved property-legal relations, project documentation, which we started building monuments for 402 children killed in the Homeland War, it was not worth anything that we weren't HDZs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39395	The next is the replica of the respected representative, Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39396	Here's my colleague, Nadj. I'm interested in your experience, and with the desire that all of our people in Croatia be privileged, one question. So the time spent in the Homeland War was calculated as a double-term insurance hold under certain conditions, can we also provide double-term insurance to healthcare professionals who are in respiratory centres fighting the crown, all of whom are involved against the crown? What seems to me to be a good suggestion somewhere and which we have referred to in the form of a conclusion, and unfortunately rejected by our government, establishes some sign of the equality of these times in which we are living today that are truly remarkable in relation to what happened in the war so that our people who are now on that first line of defense as they say in respiratory centres, legally equate and enable them to have that insurance internship. in double duration. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39397	Thank you. Of course we should do this as a thank-you to health care professionals for everything they've done in this pandemic Covida-19. But of course not in this law, but in a lex specialis that will regulate it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39398	The next is a replica of the respected representative Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39399	Dear MPs, here in our country where we swear on digitization, where we swear on the registers that we'll form, where we swear we'll have accurate records, we're actually going to lose records, and we don't know that, let's say, one defender has an apartment in Zagreb that he got from the state, that he's got a house in Bania that he got from the state, such records aren't being followed, such records are not being kept. At the same time, the defenders who really need them, who really need them, who need it, they don't have it. Why? Because that's what the elite got. And then there's the criticism that you didn't do something. Really guys not fair and unfair.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39400	Honorable representative Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39401	Thank you very much. Therefore, a comprehensive record or register of the rights and status of Croatian defenders and members of their families should be made publicly available in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act and the General Data Protection Regulation. There's nothing to keep secret, defense attorneys and family members, I don't think they want to be secret.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39402	The next is a replica of the respected representative Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39403	Dear colleagues, everyone who is now listening to this debate of yours is clear why the defenders were so days ahead of the ministry and stayed in the tent. You dare call a minister who corrects all your mistakes that he didn't do something, that he missed something to do and why he didn't do something. You who sat there for four years, and you could've done it, and you didn't. And now you've come here amongst us and you're talking about what this minister didn't do after everything you've messed up before. You. And we're listening to you. And yet you dare criticise the minister who works and who is supported by Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39404	Honorable representative Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39405	Thank you. If the minister had worked so well, then we wouldn't be here today to discuss it. Then the law, then the law would be enforceable, then the minister would be satisfied with the law that he passed in 2017, would not discuss it today. Today we would have 4 veteran centres open, today Croatian defenders would celebrate Minister Medveda.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39406	And the last replica of the respected representatives of the coat of arms of Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39407	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Assembly, the Honorable Minister, dear colleague, I listen to what you just said in your individual debate and I am under the impression that you were actually a state official for four years, that your personal income was provided by the state and you were there exclusively to defend the rights of Croatian defenders. So now it bothers me further what it feels like when, you yourself said 100,000 defenders and certainly a large number of defenders so many days protesting against their own ministry, and I find it even harder to imagine when Nevenka Topalovic died there. Here's what I'd love to hear your sense of what it must look like when you actually have someone who put you there, who you serve for, serve that people when they protest in front of your window. There's no one protesting in front of Secretary Bear's window.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39408	Honorable representative Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39409	I thank you for the replica. So, it wasn't pleasant, but since we knew who was behind it and why these defenders were protesting, we were still doing our job, so we implemented the laws they passed, passed the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39410	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the respected representative of Silvan Hrelje. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39411	Dear Mr. Vice President, respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, one of the best rights in the Croatian state is the right to another opinion. On this issue, on the other hand, we have different opinions and that's okay, and we should say it in the culture of dialogue, but the right gain is when we have an opinion on the structure of the defenders. You've all had the opinion of the defender's comment, or the comment of the defender of Saša Debeljak, in your e-consultation. It is different, but deserves to be read here to enter the record of the debate of the Croatian Parliament who liked it, who did not. The comment is: Please withdraw the amendment proposal, the amendment of the law from the procedure. Every time you've changed something, you've made new divisions between the defenders and the people who look at it all through the prism of the media heist that we're attending. Indeed, your intention was not to correct irregularities and injustices because you were warned of them when you passed previous amendments to the law. All you've done is equal to what we see every day in this garbage called parliamentary democracy. Some have every right, even more than that, and some will not fight for crumbs in two lifetimes. You choked on the bureaucracy and divisions of a young and quality part of society, which was ready for sacrifice and his own life, for the betterment of all, and dissuaded him with a people who today are convinced that all defenders are sitting on the back of the budget and on the bookies. You've made us so much of the defenders, that we need a law on the dignity of the Homeland War, as if they'd respect us more because the law says so. You haven't done anything fair to us, and you're doing everything with a fig in your pocket. My entire command is in disability pensions. They all hung PTSD out of fear while making lists to be sent to the guard, but they knew what was waiting for us, which is why they were commanders. Former ministers, if necessary, change solutions and percentages of disability, like me socks, and don't have to wait years for art. You're assigning temporary solutions to the HRVIs 30 years after the war. The ratios of the cause of disability are shared and sold as a pay salad. Nebuloses are invented, such as the continuity of belonging and the depravity of rights, people who missed one day between the troops, not by their own free will, but by the failures of the bureaucratic apparatus. You haven't had a single register arranged, and you haven't been able to even fairly divide the fighting sector from the non-combat sector. All known examples are that there are more days of fighting sectors than soldiers or police officers in the MUP. You've assigned us shares in the mid-1990s fighting. 8-point year. Give me one name for the man who fought at the time. Maybe Branimir Glavas, who sent recruits to JNA until March 1991, and that's why you signed up for the fighting sector and the stocks, and the specials for that pain on Velebit 1. There are hundreds of such examples and similar examples, so you can list them by tomorrow. The defenders have already learned that since the war they've had nothing but trouble. Stop messing with our wounds, stop talking about us, leave us alone already. And yes, one more thing. Have you ever had a good look at an 18-year-old kid? Do you have any idea what you've done to them by putting a gun in their hands? Yes, you do because their future has made yours possible. Don't give us anything, but for once human from the heart, thank you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39412	We have one replica, a respected representative of Pavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39413	Your Honor, this letter is not strange since Franjo Tudjman was in '96. In the year he delivered a number of 336 thousand defenders, after which, at the end of the year he delivered a number of 300,000 defenders and we knew what the criteria were for these defenders. Why they're defenders. After that, we come today, 25 years later to a figure of over 510 thousand defenders. That means that in 25 years, we've got a new 150 thousand defenders, we don't know what the criteria are, and at the same time we've lost between 400 and 600 thousand people. So how come people don't confuse you? A real defender really responds this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39414	The Honorable representative of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39415	What to say, what to say but not to know who these defenders are, and I don't know how long we're gonna have to keep new defenders, and I think we should give them, those real defenders all the best this society can give them, but definitely, definitely, and I believe that I have a lot of contemplators, that I need to clear up what grain is, and what's a weed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39416	Thank you. The next debate will be the respected representative of Stipe Mlinaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39417	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Well, first of all, I have to look back here at HDZ and the SDP taking over the defenses. From your capture of the defenders, 3500 people have made a suicide out of your adoption of defenders 1600 people have not yet found out, from your strong concern for defenders the mass of people by containers goes from defenders who do not have, who have minimum pensions of 2500 kunas, so stop worrying more about the defenders, defenders are no one's ownership of any party, nor the Homeland movement, they are people who have truly set out to create this country, they created it, but unfortunately guilty people are watering it. And since there's no coalition partner all day in the assembly because they don't care about this law, here's a little bit about them now, so they find themselves because they're also users of this law from the HRVIs. I believe there's little anyone who knows what happened on December 15th, '97. Mr. Namely, on that date, the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Croatia integrated precisely with 834 Serbs, members of the SAO militia into its composition. Why is this important? In the Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families in Art. 3 It is clearly defined who are Croatian defenders, so that status has the police. By participating in the defence of independence, territorial integrity, sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, or the time of direct threat to the sovereignty of the Republic, the armed resistance to aggression and action in direct connection with that resistance, departure to the troops, to the combat position and return and training and to prepare to go to the battlefield. In time of August 5, '90. until 30 June '96. Mr. Why does this matter? The government and the minister have broken apart from believing that rebel Serbs and aggressors cannot participate in the rights of Croatian defenders. Here, I will now publicly deny them and with a very simple story that most of those who know about them want to forget. Therefore, the status of a volunteer of the Homeland War regulates art. 5th in which he stands, a volunteer from the Homeland War is a Croatian defender from the Homeland War who participated in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia as a member of the fighting sector for at least 100 days in the period from 5 August 1990. until January 15, '92. '90s and '91s. After the first free elections in the Republic of Croatia, police members signed a declaration of loyalty to the Ministry of Interior and Croatia. But at the end of the summer and early autumn of '91. A number of Serbs leave the MUP-RH system in SAO Krajina where they participated in aggression and crimes against the Croatian people, and so we come to the date I mentioned at the beginning when the SAO Krajina militias became police officers within the MUP of the Republic of Croatia. Why does this matter? Well, because these transformers enjoy rights that not only belong to them but must be banned. I'm not talking about possible events, I'm talking about what's going on neatly in this case with the SAO Krajina militia, which due to the failure and legal indetermination, realizes the status of nothing more than a volunteer of the Homeland War. Could it be more generous? Can we, the coalition partner of Plenkovic's government and party founded by a convicted war criminal, be mocked more? Correct the wrongs, my lord. Do you know who you've most damaged by this law, and you haven't tabled any changes that stop their discrimination? HVO members. They are the most underrated and most discriminated against group that has given so much for Croatia and so little from Croatia. And these changes that are listed in the amendments and additions are welcome, but they are insufficient. I'm sorry this government didn't find enough hearing and compassion for our brothers and sisters members of the HVO, and they could and had to. This remains just to wait for some new changes and additions, and hopefully new elections to end the shameful discrimination of members of the HVO. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39418	Thank you, and we also have a report on your presentation of the replica, the first of which is the respected representative of Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39419	Dear fellow and war hero Mr. Mlinarić, unfortunately you have met us, you have put a mirror in front of us all and the fact that we have these SAO landscapes that we celebrate today as volunteers, unfortunately this is true and what is the worst about it was Jakula in "Budnica" the other night saying that he wants to, and I guess that's the step, that Croatian defenders also become enemies of Croatia. Now, I'd like your opinion on what this item represents to you, the participant of the Homeland War, and in that discretionary right of our minister, when it's already listed first, it's listed as a fireman, civil protection, war... Now, who do you think the participant is? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39420	The answer of the esteemed...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39421	Thank you very much for asking Mr. Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39422	Can I give you my word or is it irrelevant that I sit here? Here's your colleague, Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39423	Okay. Thank you, thank you, Mr. Chairman, I didn't know it meant that much to you, but good for this one. Mr. Sacic, you're right, unfortunately under that participant of the Homeland War, everyone is going through it, and I'm afraid that the real and honest defenders who unfortunately die every day, you see, the newspaper that you open as much as has an obituary with Croatian defenders, I'm afraid that through these laws some people who haven't earned and weren't participants of the Homeland War and never took a rifle in their hands, never saw the Chetniks, not even on TV, but they're actually not on TV, because Croatian television doesn't film them Chetniks, so I'm afraid that there will be the same manipulation, that there will be actually buying votes before the elections with people who have nothing to do with the war at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39424	Dear Representative Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39425	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. MP, I noticed in the proposal of this law that the presupposed or already defined budgets are almost doubled for the next 2023. Since it is absolutely certain that the growth of pensions will not be accompanied by such an intense growth in money or quantity, it is obvious that there is an increase in the number of users. What do you think these users might be working on here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39426	Dear Representative Mlinaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39427	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for asking Mr. Dretar. Yes, I noticed that these items are being raised, pensions are not paid from the Ministry of Defence but from the pension fund. And I'm very interested in what people will be in a year, in two days, which are new people, and I agree with the minister that there was injustice, and I support the minister in things that work well, and who wants good for the defenders, I'll never be against good proposals, but I'm afraid that the increase will end if there aren't so many people who, the right people who fought until '91, who aren't in 2021. I'm afraid there will be another manipulation that there will be printing of new ones, so in fact your voting machinery would be complemented unfortunately by people who are dying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39428	Thank you. The next debate will be the respected representative of Hrvoj Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39429	Dear Vice President HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. We're talking about the Croatian Defence Act. In the '90s, somehow from today's perspective, the memories faded, about the '90s are becoming less and less talkative, even in the Croatian media in the public space, and unprepared about these '90s, and even started in today's time, in recent times one ratification of all the events that were important for the creation of the Croatian state, and the Croatian state for those who do not know was created by the Homeland War and that there was no Homeland War and that there were no these Croatian defenders that we are discussing today would be no Croatian state. Therefore, the foundations of the Croatian state, Croatian statehood rest in the Homeland War, and these foundations were made by Croatian defenders. And that's what just doesn't kind of stand out in the media, kids don't learn it at school. Today on television, on Croatian television, HRT we have more news from the region, specifically from Serbia than we have, for example. Some news or memories of this glorious time. From time to time, an event like this occurs. Our hero, Free Prajka, who finds us a little bit. And now this Free Praljak hero, he's texting us from a remote Hague and he says I can go free in a year, but no, I want to send you a message as important as what I am and what my fellow defenders did in the Homeland War. However, when we talk about this Free Praljak, perhaps this speech, not perhaps but certainly, and this speech will not be published anywhere because Free Praljak must not be mentioned in Croatian media, the truth about his act must not be pointed out. And then today we are discussing the Croatian defenders and the minister here has adopted a bill, he has defended it, but he has not answered all the questions, to one key question, but he simply did not want to answer the question, although his colleague Pavliček, colleague Milanovic and I have asked him the same question, how many new Croatian defenders have there been in this period since you were Minister? Later, my colleague Sacic asked that question, but you still haven't taken the opportunity you have and come here and say so. Now I wonder if the problem is to say that we have a thousand, two, three, five or six thousand Croatian defenders who have achieved that status in the past period, is that a problem? Did these people get their status under the law? Are you afraid of the title on the Index hr. 6,000 new Croatian defenders in the past? If these people have achieved their status under the law and because they were Croatian defenders, what is the problem? Why don't you say that number? I don't see that problem. Since you don't say that number, you're avoiding the answer, I'm afraid you're hiding something, something's wrong. So this will now be the fifth time during this debate that MPs invite you to answer a question that is simple, if you're not sure take the phone, call the defence minister he knows so let him say the exact number. Croatian public must know because these people who have achieved their status are Croatian heroes, are you embarrassing them, is that some problem, why don't you say it or something wrong with the law? Let's make a deal. Why hide the number of new Croatian defenders if everything's okay? But I'd still end up in that tone the way I started. The Croatian state was built on the solid foundations of the Homeland War, and these solid foundations were made by Croatian defenders and if there were no Croatian defenders, there would be no Croatian state. Unlike all European, new European countries that have come into existence, they have left themselves alone and have collapsed socialism and communism, only Croatia has created on solid foundations and never forget that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39430	We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, the Honorable Representative Deur. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in? Stay a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39431	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor. You certainly come from the Sibenik-Knin County which was extremely wary, first you did not stick to topic 238, and I believe that you could give much more pain to the Homeland War and be part of that part. Today, you're becoming a Pope greater than the Pope, the HDZ has introduced you to be a sovereign and start thinking like a true patriot of the Homeland War. Be at least a little more realistic and really what the Ministry of Croatian Defence And this government is working. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39432	Thank you very much. You know that it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I'm gonna have to give you a warrant. 240.st.1. give a warning. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure is the respected representative Djakic. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39433	He's been injured, Vice President. In 238, a representative shall not speak about a subject which is not subject to this debate during the hearing. You should have interrupted him, warned him and given him a warning. He was talking about something that wasn't the subject of this law, and he used it all the time to harass a minister who wasn't responsible for issuing certificates about new defenders, but it was the defence minister and the interior minister, and he should know that Sacic, who probably knows about his secretaries that he put in the register.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39434	Thank you very much. It is true that a colleague came out of the picture, but if I were to warn everyone because he came out of the topic, I'm afraid we'd end this debate very quickly. My colleague Zekanovic, you have an injury.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39435	So, the Honorable Vice President of HS. Of course, in 238, my colleague Djakic was the first time I spoke on my cell phone the whole time, you didn't warn him, he didn't care what anyone said, but he had to give some replica to his mentor, Andrej Plenkovic. Comrade Deur, I was a senior in 1992. And as 50,000 students of my generation, I went to '93. to study, I did, and I wasn't in the Homeland War. Is that your problem? Is that your problem? Do you call all the students... why they didn't fight? Are you calling? [[Invader Reiner: Your first time is up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39436	Don't yell. Your time is up, you're getting a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39437	You're dragging in to Andrej Plenkovic in some other way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39438	Based on Article 241 I give you a reminder by taking away the words of my colleague Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39439	You're dragging in to Andrej Plenkovic in some other way. My father created this party, not Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39440	On the basis of Article 240(2), I give you a reminder by taking away the word until the end of the debate on this topic by my colleague Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39441	Okay, now what?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39442	Go ahead, get out of here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39443	And how am I going to respond to the replicas?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39444	He won't answer, please leave.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39445	Yeah, I won't answer, but there are procedures one, two, three, one, three.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39446	You've got nothing but yelling all the time, not listening to what I'm saying to you at all. The next debate will be respected representatives of Katarina Peovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39447	Very.../incomprehensible/... Mr. Vice President, you will surely like it because fellow parliamentary representative Mr. Djakic has violated all possible provisions and the spirit of the Rules of Procedure mentioning me in an unrelated context that I do not know how to create the status of defender, and I know that the Minister of the Medes of the MUP and the MORH are pouring all the data into him and he knows only. Mr. Djakic, I've never given that one, only in the fighting sector, unlike you and your fellow accordionists and others, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39448	Okay, thank you very much, this one of course wasn't the same injury to the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning. We have a replica of the respected representative Oreskovic, but Zekanovic, unfortunately, will not be able to answer you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39449	Thank you, Chairman. I'm going to spell the line so it doesn't even have to be answered. You started with one thesis to talk less about the '90s, so I'll try to explain why. And because in time, the corrupt intentions and the corrupt actions of HDZ authorities forced real and honest defenders to withdraw more and more. Because of what was happening, because of the defenders some of them are here now, and the first associations that appear to each of our citizens with their name all the corruption affairs, all the crime, all the favors and privileges have turned these people into everything that an honest defender has never been or should have been. The defenders retreated to themselves because they were ashamed of the state, the injustice and the corruption that the HDZ government had turned into, and none of us were ashamed of the defender or ever wanted to take away from them. or reduce their rights. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39450	Thank you very much. We have a proposal for a break, the esteemed representative Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39451	The motion for a break was not respected by the chairman, I just wanted to ask, on the basis of, did you give your colleague Zekanovic a note based on an article in the Rules of Procedure, so you took away his word, why can't he answer the line?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39452	Because I took his word from him until the end of the debate on this subject. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39453	And okay, I missed that part, so I apologize, so I just wanted to hear this one again that my colleagues took the word, that's all, that's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39454	And whoever hears, listens, does not listen, and speaks his own story anyway, is he? The next debate is the respected MP Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39455	And the break man asked for, what?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39456	No, no, obviously not.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39457	And he didn't ask for a break? What's the problem? They're smoking in the back, smoking, smoking.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39458	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39459	In a tone of what has already been said before, but with some additional emphasis, I would say that these amendments and additions to the Law on Croatian defenders should not be discriminated against even though many today believe that the veteran population is disproportionately privileged and that it places others in a subordinate position in Croatia. And many who themselves belong to the veteran population believe that this population does not tolerate a proportional part of the burden borne by workers and workers on the first line of defence against the crown, as well as workers who have lost their jobs, do not receive salaries or have their income reduced. In the time you come, the differences will be increasingly pronounced, and thus the animosity towards the privileged will certainly increase. If we're talking about discrimination, I'm going to tell you one more thing that I've already said today. So, the workers gathered in the defense headquarters of the Oilics and Workers gathered in the defense headquarters of Brodotrogir, many of them were defenders and today say that what is extremely bothering them and what offends them when Danko Končar tycoon in the newspaper gives them a statement that they themselves are guilty of destroying Brodotrogir, not he who has received all the privileges and destroyed Brodotrogir for his own benefit.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39460	Dear MPs, I ask you to stick to the subject. Neither Oily theme nor tycoons are the subject. The topic is to amend and supplement the Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, please stick to the topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39461	It wasn't a depression, so what we're talking about here is a privilege. So I'll tell you some more information that bothers people who talk about privileges. So the average pension in the Republic of Croatia is about 2,500 kuna, and the defence pension is about 6,000 kuna. There are only 3,600 pensioners amongst the 1,1 million ordinary pensioners, and among the 70,000 defenders there are over 11,000. Now, to implement these amendments to the law, it will take time for the crown of the crisis when demand for savings to provide more than 50 million kuna in 3 years. So they're not as privileged as the defense attorneys that they've been disproved to say so. I asked the Minister about the most problematic part of these amendments to the law, the part under which the status of the Croatian Military Disabilities Arts, which has been conducted by the Institute of Arts and Professional Rehabilitation, will be transferred to the full jurisdiction of the Ministry of Croatian Defence or a special commission will be established in which the skills will be performed by experts who will be personally and possibly, and that is what many here have stressed, very intransparently appointed by the Minister himself. Whether someone's health has been disrupted as a result of a war that ended 25 years ago, it will be decided only by a commission appointed by the defence minister. Many express doubts, and there I agree with the fact that this can be more transparent there, that there may be a procedure that is more convincing. The minister replied not to start the commission, but to the council. So much for this and the seriousness of this objection that we all repeat here, it doesn't matter if it's the Council or if it's the committees, but it's not about the transparent procedure, it's not about the procedure that MPs and MPs agree with here. There is therefore serious discrimination that has been undermining the trust of the defenders themselves in a fair procedure for many years. If the Institute of Arts and Professional Rehabilitation is not effective, if the institutions are slow, should this be resolved by bypassing these institutions or improving these institutions? If these institutions are ineffective for other people with physical disabilities or reduced working capacity, should they not be reformed to be effective and not to single out one population as privileged from the work of these inefficient institutions? Also, while it is perfectly acceptable and desirable to give some rights to war veterans who allow for their easier inclusion in society and work, psychosocial and economic assistance, it is unclear why such privileges would have both children and members of the veteran family. This relates, in particular, to the convenience of the establishment of a counseling social and working cooperative as well as to the advantage of employment. It is unclear why all family members should be individually cared for while not everyone else in Croatia has the right to do so. So when we talk about rights and privileges, I'm going to repeat once again, not as many defenders as others are privileged and what is going to increase by social differences that are going to be bigger and bigger, they're certainly going to hit status and that experience of the defence population.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39462	Please stay friends, because we have several replicas. He's the first respected representative of Shashin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39463	Dear colleagues, here's your discussion really reminds me very much of the time of 2000 when there was a way to discredit defenders in every way possible. It was sought with a council of negative examples, and then it was pointed out in the media, if anyone had done anything, it was mandatory to write, it is a Croatian defender, etc. I know that it's hard for you to accept the fact that after 30 years here and now, we're setting up laws on Croatian defenders, to improve, to try to find ways to help them, and all in order that this country and these defenders of ours wouldn't go the way that that country that you, in some way, regret, did, here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39464	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39465	I really don't know where you heard any of this stuff you just said. What has been my goal is to warn that indeed most in Croatia are well-determined and that the majority should get better salaries and better jobs and the possibility of actually being in a situation of obtaining and housing and establishing cooperatives etc. And as for a former state, I think it would probably be more critical than you and the members of your party who have made that transition and executed it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39466	The next replica is the respected representative Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39467	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ma'am. Peovic, here's what I've been listening to. I see you've made an effort to tell the defense attorneys everything and tell them how big their pension is. Here I'll tell you that the lowest pension is a defense 25550 kn, which the minister can testify to, but I'm surprised you didn't remember to investigate how many JNA officers received from our pension fund, how many pensions, people with a red star five-pointer destroyed my Vukovar. No, it's not a story, I've experienced it, I've seen it, here's Mr. Deur sitting here, therefore, those people don't bother you, and believe me, they draw more pension funds than Croatian defenders all together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39468	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39469	Well, buddy, I'd really like you to deny me and look at the statistics and find some irregularities and inaccuracies in that statistical data in what I've brought here. So these are the facts, the average pension is 2500 kn, the defense 6000 kuna. And to be clear, when the union worked in 2011 that consumer basket, over £6,000 was indeed a minimum for the survival of a four-member family and £6,000 should really be a pension for everyone, not just the defenders. And I think we should even everything up in rights and obligations.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39470	The next replica is the respected representative Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39471	... Dear colleagues, isn't it absurd that the work of the Institute of Arts is now problematicd after 5 years of his work and is referred to as inadequate procedures and inadequate specialists and that it is now necessary to artificialise itself in a different way and if we know that out of the total number of cases at the Office of Arts, only 10% is actually about the subject matter of the defender? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Isn't that absurd? How do you comment that so far it's not working and for five years, a bang like that has been allowed and now all of a sudden, and at this point, it's not good, and now we have to sort it all out?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39472	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39473	Well, I mean, I'm sure that a great deal of defenders would have made sense that if that institution hadn't done its job well, if there were any difficulties in the work of this office, that this institution is reformed and not that we have been singled out, and we really have to say a privileged group that is now going to have some kind of commission other and achieve its rights in some other way, means it's really completely unnecessary and Stigmatised, that we understand this population, especially at this point when we're going to have growing social differences as a consequence of the root crisis and these tourist seasons that are bad, such a type of positive "discrimination" really no one needs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39474	Thank you. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39475	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's a lot we've said today about this law, and we have before us one amendment to the law that we approach to provide the most responsible for defending our country so that we can make it easier for them to achieve their status and material rights through this law. In fact, the art that is often mentioned here we had a clear definition, but we were going to satisfy all our citizens, our people, even though experts in their expertise and trial counselling made it clear, remember? We find that this is inconclusive of the Croatian defenders. Therefore, plugs were created even though there are only 10% or how many Croatian defenders waiting for art, but either they deliberately ignore them and do not want to artificialize them and delay procedures or cannot apply civil standards to the death of the Homeland War. I believe some of it exists. I, as a man who also through my legal service in HVIDRA, receive remarks from those who have been to the arts. It's illogical for witches to judge people who are 15 years old. are treated with PTSDs that are all the time sedated, which are twice a year for 15 days or a month in our rehabilitation centres, cannot be entitled to 20% permanent disability. That's amazing to me. They're on constant medications, they're under psychotherapy all the time, they're in treatment all the time, at the psych trauma reference center, and they can't exercise their rights. Today we've met just like these, they're the most in our population that haven't left their rights, they're waiting for their rights and the two years they've been waiting for, and the 3rd year. since the application of the law and their applications have not been made so far. In the tables that we've got we see how it's going to be much more transparent and simple and there's certainly not going to be any mud because those who've been being treated for so long have nothing to hide, they've really been killed, they're real victims of the Homeland War, they're really in psychologically difficult conditions. The improvement and mortality of our defenders has been present all along. Sometimes it's bigger, sometimes it's smaller. The oscillations move in the same way as the political disturbances in the Republic of Croatia and how they happen when someone respects them or doesn't respect them, when someone insults them or disrespects them, when someone disproves them, or when certain categories of political people want to place a burden on them that they are false defenders, false people, that they are falsely missing and all the categories they mention. We've all witnessed through a lot of debates, and I've been here too long to figure out who the mother is and who the stepmother is. Therefore, in this debate too, I would like to stress well that these changes have also come in order to help those who have earned this permanent status as soon as possible, those who have truly become ill at the sight of death, watching their friends suffer, participating in their extraction, participating in their care as dead friends. I believe that we are all on the verge that this law should be adopted, that it should be put into office as soon as possible and that there are no pre-election tricks but the real need of Croatian defenders, disabled people who expect their satisfaction for what the Republic of Croatia has given. I believe that the minister who emerged from the Croatian defenders and who is as a military leader and general of the HV certainly wants no harm but wants the welfare of every person so that they can experience their age next to their family and with their loved ones and are satisfied by the state of Croatia for what they gave in the Homeland War. I believe that anyone who is honest and well-meaning doesn't ask the question, too, could ask the question of how new it is. Maybe we were setting it up at some point, 501.006 was if I remember the time the register was open, at the end of the term there were 505.800. Yeah, during the time when they were exercising their rights and proving some of them told us what it would be, there's no, what that certificate would be, they didn't even get us a new book, they didn't make any of their status papers, so they have the right to... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39476	Thank you very much, we have more replicas, stay, stay colleague Djakic. Like this, she's the first respected representative of Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39477	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Djakic, do you think that in this proposal, we should also empower the centres for psychosocial assistance, especially in the treatments to include children HRVI who are obviously some of them traumatized as their parents, so perhaps they would not enter some inappropriate traffic situations in cafes or catering facilities? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39478	Dear Representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39479	Yes, thank you very much, Vice President. My colleagues Nadj, it is a good question of centres for psychosocial assistance work, work much better than in your time, work much better than ever, are formulated in all the territory of the Republic of Croatia and in Zagreb where you have not and in Zagreb County you have been able to open or team up in your mandate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39480	The next replica of the respected MP, Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39481	I've noticed, and deny me if I've heard wrong, but you've just expressed your suspicions about the Institute of Arts and Professional Rehabilitation that the defenders are deliberately disregarded, and I'm curious if you're accusing the state institutions of discrimination, you said there'll be no fraud now. Do you think there was a hoax then? So you belong to the ruling party. Shouldn't that party have urinated if there were swindles and if certain groups had been neglected.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39482	Dear Representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39483	Thank you very much. The colleagues of Pejović, namely through the legal service of HVIDRA, are hundreds and thousands of those who have come to talk and ask for help because they have just experienced a lot of these witches who have been appointed to the Institute of Arts. We could write a whole novel about it, maybe even a book, and maybe we will. So you'll see the names they've experienced coming to art.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39484	Replica has a respected representative, Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39485	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Djakic, there's no problem with those we now want to take care of through this law, and it's about the real defenders. The problem is that some defenders allegedly charged their patriotism multiplely and illegally and corruptly acquired their property. And I believe that every socially endangered real defender can hardly identify himself with you, because you're an example of a defense attorney like you shouldn't be, someone with whom a privileged group is being identified. So, we know that the Committee for Decision on Conflict of Interest has found that you are the owner of a large asset that you could not have established to prove that it was acquired. And the problem with this country is that there are no institutions that can level it and put an end to it, that's the defense attorney's problem. A perception that binds to people like you versus those who could not exercise their rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39486	Dear Representative Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39487	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, colleague Novakovic, you're the first one who shouldn't be talking about how you've transparently equipped your commission that I told you about here in the Parliament and you should have answered for it. Secondly, I have proven my property clearly and transparently. In my divorce, there was my failure to name a few particles of vineyards from morning and a half. Is that my sin? What am I doing and creating in the vineyard for my family? Well, that's not my fault. These are your heirs who are just like you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39488	Representative Oreskovic has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39489	Article 236 has been injured, and I know that you will now give me a warning, and unfounded because this is indeed not only an attack on me, but also an attack on an independent institution. Mr. Djakic, that I am the first but unfortunately the last to say that HDZ's authority has destroyed this country by destroying and destroying institutions that cannot end thieving and corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39490	Of course you'll get a warning you know that yourself because it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so we'll go to the next replica of the respected representative of Cellic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39491	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representative Djakic, you were the longtime president of a defence association and PTSD's problem is something that appears more definitely from time to time. Social injustice and the category of defenders as one special group that suffers injustice at some point can be one stresser for the re-traumaticisation of PTSD. I think it's time to mention dr. Young Lončar, who was one of the first campers, a doctor who had spent time in an infamous camp who had been tortured and who later dealt with various forms of abuse that occurred during the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39492	Honorable representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39493	Thank you very much. Comrade Cellic, that you remember PTSD is a terrible disease that follows our defenders who do not know when they will blow up, and you are especially an expert in this problem. Dr. Crescent. The potter was the one who often saved those who were on the verge of suicide, sacrificed himself, and he always found ways and words to help them in the most difficult moments of their lifetime. I believe and I know today, and they talk to me every day because today I am still HVIDRA's leader and I have never left the defenders, I still have their support as well as the party, as well as in the defense population without any coercion.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39494	The Republic has a respected representative named Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39495	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Djakic, you will agree with me that the right to work is also one of the rights that Croatian defenders need and can realise in relation to the past period. They have been increased by 100% support for the employment of defenders, their family members, by having to say that for the first time, European self-employment funds are also being used as a step forward. There is also co-operation with Podravka for the purchase of products, agricultural products which defenders produce and open trade in Zagreb where they can place these products. I would like to know how much such programs can contribute to the self-employment of Croatian defenders and to ensuring their existence through agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39496	Dear Representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39497	Thank you very much, colleague Petyr. Yes, of course, self-employment of Croatian defenders is a preoccupation with the work and service of their family and social community certainly helps everyone. A lot less resources, programs are very good. Croatian defenders' cooperatives also 400 and some inhabit them in the Republic of Croatia. They are mostly engaged in agricultural production on our adventures that they have put into full operation and I believe that as well as through the legal provisions passed by this law for four hours so that disabled people who are retired and those who are, can work for four hours and remain the same pension. And when they work full-time, their pensions are reduced. These are real programs that encourage work, which encourage pleasure through work and create conditions for the normal lives of Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39498	The next replica of the respected representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39499	Thank you very much. Dear Djakic, we heard today from our colleagues a few hard words about this law. First of all, it's a shame, if you've heard it, I think it is, so it's wrong, that it's unfair, that we're the ones who abuse it, etc., in all sorts of ways, especially for pre-election purposes. What's the harm in that law, please? Here, you say, is it an acceleration of housing, is it of certain rights to be acquired than it is now or anything else? And on the other hand, a great deal of concern for those same defenders from those same ones who, from 2000 to 2003 and from 2011 to 2015, were not trying to humiliate us anymore. So what do we have now? Again, the story and attempt to hunt political points among the population. But that's what we hear from our colleagues who are called "righter" than we are. They also say that the Croatian Army general is not a good minister, that he is unfair, that he cannot create, that he cannot help. Is it true, is this law passed or is it just a flock, a Croatian bile and an attempt to get among that population again They create divisions. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39500	Thank you. Dear Representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39501	Thank you, Vice President. Coli Boric, of course, bears only good assumptions that will be added to the second reading by Croatian defenders, by us advocates who understand the problem, who we face daily. Surely you cannot expect those who called Croatian defenders terrorists such as Minister Matic and his secretary of state, those who fled through the last exit of the ministry and went through the field to go home, that is the bottom, which cannot stop with Croatian defenders and talk about how I should not know what to say when they are talking about this law today.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39502	We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. He's the first respected representative of the Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39503	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Never in my life will I be more pleased to receive an injury or warning under Article 238, when I will say with great thickness, Mr. Boric, you're being silly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39504	Thank you, of course you'll get that notice. Honorable representative Nadj has also committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39505	... [[Speech is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39506	To tell the truth isn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, therefore, and you haven't even called to the point, so I beg you, let's stop playing with so-called. Infringements of the Rules of Procedures which are not infringements of the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking you nicely. We can, of course, stay here until midnight today, talk about things they have and have nothing to do with the subject, but let's not play with the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, please. My colleague Simičević, you stand in the way of the injured Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39507	Yes, yes, I thank the Vice President, so Article 238, the distinguished colleague may think, but what he said is not a place here in the Croatian Parliament, and I ask him no matter how much he treats his colleagues or colleagues the second time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39508	I must warn you, too, although I agree with the fact that, unfortunately, in this assembly, communication is often a way below any level. But that people are watching us all, all of us people are watching, and yet some people are insisting on watching us this suffering when it's not being transmitted directly for a while, so they're going to know who's talking, who's treating their colleagues with the right respect and who's not. I'm afraid I can't teach anyone that. We have the next replica of the respected representative Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39509	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honorable representative is aware that you have just made a promise with these amendments to the law that within 2 months it will mean reporting all procedures in accordance with the General Administrative Procedure Act according to the new Commissions and who will then be responsible because the Minister has called for the deadline for the administrative procedure to be 2 months, then who will be responsible that when this is not the case, and whether we will have the opportunity to know in which time the case has been carried out and within which time we expect that all the items that you are entitled to be within 2 years, if the deadline is now unwarranted, will be justified for a period of 6 months, and I am sure that in 2 months you will not bring all those solutions that you intend to make under the General Administrative Procedure Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39510	Dear Representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39511	Thank you very much. Iljkic, my colleague, will be pleased that you are voting for this law that will certainly contribute as quickly as possible, I have not said for 2 months that it will be settled, it may say, the solution is made after all these processings and those commissions that should be passed which are reduced now and which do not have a previous opinion. That's the whole point. I don't know how much you understand this problem, but I'd be glad to bring it all together as I asked in previous discussions because it's the only way we show Croatian defenders that we appreciate them, that we respect them and that we want them well.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39512	And the last replica of the esteemed representative, Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39513	Thank you, Vice President. The amendments and additions to the Law on Croatian Defences today speak and related to the process of speeding up housing and through agreements that will be at the level of state bodies' resolutions, but it is also important for us to point out that, thanks to the adoption of the Law on Croatian Defences from Homeland War and the Law on Housing Care in Supported Areas in the past term, we have increased the housing of defenders from 1,000 to 2,000 families per year and what is important for us to highlight, and today we have been able to hear conflicting statements and the Croatian Council of Defence is equally equal with Croatian defenders related to housing, so members of their families have the right not only to provide housing but also to donate state property and thus are equally equal with all Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39514	The answer of the respected representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39515	Thank you, dear fellow Mažar, for making a lot of effort and a great step to provide housing for as many Croatian defenders as possible because those categories with the lowest percentage are the most damaged and they wait to be, as soon as possible, children are grown up, no longer creating the right to pay off credit for them, and there are the main problems that occur as well as putting the HVO in laws and their assistance as well as the interstate agreement that needs to be completed with BiH in order to provide as much care as possible for those who fought in the Republic but also in BiH, which was vitally important in the interest of being released and for the Croatian people to be so sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39516	Thank you very much, the next debate will be a respected representative of Rada Simičević, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39517	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Croatian Deputy Prime Minister, Defence Minister, State Secretary. Here before I say it, I would like to say here that the defenders are neither left nor right nor center, but that they are true patriots who took a rifle in '91 and set out to create a Croatian state because it turns out by this logic that the defenders are only ruling options because today the thesis to pass the law before the local elections is passed. According to that logic, we would never actually pass the law because there are always some choices so that we leave the defenders, those who created the state of Croatia and give them what belongs to them because this law changes and supplements for the Croatian defenders of the National War of 2017, it is not good and therefore needs to be changed. Although it has already been 30 years since the start of the Homeland War, and it has been expected that all the difficulties faced by Croatian defenders and their families will be resolved, these changes and additions want to enable a final solution to all the requirements that are still pending. The war is not a picnic, as it is called for the perspective of some nostalgics, but rather a hard and bloody struggle for the free and independent state of Croatia and with an enemy who has not overcome anything, and therefore we must not allow greater rights to be given to us by representatives of the Munich War or by God forbid enemy soldiers from the true and honorable volunteers of the Homeland War. And they do not receive defenders, Croatian defenders no privileges but their rights are governed by law. This law has made a step forward in regulating defence rights, opening a deadline for recognising the status of Croatian defender from the Homeland War and the status of Croatian wartime wartime invalid on the basis of disease, introducing monetary compensation for unemployed Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their family. The minimum amount of pension increases, the age limit for retirement is reduced, the right to a family pension for spouses and extramaritals, the right to housing, the right to priority in employment, the introduction of reliefs for employers who employ children of the victims or missing Croatian defenders, the ability of Croatian defenders to work in retirement and the protection of acquired rights and the extension of pension rights. Amendments and additions to this law aim to improve the establishment of the status of Croatian wartime wartime disabled persons from the Homeland War for over 2 years, an ex ante expert assessment from the process of achieving the Croatian wartime wartime invalid should be expelled, certain pension rights should be further accelerated in housing care, the possibility of single-money assistance granted to socially vulnerable defenders, some provisions of the law need to be updated in a new technical manner in order to ensure full clarity and equal interpretation. This ministry headed by Mr. Bear's true hero will. A man who has passed all major operations in the Homeland War knows how to make Croatian defenders proud. Mr. Medved knows that the Croatian defender doesn't ask for anything but wants his country to love him the way he loved his country when he went to war. Unfortunately, many did not welcome freedom, and because of them who gave their lives for Croatia, we need to do our utmost to ensure that the defenders exercise all their rights that belong to them by law so that those whom they do not have rest in God’s peace. Thank you also to Mr Plenkovic, who has provided funds for the application of the law in such a way that more than 50 million kuna is secured in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2021 and projections for 2022 and 2023. Certainly here in the end should take care of complete transparency and do everything that true defenders are not placed in the category of those who are not. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39518	Thank you very much. We've got one replica, Honorable counsel Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39519	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Col. Simičević, you said that this law is not about privileges but about rights, and I agree with you, although we have heard all sorts of debates here today and that these discussions have been held in some other countries and in some other democracies, those politicians who treat their war veterans in this way would probably never again have access to politics or to the public because in other countries, there can be particularly prominent America and Israel, all pride with their war veterans. Here we hear all kinds of remarks, untrue and it's certainly painful, it's painful for all those families of the dead Croatian defenders, it's painful for all those families of the dead Croatian defenders, 72,000 have died so far, it's painful for all those families who are imprisoned and missing, and it's almost 1,870. So, what do you think, fellow Simicevic, when we here at HS will finally reach a consensus to be valued and respected by those who created the Croatian state?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39520	Thank you. Dear Representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39521	Thank you, thank you, colleague. Yes, I would like the same thing to happen here, but Croatian defenders are in our media space defined in one way that is not appropriate. The foundations of the Croatian state are Croatian defenders, they created it, we owe the dead Croatian defenders this freedom we now have. However, this 30-year-old deviation from the Homeland War to this day is actually through the media and through, so I can also say in the systems of education and education that it does not do what should be done, that we should change both the curricula and the programs that our youngsters actually understand what their father, grandfather, so that we can sit here right now in HS. Unfortunately, I fear there will still be meetings and we will not reach consensus because simply the victim of the Croatian defender is still not appreciated enough in the Croatian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39522	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the respected representative of Stipan Shashin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39523	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Law on Croatian defenders and members of their families from 2017 They are practically systematised in a large part of the rights of Croatian defenders who were until then to say dispersed in several or several laws and thus made their implementation significantly difficult and indeed many defenders simply failed to realize and realise their rights to this day. That is why these amendments and additions of the law aim to technical or organisational measures and methods to sort out what has proved to be not yet defined, that it is not yet enforceable and that it still in some way makes it difficult to realise the rights of Croatian defenders. The weight, or some of the most significant measures or issues to be defined, are these amendments to the law, practical conditions for obtaining the right to a disability pension, then speeding up or speeding up the housing care of HRVI and the volunteers of the Homeland War, and then strengthening the psychological and health care of the same. Through the 2016 preventive medical examination programme To date, more than 66,000 defenders have been examined, and indeed more than 90% of these reviews have been screened, respectively, for additional medical examinations and diagnostic procedures, and this speaks in favor of the fact that the population of Croatian defenders is vulnerable, how health is in a difficult situation, and a large proportion of these health problems are caused by the effects of the stay or status of Croatian defenders of conditions on the battlefield, we know not only those weather conditions from winter, cold, moisture, etc., but also those psychological and all that have been passed on, on the battlefield. Before the adoption of this law of 2017 Croatian defenders who practically did not have HRVI status had very little or almost no rights, and I know they only had the right to military honours at the funeral and flag of the Republic of Croatia. This proposal, i.e. these amendments and amendments to the law, changes significantly now, mainly in the segment relating to the housing of Croatian defenders in a way that those people who have spent 2 to 3g. in the fighting sector, they are practically equalized with disabled categories of up to 20%, and those over 3.g. and more spent on the first line or combat sector have rights or acquire status as disabled of 30% and more. The fact is that we must mention that a large number of Croatian defenders after demobilization or after the Homeland War when they returned home have practically lost their jobs. We know that, in parallel with that, there has been conversion, etc., all the processes that have gone and unfortunately one large part of them have not, or very difficult to fit into new conditions, into new, new life, into a normal course, of life this. As time was moving normally that it was becoming more difficult to involve such people in a normal life in some way, it was becoming increasingly difficult to find adequate jobs for them and, in the meantime and their health situation was even worsened, for this very reason, it was very important for this social aspect of these amendments and the addition of laws where, through one-time cash aid, through benefits to the unemployed defenders trying to help us to tell the most vulnerable group or the population of Croatian defenders. Unfortunately, these are people already now and in years who really simply expect and have to have some kind of concern by the state because otherwise they themselves will, hard, hard to say their own, realize their rights. Once again in the end, I want to highlight the basic objective and purpose of these amendments to the law. So it's not about creating new defenders, creating some fake disabled people, etc. but the aim is to facilitate or simplify procedures for those individuals who have failed to exercise their rights in some way to do so until it is too late. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39524	Thank you. The next debate will be the respected representative of Marijan Pavliček. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39525	Dear Ministers, Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here I trust the Ministers that you really have proposed this bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Croatian Defence and members of their family here in the Croatian Parliament precisely because those shortcomings that have been shown in practice in future corrections. In the past few days, however, I have spoken to several Croatian defenders who have warned me that they still have a problem recognising the status of defenders for a certain period. And I'm afraid these amendments and additions to this law will not solve this problem. Namely, I have a document of time here, and later I will hand this over to you just to see, it is about the National Guard of the Republic of Croatia, the Local Community of Mitnica, Vukovar, 22 August 91st, commander of the battalion Ivo Šoljic. He died. It's the 3rd Company, there's all three waters, every platoon with three departments, we've got about 80 names here. Among them 80, 10th and today there is no status of Croatian defence attorney or no status of Croatian defence attorney for this period. So, again, on the official document of time of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, these have, in line with the new amendments and additions to the Law that came into force three years ago, applied for recognition of the status of Croatian defenders, proposed the necessary witnesses who were with them and participated in the defense of the City of Vukovar and are also on this list, however, all have been rejected. The reason is that the commander has made a statement that this document is authentic, but it is about how much he remembers about people who were temporarily there and did not actively participate in the defence of the city of Vukovar. On the other hand, we have this official document that should mean something in the rule of law. Unfortunately, because of these similar documents, people later ended up in camps, getting beat up, some and executed, similar situation, here I just got a few minutes ago from a lady who's from Vukovar, living in Rijeka today, who says my husband has the status of defender but four months who spent as a volunteer are not recognised to him. He accidentally discovered it in 98, and, according to this Law, submitted a request with two witnesses, was rejected, re-launched, and the second time was rejected and filed a complaint to the Administrative Court. The lawsuit was received and the Administrative Court returned everything to the beginning and her husband managed, by chance, to obtain a document of time, namely, has confirmation issued by the Government's commissioners that he was a member of the 204th Wiccan Reserve Brigade. So the Resort Ministry of Defence didn't respect that document. Now the question is whether we will succeed in these amendments and additions to the law to solve this problem, I believe that primarily for you as a participant of the Homeland War and a war general the goal is for all those who took part in the defence of the Republic of Croatia to get that status if they deserve it, and I believe that here there are people who deserve it, unfortunately because of this way of obtaining the status, they did not get it. I think it's absurd to even look for witnesses besides documents like this, so here I hope that we can somehow find some solution to the future to get these people to meet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39526	Thank you. The next debate will be the respected representative of Ante Deura. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39527	Dear Vice President, Honorable Vice President of the Government, Minister of Croatian Defence, dear colleagues, I welcome all of you here. I welcome you all here for sure all afternoon we have been discussing something that should not be represented in this way at all, one, the addition of the law that is very necessary, which throughout all these years, when we take the Law on Croatian Defences, which began somewhere in violation of 2000, respected Mrs. Nadj will remember very well, where the destruction of the value of the foundation of the Croatian state began. Where the Ministry of Croatian Defence then went through everything that was not good. Then we move on, we come to the exadamation of Ministers Mrsic and Fred Matic. We come to what Minister Matic himself admitted that the ministry had divided it, that they had taken everything from him, from the social minister to various ministries. There is a protest where 100% disabled people show their institutions that something is wrong. We're asking a question today, Mrs. Nadj. It is a reminder to all of us here together, regardless of what political parties we are from, regardless of our beliefs, that this Croatian man in the 1990s gave the greatest pain to his country that these are the values that come from God. Minister Medved is coming, taking over the ministry at an extremely difficult moment where the protest is still going on, where the ministry is divided, where the law itself is not to mention it now because after this we have civilian victims who were a terrible attempt, one extraordinary, exceptional. We'll talk about him after this. Check-ups, medical committees. All this Croatian public saw, the dying of Croatian defenders. Dying emotions where institutions didn't recognize the greatest value of man. This is what we complement ourselves about, instead of proposing and giving the Croatian Defence Ministry ideas on how to make the care of a Croatian man better, i.e. Croatian defender. It's Minister Bear and this government with all its associates, this isn't a new law, this isn't a law that enters into one dispersion of bone. This is a unification to try to unite as best as possible and that the Croatian defender today and members of their families can really get as good information and status as possible. If someone was a Croatian defender, and he did not until that time seek his status, why not have the right to do so today. What is this power, and who can stop it? And I certainly agree that we must all go together, there can always be situations that are not even illogical and that have no reality. That is why we are here and that is why the man who wants to do this is the Croatian Ministry of Croatian Defence who is indeed in the position of every Croatian defender. And we have to do this one of the most certain things that have been done are medical commissions and systematic examinations where indeed the minister is on several occasions where very little and the public is familiar, where it really is something that is very necessary, which many Croatian defenders in various counties were not unfortunately in a position to make these medical examinations. Mortality, yes, unfortunately, is that sacrifice that was given without precedent in the 1990s.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39528	Thank you. We've got more replicas. The first one's a respected representative of Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39529	Thank you. Comrade Deur, I agree with you. Until SDP and HDZ agree on the law, there will be no peace. Because every time the SDP's minister comes, you're gonna be a raised tent, there won't be peace. But if we're talking about the return of dignity to Croatian defenders from the Homeland War then I refer to a colleague of the Cell who mentioned Dr. The potter. Dr. Crescent. Lonchar is one of the founders of psychosocial aid and the National Center for Psychotraum. He died on 27.2. He died after being fired from the D.A.'s office. So what kind of a return to the dignity of a Croatian defender who came with Minister Njavar and the camper. What kind of a back-up is that?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39530	Dear Representative Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39531	Honorable MPs, you're always giving. That's a good thought. I'm sorry about our doctor, and I agree with you, and I'm sorry about what happened. I'm not familiar with the whole situation, so I can't comment on it exactly, but unfortunately, you're right. In 2000, there were so many victims who ended up on the street from The Hague to various prisons that are now based on that line. Think about it a little bit, so we'll, you can publicly ask me that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39532	The next replica of the respected representative of Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39533	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representative Deur, the House of Croatian Veterans in Lipik is an excellent example of how to access the victims', defender's population in an adequate way. Here we can point out a bright example of the institution for comprehensive care in Rakitije, which is related to the First Guard Brigade of Tigers and to the special units of the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Croatia. So, it's still too little, and I think that in this period of both previous and current governments, everything seems, so that particularly vulnerabilitating part of the defence population of which are rarely people who are already at a certain age, who live alone. These are all some projects to work on and here we see exactly how much it is necessary for such institutions as the House of Croatian Veterans in Lipik.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39534	The answer of the esteemed representative, Deura.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39535	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm sure you mentioned Lipik, surely a well-sighted and well-known place where Croatian defenders are very happy and happy. It is something that is manifested, which the minister also mentioned that veteran centres that are yet to be finished, but one thing that has unfortunately happened to Croatian defenders is, unfortunately, for many years we have had to deal with ourselves that unfortunately the institutions have not responded in the best and most qualitative way and that we are dealing with today some things that we have to correct and supplement something that should have been solved long ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39536	The next replica of the respected representative Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39537	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, Your Honor. Mr. Deur, there has been a debate today as to how these amendments to the law have been made for some local campaign and the upcoming local elections, and even on the Veterans Committee, this issue has been extended. Do you think that this is really the law that is being done because of, or because of the amendments to the laws that are coming, or that there is a right to the injustice that is important to go to the hand that this injustice has awaited because we have changed the law, or we are changing the law from 2017 just to help those who gave the most for the Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39538	Dear Representative Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39539	Thank you, Your Honor. So as the minister in his presentation, the Ministry of Defence and Association of Homeland War has a partnership, and in the law itself, all of them participated. And it certainly shows how much in the past was the situation and in the very law that was not made up of quality and which must be complemented and put into a unique law for as much care as possible, for the quality of it. I think it's this way from our friends of their political communication that unfortunately in the moments of losing their choices they're trying to do everything to get into the public and media position and that's all for the purpose of one political manipulation they're trying to impose on the victim, and that's not good because many of them are aware that they can't do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39540	The next is the replica of the esteemed representative of Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39541	My dear colleague here, I would like to incentivize you in some way, or I believe that you will agree with me that what bothers defenders the most in the larger cases is this one incorrect not to say both sometimes and underestimatingly to them. I can give you a specific example of this where a soldier of mine when marking the anniversary of the brigade, we asked for a medal for it. At the time, Minister Matic, on the basis of this request, asked him to personally bring in all the paperwork needed for it. The man is 19.12.91. He lost his leg, he was hit with a buzz in the vehicle and lost his leg and today a man works in the economy, Mr. Klaric knows him there in Rijeka. This one asked him to come from Rijeka to bring the papers there. That's what hurts people, that's what just makes people cramp, just he said you don't need anything from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39542	Dear Representative Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39543	Thank you very much. Well, you've said more or less, and the answer to that question itself, we haven't defined today's Homeland War medal until the end, and that's what we're trying to do. Minister Medved, when he came to the ministry, tried it in the most qualitative way to be as fast and quality as possible to be really on the initiative of the Homeland War Associations, which are proposing a medal, but it is unfortunately a long-term job that still needs to be done in quality for units still and for certain as we all know we have said that certain operations must get their status and their confessions. And I think that's it, all of us together have to work on it so that this civil form is somewhere behind us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39544	And the last replica of the respected representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39545	Thank you very much. Comrade Deur, here we have been listening to these discussions today and you have also looked back at some of them who have tried this law, good law, changes and additions, aware that it compares to a reduction in the rtv subscription if you have followed the debate. It means why we're not reducing the rtv subscription, and we're giving some new rights to Croatian defenders. As HDZ and members, we never at least know what I know here in the Croatian Parliament questioned the rights, for example, of those who achieved them by their participation in World War II, including the inherited family pensions, etc., based on this participation. Why do you keep doing this to Croatian defenders? That's the basic question. Who wants to create political platforms on that? And we're not surprised when it might come from the left, but we've heard that today comes from the right, from those who say they're big advocates of these rights, etc., just when they need them in campaigns, etc. What is it that we today through this law offer to be new or that I don't know what it's going to cause I don't know what kind of Move in those numbers? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39546	Thank you. Dear Representative Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39547	Thank you. Your Honor, I'm certainly pleased to see our sovereign friends or when they're in a very good, very good dialogue with the SDP or with the Workers' Front, it's very nice, and that's certainly one advance in society. But Croatian defenders and the Homeland War must not be the basis for such dialogues on the victim in the Homeland War. The Croatian defender must be a symbol, a force of what was the greatest blessing of the creation of the Croatian state. And that is something that should not be debated for so many hours regardless of our differences, President Tudjman Supreme Commander created a Croatian state with the entire Croatian people, with all their stakeholders and recognized this Croatian man and the desire for his country. And I think that it should be one force for all of our colleagues in the future of thinking in this Croatian Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39548	Thank you very much. Now, we're gonna be done for hours, so we're gonna take a break for the wind, and I'll see you in 15 minutes, so at 16:45. [[It's 4:00 P.M.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 16,46 HOURS]] My colleagues and colleagues, here's the break we're running out of, so now they're going to speak to the esteemed representative Nevenko Barbaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39550	... By law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families 3 years ago, many people say he has dealt with the status of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] [[Here it is, I've got you involved.]] As the proposal amends and complements the law and states that certain measures provided for in the law need to be further adapted to the needs of users in order to fully result in the planned effects, it gives a forceful explanation of these amendments and additions. Therefore, the purpose of amending and supplementing the existing law is to remove the observed shortcomings. The amendments and additions to the Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families are part of the National Plan for Care of Croatian Defendants as it stands in the National Development Strategy for the next 10 years, which was recently adopted in this Assembly. Protecting the dignity of the Homeland War and lasting care for Croatian defenders and members of their families are the cornerstone of the modern Croatian state, according to the above-mentioned strategy, one of the priority areas of public policy. In my presentation, I will briefly refer to the amendments and additions to the Law on Defence to which the rights of members of the HVO are touched. I thank you for the meeting in Mostar, a representative of the resolution ministry with representatives of the Croatian National Assembly Defence Department. So this is a body made up of representatives of all associations from the Homeland War, representatives of political parties and executives dealing with issues concerning the care of the defence population and are from the ranks of the Croatian people, a total of 38 members of the board. The meeting may be considered as part of a public debate. After further clarifications, the HNS Department for the Defence Question supports the amendments and additions to this law that speed up the procedure, removing some ambiguity in the implementation of which I have spoken in this Assembly as well as on the parent board. Indeed, there are complex political opportunities in BiH, an attempt to take away the consistency of the Croatian people. The illegality of representation, the denial of equality for the consequence has a confiscation, a reduction of all other rights, as well as the general status of members of the HVO and members of their families. In addition to the poor economic situation, the question is how to protect the dignity of the Homeland War, how to take care of the members of the HVO, Croats in BiH are the truth and the dignity of the Homeland War, key issues of survival as a constituent people. Therefore, other topics have been opened at that meeting, to help members of the HVO who, for various reasons, have been constantly resident in the Republic of Serbia or in certain areas in the Federation, have been helped by the parents of the dead Croatian defenders who are constantly staying in the Republic of BiH, such as Republika Srpska or certain communities in the Federation, are in a difficult material situation, who will help them and are giving the biggest victim. How to help students of child victims of war, how to help patients in treating a similar. We have a lot of needs, problems that we cannot solve ourselves, we have an understanding of the overall situation in the Republic of Croatia. Once again, thanks to the respected Minister Medveda and this government for everything they do for the BiH Croats.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39551	Thank you very much. The next debate will be a respected representative of Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39552	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. In the early 1990s he marked the Homeland War and he brought with him certain consequences and psychological consequences, so in '92, '93. The first Croatian defenders are beginning to come to different psychiatric departments, and so the Vrapce Psychology Clinic, first diagnosis, psychoneurosis, depression, is being first diagnosed with PTSD as a model for war veterans from Israel, the United States, the first mention of PTSD was described in 1974 in Israel when it was called war neurosis in a soldier who later moved to PTSD. We've already heard some statistics, some figures that the minister mentioned in the opening presentation, so here I'd like to talk a little bit more about these figures. Based on the Health Protection Act, HZZ is responsible for producing health indicators on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. Based on the agreement with the Croatian Defence Ministry, HZJZ has the possibility to use the Croatian Defence Register. The most common reasons for hospitalisation in male defenders came from a group of cardiovascular diseases, these are data for 2019 published in December 2020, while women had malignancies. The mental disorders in men are on the third and women in the sixth place. PTSD was one of the most complex mental disorders, the Homeland War was a defence war for the independence and integrity of the Croatian state against the aggression of joint Serbian forces. Croatia also won the so-called The psychological war because bringing the truth about the Homeland War and the destruction managed to show the international community who the aggressor was and who the victim had an important role in the media. In the first days of the war when it was most needed was the crucial and high morals of Croatian defenders defending their country. The psychological consequences of the Homeland War, disease and the lasting consequences of Croatian defenders and their families, as well as citizens who suffered war trauma remained until today, and according to numerous publications published over the past years, Croatian defenders are more often affected by the consequences of work. In the period 1990-1996, 7,609 Croatian defenders died, and 1,013 Croatian defenders died of disease, disease deterioration or disease outbreak or committed suicide as a result of the psychological illness caused by participation in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. Croatian defenders face different risks and problems, such as poverty, disability, unemployment, disease, but can also be singled out as a particularly vulnerable group due to the long-standing and severe consequences of war-related suffering. According to CEZIHA and hospitalization database 2019, almost 37,000 persons were reported in Croatia who due to PTSD and permanent changes in personality after so-called The chronic PTSD used health care. The highest number of patients, almost 40% of them come from Split-Dalmatia, Osijek-Baranja County and the City of Zagreb. After PTSD, the second group is a depressive disorder. According to the death records of the Croatian Institute of Public Health and the Croatian Defence Register in Croatia in 2019, 4 888 dead Croatian defenders of the Homeland War were recorded. If we look at the average age of dead defenders in 2019, it was 63.2 years, which is very significant compared to the general population because the average age of the dead inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia was 77 years. In November 2016, a systematic review of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War began, 56 363 defenders were reviewed by the beginning of December and some recommendations were received after the completion of the systematic review. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39553	Thank you very much. We have more replicas. The first is the respected representative Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39554	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, in systematic examinations of defenders of all previous years psychological tests have not been conducted in all institutions. Furthermore, when you look at new diagnosiss, mental disorders and behavioral disorders were surprising in some 8th place. So number one is endocrine, metabolic disorder, so hyperlipidemia, etc. The fact is that our defenders have the need for psycho-social assistance, for help and experts, so psychiatrists, psychologists, do you have any information on how many are in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, I am talking about experts, and do you think that number is enough? Because even if you see these people who respond to systematic examinations, there are people who come a few years in a row, and those who really need help may not even show up and don't detect themselves as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39555	Dear Representative Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39556	Dear colleagues, Maric, therefore, 44.4% of defenders responded to a systematic review, of which 49% were referred to a specialist, some received recommendations on lifestyle change, so when we talk about a group of mental disorders and behavioral disorders they are not in the first place, so they are in the first place of the cardiovascular system disease, various metabolic disorders, evil congenital diseases, so unfortunately you are right, so many times those who are most at risk do not go to systemic examinations, they are very difficult to get, rather some defenders who are involved in different defence associations will go to the doctor and there is now actually a question of family medicine to try to animated and local communities to try to animated these people to go to the doctor's appointments.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39557	The next replica of the esteemed counsel of Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39558	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Col. Celic, part of the opposition, and part of the public if you want to criticise the Law that extends the rights of Croatian defenders, and that argument might have a logic if from these circles, if a general debate on the reform of the state, the budget was asked to be opened, and of course within that and the rights of all social groups. However, I have a sort of impression that only the rights of Croatian defenders are troubled, at least this passionately. Do you have such an impression on the basis of both your profession and the professional debate you have now had, what effect on the population of Croatian defenders is this exactly the course of the debate here in the Croatian Parliament?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39559	Dear Representative Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39560	Dear fellow Stier, a person may suffer from malignant disease but may have a subjective sense of health. So despite the fact that she is suffering from a serious illness, if she is not currently in pain she can have a subjective sense of health, counterpart Shaslin spoke about how Croatian defenders experienced social injustice during a certain period of time, which could have been like a trigger and could have been used for re-traumatisation, especially in those who were diagnosed with post-traumatic stress disorder. We are talking today about certain groups, vulnerabilities and in the National Strategy that is related to the protection of mental health in the first draft, Croatian defenders were not even listed as the target group. For example, there were listed national minorities, persons with disabilities, but Croatian defenders as one vulnerabilities, this is, of course, with the great engagement of the Croatian Defence Ministry moved, and now it is a very important item in that National Strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39561	Thank you. The next replica, the esteemed Uncle's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39562	Colic, in your discussion you touched the diseases of Croatian defenders from PTSD, I will say the wounding of the soul. Namely, when you are wounded by bullets, grenades, mines, that injury is visible because it is physical, however, the wounds on the soul that are often and far more difficult are invisible. You mentioned that the disease was first registered in 1974 in Israel and that it hit a number of our defenders. But we're talking about the defense population, and far less about the families of those same defenders who suffer from PTSD, their mothers, their fathers, wives, children who are also affected by seeing how much their closest dad, mom, brother, father, grandfather, son, suffer for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39563	Dear Representative Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39564	Thank you. Dear fellow Strick, unfortunately we had a situation when the PTSD diagnosis was somehow relativated and politically instrumentalized. Of course, abuses are always possible, but as you said those mental sufferings that are often hidden, we now live in the time of the covid epidemic and in the first plan are of course physical consequences, therefore related to the respiratory system, and the psychological consequences were short-term, were in some way long-term in the second plan. There are people who suffer serious mental suffering and who don't want to talk about it. This is a certain problem if we want to give them a certain therapeutic intervention. And you've well established, so when we talk about PTSD, he has implications not for the individual who has experienced this intense trauma but also for the members of his family.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39565	The next replica of the respected representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39566	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My question concerns who they are, or did your research show, what you are talking about, what are the main sources of retraumaticisation, so what are these phenomena, do you, do you have information about which for Croatian defenders and members of their families are the main source of retraumaticisation and what are some factors of social risk that we should actually hear and take into account here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39567	Dear Representative Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39568	So if we're talking about PTSD, so it's a complex syndrome that contains a number of mental disorders, it would be very simple to speak unequivocally now it's a consequence because it's on its own option A or option B, so there's a whole series of factors, but the perception of general change is definitely a very important factor, a prognostic factor. There is a question of employment status, so let's say a very important component, and there is, regardless of certain disability, whether it is a physical or mental disability, this working therapeutic aspect will certainly be beneficial, in this sense, it is good to develop different defence cooperatives, OPGs, organic farming, so these can be certain protection factors, the protection factor is both a functional family and a functional environment, so there are no special advantages but only by respecting certain aspects that people have the possibility of developing in a society of equal opportunities.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39569	And the next replica of the respected representatives of the coat of arms of Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39570	Mr. Vice President of the Assembly, Minister. Dear counterpart Celic, from the health indicators you have now given us here, it is clear that Croatian defenders are high-risk for disease, 56,000 defenders have been systematically examined, but there are many of those left, and I agree with all those who have said that indeed part of the people remained out of these systematic reviews. I think there's room to move through the Ministry of Defense, through all the organizations that exist in the defense community, through the defense community there's been a lot of work to sensitize the defenders that a systematic review is for their own good, which is really true. Can we as a society, we here as advocates, all those who have influence, through the media, so through anything else, can we do anything else to get the defenders to say this this way for systematic examinations in order to actually preserve their health?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39571	Dear Representative Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39572	Thank you. Dear colleagues of the coat of arms, I think the public discourse is very important. If we look at the general population and the national preventive programmes of the County Institute for Public Health and their services can do a certain part, the Croatian Defence Ministry will do a part with its professional services. If we look at the data, only 8% of the surveyed Croatian defenders did not need any additional diagnostic procedures, which also depicts the overall general psychophysical status of the target population of the Republic of Croatia. We as politicians also have an affirmative approach to the value of the Homeland War, according to Croatian defenders who are the foundation of an independent Croatian state, can contribute to making them feel better in their skin and that may be indirect, but it can still contribute to that feeling and for the need to go to a systematic review can be a better result.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39573	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the esteemed representative of Angel Strick's, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39574	Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39575	Dear Vice-President HS, Deputy Prime Minister, ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Today, much has been said during today's debate on the material rights of Croatian defenders, and how these same rights are acquired, respect for Croatian defenders and, of course, the dignity of the Homeland War. However, since I come from Varazdin County, I would look back a little on the northern part of Croatia. I believe that the north of Croatia has given much to defend and liberate our country. First, he captured the entire JNA Corps, or 32 JNA Corps, and thus armed our homeland and gave the most extensive troops of the Croatian army and police. The fifth battle of the first A brigade of Tigers in '92. The year has grown into the 7th Guard Brigade of Puma, the 104th Brigade of the Croatian Army, and a special unit of the Rhoda Police, which tomorrow marks its 30th anniversary. So this is where I congratulate all of Rod's members on their 30th anniversary. Two symbols, two cities, or two symbols of the Homeland War Knin and Vukovar, are tied to the Varazdin police officers or soldiers. The Vukovar as a symbol of the death of police officers, and Knin as a symbol of freedom, liberation right next to the army or the 7th Guard Brigade of Puma. So, two hours ago, I replicated to the esteemed representative Sacic, or wartime commander of the special police department of the MUP, that I am pleased that after 30 years, thanks to the vice-presidents of the Medved and Bozinovic, the Varazdin police finally receive their monument. A total of 37 police officers died from the Varazdin Police Department in the Vukovar defense and attempted to breach Vukovar. We will mark tomorrow's anniversary in accordance with the epidemiological measures of course. And these measures tell us enough what challenging times we live in. It is the government of Prime Minister Plenkovic who is also in this and in the past term is taking great care of Croatian defenders, and this is what the government has said in the past term that the entire Act on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families has been passed, that for the first time the Law on Persons Missing in the Homeland War has been passed, that the Law on the Declaration of Vukovar was passed by the place of a special homeland petite, that the 18th November was declared on the day of memory of the victims of the Homeland War and the day of memory of the victim of Vukovar and Škabrnja, and that for the first time today we are discussing a new full proposal of the Law on Civil Victims from the Homeland War. I believe that it is all these laws that aim to pay primary respect to Croatian defenders, and then to take care of the dignity of the Homeland War. Also in his debate here, our colleague Sacic mentioned that it was discussed on the Veterans Committee whose I am not a member of the award of monuments and medals to defenders. Considering I'm in '91. The year the aggression against the Republic of Croatia began was a high school or a high-school police school, August 5th and '91. There's been an indication that all adult pies are placed in the defense of their homeland. That's what we all did, not just the minors, but the minors. The day today, none of us got the satisfaction of getting a monument or a medal or a thank-you note, although our rights have been recognised, we have status, but it's not up to the prime minister, it's not up to the minister, it's up to the war chief of the middle police, or exactly the military commanders of the task force are obliged to propose their officers for the award of medals and medals and to take care of them. Thanks, I'm running out of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39576	Thank you, Your Honor. You have two replicas. First respected representative Andreja Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39577	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear colleague, here I am joining you for the anniversary of a special unit of the Rod police. As I come from the north, then one question from that area. Our defenders and veterans are many involved in different associations, defense societies, etc., some are, some are not. And now that I have spoken to some of these people in the Međimurje area, many have complained that in case they need to resolve their socioeconomic status, health issue, or just talk that simply these ordinary members have no one to address. What would you tell these people in the Međimurje area to turn to? And when I watched the social networks of one of those groups, then there was a reaction to the invitation of Minister Bear to surrender illegal weapons. Some of them were behind it. Some have criticized it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] What's your position on illegal weapons? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39578	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39579	Here, thank you. Let me explain tomorrow's anniversary a little bit more. So Varazdin County and Međimurska, and we know that the counties were formed in '93. They had a community, a joint special unit of the Rod police, so here's our date. And when we talk about defenders, look, so after the war, a lot of the troops are disbanded, and the only place where the defenders can get together is in defense groups. Most of these military units have their own association, and the easiest way to solve it is through these organizations. I believe that in the area of the Varazdin County all existing associations of the 7th Guard Brigade of Puma, special units of the Rod police, 104th brigade of the Croatian Army, associations of volunteers, veterans, associations of campers, HVIDRE are doing well and maximum exits to meet their colleagues. So between decentralisation and the rationalisation of the office's costs, the state administration has been put down in the jurisdiction of the county So I think it's another step towards the ground. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39580	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative Maja Grba Bujevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39581	Dear Vice-Presidents of the Assembly, Ministers, fellow Strick, and I, of course, join the Rods and their particle for all that they have done, but in this pre-resurrection time remember another event. It is a bloody Easter, it will now be marked also 30 years from the bloody Easter where it has actually shown clearly how things stand and how many neutralitys so-called. JNA. Since I was an event participant in Plitvice, I was surrounded by people from all over Croatia, with many motivated people, very young people of pitomats, specialists, so it was one answer that was quickly organised, but certainly showed then what the Croatian state actually thought of JNA. Now that this bloody Easter is approaching, you'll agree with me that it should be evaluated in some way and mentioned in HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39582	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39583	Of course, I agree with you that it is important to respect and mark all these important anniversarys of Pakrac, Plitvica, Borovo settlements were the first attacks of the Serbian forces on Croatian positions and when trying to create a great Serbia on the route of Vukovar-Karlovac-Karlobag all eastwards and wanted to take possession of the great Serbia. But it is also important to remind ourselves that when the aggression against the Republic of Croatia was carried out, we did not have our own army, our armed forces were part of the police, special forces of the police who later grew up to be a part of the special police force, and a part of the National Guard that then grew into the primary Croatian army. September 21, '91. An order was just issued to form or appoint the Chief of Staff of the Croatian Army, until then everything was.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39584	Thank you very much. You no longer have the replicas you can put in place. We continue with individual debates. Next in line is Honorable Representative Nino Rasdic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39585	Dear Vice-Presidents of the Parliament, respected ministers, respected co-workers of ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. You've all probably had this situation in your life, and I've, unfortunately, met her several times when you call a master to fix something complex for you that you can't solve for yourself and come master and face that problem and says no matter who did this to you has nothing to do with your life. I once had a good-looking situation where I invited the master to solve something and, of course, he says who did this to you doesn't, so I'm saying, Master, you were the last one to do it. Well, now or then, you had nothing to do with it, so in the meantime, you learned or now you're spreading demagogy. I spoke today in the replica of our responsibility, us as legislators, especially about the responsibility of colleagues from the ruling majority who have the opportunity to pass a law like this or like that. Laws in which there are failures, laws that are not good, laws that do not work out in practice, do harm. A lot of people couldn't achieve their rights, defense rights because the law that was passed just three years ago wasn't good enough. Who passed the law? Well the same minister, the same associates were then just three years ago who completed it and repaired it along with all of us here today. I don't like it now, I'm not here to salt my brains or to pull the ear of Minister Bear and say that you could then miss the fact that these skills are too complicated that people are going to be frustrated and that many will give up in that complication, that you didn't see three years ago that it might be better to centralize art in the ministry, not in the office, etc. We're not here to share the pucks. And I think and I'm very pleased with today's debate on all sides, we've heard a lot of good and constructive proposals, we're all here today together to pass an excellent Law on Croatian defenders that will allow our defenders to exercise their rights in the simplest and most reliable way possible, so here we are today. But something needs to be learned from the near past. How come these problems haven't been seen three years ago? Was it a lack of expertise, an expert assessment, or was it perhaps a lack of communication with the field with defence associations, with defenders concrete that sent proposals or perhaps a lack of hearing for what the opposition had proposed to the extent that it had been constructively proposed? For the record, then I would be out of politics, but today my colleagues from the Mosta Club specifically represented Bulj and Strenja Linic gave about 13 amendments then. Bulj then roared here that some things were inconclusive which in practice proved to be. I'll repeat, we're not here to make points now, we're here to avoid making the same mistakes. So, the law is now in the first reading, we have had a long, long and very good debate, we have heard from the ruling and by the opposition of very good things and suggestions, there will be safe and quality amendments in the second reading. I appeal to all of us, especially the ruling majority, to open our ears to all sides where good proposals can come from, to finally vote here together a law that we will not change in three years, not in five, not in 10, but hopefully in 20 years, which will foresee all possible difficulties that can occur in practice in the realisation of the rights of our defenders and give such a legislative framework that will thus help overcome all these difficulties and that defenders will finally have one secure, reliable legislative framework that will not be patched up every few years but that will permanently resolve their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39586	Thank you, Your Honor. You have one replica of that esteemed representative of Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39587	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague. Of course, we all need to be interested regardless of what side of this assembly we come from in the interest of a single fair law against Croatian defenders who must be enforceable. That's why I've been talking all the time, and I supported this last law because I think it will be, and then I was giving amendments when I said personally that it wouldn't be enforceable. Part accepted, part not for what? Is that if after 30 years, a colleague of Raspadić, 30 years that we do not have a law that is enforceable for Croatian defenders and just is a terrible bad message for those who have created the foundations of the Croatian state, which is Croatia. This is why there is no politicisation here and only for pre-election purposes to pass certain laws Here we have to be both SDP and HDZ and MOST and we can or we don't know who's unique. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39588	Thank you, thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39589	I have nothing special or additional, nor to be taken away, but to appeal once again, and today I have seen through all these hours that there really exists among all and well-intentioned, and that MPs have tried and made concrete suggestions, that in the second reading with further sensitization of the public's call and defense associations to once again consider the proposal and give any suggestions and additions, that we will indeed pass an excellent law that will give the defenders security, stability and a simple and reliable way in which they can exercise their rights and that we will not change it for 10 or 20 years because there will be no need for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39590	Thank you, no more replicas. We're moving forward with an individual debate. Next in line for participation in an individual debate, she is a respected representative of Josip Boris. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39591	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Government with my associates, I took this debate today to say something about these amendments and the additions of the Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families because we witnessed a debate that was alive and which from different angles looked at this bill and I think we have repeated in my sense, and I have been here for a long time some discussions that appeared on the same topic and in the previous years whenever it comes to Croatian defenders. What I didn't understand is what I didn't understand is these are remarks about what the law was offering, and everything goes in terms of improvement. So we heard why it should be against such a law, so we heard the words that it is harmful, that it is bad, that it does not contribute, that it creates from the defenders a special population, to isolate them, to give them the first ones that may not have earned, that they do not deserve any new opportunities again in order to exercise such a right. That's what I think in this home, of course anyone can say what they want to say, but the story of that population is always sensitive. And because of that, when it comes to it, I think we should look at what it says here with a dose of emotion and reason. We've heard that we're fixing, we're always fixing laws, we're writing new ones, or we're fixing them if we've established something that wasn't right. I looked at the government's 2020-2024 programme in a clear way in the area where the story of defenders, defenders, is listed as the solid foundation of Croatia's homeland. It says clearly on that page what we're going to do. There are also two laws that we will discuss today. This government has its own program and implements it. And those are our obligations. We said, we offered it to the citizens, they accepted it, they accepted it in the elections. And that is why the attempt to bring down this debate and some rights concerning the acceleration of the process already before the rights to the level of reduction of the rTV fee as some here have said is unacceptable to me because we are talking about people who were not born in 2020 or maybe even in the '90s, so they will exercise the rights in 2021 as they try to create themselves in the Croatian public. That again in 2021, we're giving some rights to people who shouldn't have gotten them. Can I have the right here to some Croatian defenders or defenders who were not in the Homeland War? I don't think so. Who can't prove they were part of the Homeland War. It doesn't say anything. There really is an impression of numbers, 500,000 Croatian defenders, and everyone just because they got status has already achieved many rights. So let's see how much these rights are. We have the numbers. If we're talking about pensions we have numbers, if we're talking about some fees we have numbers, if we're talking about housing, etc., there's no 500,000. Unfortunately, some in this population have failed to assess or evaluate or have passed time and, of course, failed to create conditions for them to exercise their right. Why would they forbid it if it was at that time when it was meant to be the ones who wanted to give their life to create this country? And that's why I find it unacceptable. To think of them in such a way as a population privileged to exercise only rights. In my replica, I never allowed myself to question the rights of World War II, and even today we have 7,000 I think 700 pensions that are paid under the Pension Insurance Act for people who gave their pain in that war so they inherited some of their family and such pensions because it is legal. But no matter how many we call to the right, left, etc., we always try, always one option in some way trying to put this group of defenders in line, always having to question them, always having to be ashamed of them for their rights and when they need to get it. Is 2021, '22. or in '23, if we're going to take care of all Croatian defenders 30 years after the war, and that's our country's question. And not just states and local self-government and all those who can help. But why do we keep questioning it? Now that's a question. Is the reason the election, do we want to be I don't know Different, if that's what I'm saying is what this law solves, acceleration. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It's a basic message.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39592	Thank you very much, Your Honor. You have one replica, distinguished representative Stipan Sashlin, I hope I've spoken the good name.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39593	Dear counterpart Boris, here is how much we are following this debate and replica all today, we can indeed conclude that the opposition representatives agree that these proposed amendments are good laws and necessary. The only problem with them is that after 3 years we are discussing the Law on Croatian Defence. In my view, if it is necessary and in 2 years we will discuss it again and if we will help these amendments to one Croatian defender to achieve his rights that he has failed to achieve so far, I think we have achieved this goal. That's why the laws are to be passed, to be corrected, to be changed, to be corrected. Here, I'd like to ask your opinion on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39594	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39595	Thank you, dear colleague Shashin. I agree with you completely when we get a directive from the European Union and we need to coordinate these many questions there is no. We have objections, but we'll get along, if we notice that something's not going well, why are you doing it now? We're working because we want to or we've noticed that we need to work this out, speed up the process of achieving, I don't know, the status of a Croatian military disabled, or take over the skills to deal with it more once. We hear, 3,000 requests are waiting, we can't solve it, we need to speed up the process or I don't know, living care of Croatian defenders, speeding up the process, we've written it down in the program, and we're going to solve it, and this law allows it, and I think it's acceptable for everyone, and I think we should probably support it from everyone. We're talking about the population of Croatian defenders, there's neither nice nor right nor center, and I don't know what, they're Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39596	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Let's move on. The next representative who applied for participation in an individual debate is distinguished representative Eric Fabianic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39597	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. With these amendments and additions to the Law on Defense, I realized one thing. Yes, since the quarter of the century since the war, we still have unemployed defenders, residential defense attorneys, and that they still have problems with their status. It turns out we're still a state of creation. As a defender, I'll tell you, please stop defending my dignity and my dignity because by speaking de facto, you're jeopardizing it. But literally. If I'm gonna be a lawyer, I'm gonna be a lawyer by the time I'm a lawyer, I'm not gonna be a lawyer by profession. That's what I'm saying on purpose, because if we're the foundations of this country then the system in this country has to work, and that means that the Office of Arts has to work. And then it wouldn't have waited two years if they were defenders or if some other people were disabled. What makes our citizens lose their right to retire when they go to work abroad because of the concentration of internships? That's what I was talking about in this pay phone. That's one reason. So, if the system doesn't work, the bad message is far from speeding up the defenses' proceedings, it will, but only to the defenders and then to the public's eyes, and I think we fought for all the citizens of Croatia, and not just for the defenders, we send a bad message, you defend yourself. You didn't defend yourself for this country or for the defense of these citizens. And that's a bad message, unfortunately, but that's right. When we talk about the rule of law mechanism, if we're a state, here's a game I turned 50th, I'm approaching 60th, whether I have to ask for the systematic or the state that takes care of me will tell Fabianić you have the right to a systematic, second thing whether you're going to use your right or not. Why should I, as a defense attorney, beg someone if we have a system that works, if we have a register that's public and who's famous? For which reason, it is no problem to sign GDPR, I will publicly admit that I am a Croatian defender, I am not ashamed of it. But many are Croatian defenders who do not want their public name to be published, first of all why? Because it was a question, and the system when we talk about the Defense Associations was designed so that no one knows who was at the battlefield with whom. The only associations that came from the Homeland War about them are not a word of the Law on Defence because they do not solve the status part but the military's warpath, what is most valuable of the Croatian army's winners. That's not a word. Why? Because this way we have people scattered around associations from different, different units where we don't know who he was and who he was doing, so that's the system that suits the most, that's the system that fits the most. And that's the way it is. There are good things in there, but then there are contradictions, when we talk about reducing the age limit for retirement there we have a shift, because it's been rounding for a year, now it's shrinking anyway, and so does colleague Nadj, he tells you there's no connection to you being on the front line, but it was whether your unit was declared combative. Well, the combat squad had a cleaning lady, too. What are we talking about? So we're equating the ones that were on the first line with the one that wasn't on the first line. Where's that? Well, they kept records, if they weren't kept in '91, they were kept later. They were running. When Norac came to me for surveillance, we had a book of wounded people and a book of the dead, and so was who was in military care, that's what you know. Or we'll have whoever during SUBNOR where there will be three witnesses, who will say this one was on the Srijem front, we're writing a law that we'll work for SUBNOR, 45 years ago. And we all hated it, nobody wanted it. Doctor over the line, this over the line, everybody looked bad at these people, didn't look good at those people. Just in 92 years, I was in the Assembly, one of the first Veterans' Associations in Rijeka, that's what I said to my colleagues, so I said what are we doing to my new SUBNOR people, so we fought for such a state, so that we could be privileged? Not that we finally have democracy and that everyone has at least, that everyone has at least an equal chance, an equal chance. Unfortunately, here's what's the worst message, which after a quarter of a century we haven't taken care of the disabled yet, we haven't hired people who were on the battlefield, it's a message, it's a bad message.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39598	Thank you, thank you very much, Your Honor. You have one replica, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39599	Dear colleague Eric, I agree with you that all further discussions and all additional rights are stegmatized by Croatian defenders and a bad message is in the context of what you were saying. All I want is for you to answer me, do you know when ZOSI was formed, when he started working? As I recall somewhere in the second half of 2014. What governments are responsible for the management and establishment of the ZOSI system after that in 2015, 2016, '17, '18, '19, '20, '21.? So we can't talk about someone else's responsibility while you have both scissors and canvas within this government in the jurisdiction of your ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39600	So, ZOSI was founded at the end of the mandate of the government of Zoran Milanovic, he took over afterwards, and I talked a lot about the problems that were already in place for ZOSI with Nada Šikic, who was the Minister of Labour in Oreskovic's government, and she explained to me that these difficulties exist, but that it should work to improve the system, but that ZOSI cannot be escaped because it was made in agreement with the World Bank. Here, that's what short enough to respond to this replica without getting into some larger details and considerations.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39601	Thank you very much. You have no more replicas you can place. Let's move on, but before we begin with individual discussions on the violations of the Rules of Procedure, the distinguished representative Josip Djakic. I'm just warning you that you already have two warnings, and if you hurt the Rules of Procedure right now, I'm gonna have to take your word for it by the end of the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39602	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President HS. He's been injured. 238, the representative shall not speak about a subject which is not subject to discussion during the hearing. My colleague Eric spoke about the register of Croatian defenders which is not the subject of this law and I wanted to say that you did not follow his debate well and did not give him a warning. On the other hand, my colleague Eric, I watched your résumé, you've been drilling your chest so hard, and you didn't mention it in your résumé that you were a Croatian defender.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39603	Thank you very much. I give you the foundation of an article. Since you violated the Rules of Procedure, the first time, and then you misused it by using the Rules of Procedure Institute as a replica. And I have to explain to my colleague Fabianic, according to my assessment he did not hurt the Rules of Procedure, he may have just come out of the box a little bit, but not out of the topic because this topic is very much related to the topic we are discussing today. Let's move on, the next violation of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Eric Fabianic. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39604	... First, my resume can be found on the official pages of the Primorje-Gorski County, and I can also give you the OIB so you can see my defensive status. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39605	I give you my warning because you have injured the Rules of Procedure and you have not followed, and I have already issued a warning to the honourable representative Djakic, so there was no need for further interventions. Let's move on, uh, another distinguished representative, Stipan Sashlin. What article was injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39606	238 Sir speaks clearly of something he doesn't understand or deliberately deceives the public and all of us. [[/Intruder Voter: In what?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39607	Please stop, I have already issued a warning and colleagues to Fabianić and.../Speakers speak at the same time./... please give you a reminder No, but I'm just a little bit already. [[I'm right.]] What are you talking about? [[/Intruder Shaslin: He was talking about that the cleaning lady in the unit was not in the fighting sector. Apparently he's saying it from his angle.]] Please, I'm based on an article. In 239, I give you a warning, sit down and stop, sit down, please. .../Speakers speak at the same time./... Please, I'll tell you, you're now using a breach of the Rules of Procedure to replicate his initial exposure. Please. Let's move on. The last individual debate, a respected representative, Nikola Mažar, was reported. Here you go. ... I'm not on record. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I hurt the Rules of Procedure, I suppose? Okay, what article?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39608	The Honorable Vice President of HS, you have injured the Rules of Procedure because you have given your colleagues a warning, and you have not allowed him to present his thesis on the violation of the Rules of Procedure. So colleague Shashin never had the opportunity to use 30 seconds to say what the Rules of Procedure was hurt in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39609	I also give you a reminder based on an article. 239. because you should know that if I punish someone we call it such a pedagogical measure as I did in this case with my colleague Fabianic then there is no need to actually intervene further and that someone points to the violation of the Rules of Procedure of that representative because it is already sanctioned for the same. Here. Let's move on, distinguished representative Nikola Mazhar. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39610	Thank you very much, Vice President. The Honorable Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and the Honorable Ministers of Defence, State Secretary, Associates. Today, we are facing amendments and additions to the Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, and I am extremely pleased that the Croatian Defence Ministry has again drawn up satisfactory solutions, solutions that will complete the system of care for all people who participated and gave their pain in the Homeland War. Amendments to the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families correct the illogicalities, improve the processes and make legal solutions more meaningful, simpler, more complete than previous solutions. By continuing in this direction, by passing this law, we continue to create a system of concerns that we need and who wants and wants to address all the casualties of the Homeland War. By creating such a complementary system, a system which clearly distinguishes the aggressor and the victim, a system based on the fact that the Homeland War is in the very foundations of Croatian independence and sovereignty, a system which, even after the course of the 10 years, does not forget and does not want to forget any sacrifice of the day in the process of creating a state, a system that corrects injustice, we build a Croatian future on just foundations, on sound foundations. We had the opportunity to hear today that a total of 4.324 members of the family of the dead Croatian defenders or HRVI and volunteers from the Homeland War have been taken care of in the past term. We can, and we do not have to be satisfied, personally I am never satisfied and on this subject I always think that we must be much more effective because home, roof over head and constitutional law, but also care about defenders is also constitutional law. For this reason, it may be important to say that this figure was not so in 2016 when we took responsibility for the management of the Republic of Croatia. In the central office and personally, 400 families were taken care of annually, and now it is about 1,000. It is also in the Croatian Defence Ministry for more than 100% of the housing care of Croatian defenders. This was done in a way that thanks above all to the Government of the Republic of Croatia increased budgets and allocations for this possibility, but also to the amendments and the adoption of new laws, laws that, above all, gave Croatian defenders and members of their families 100 points through the Boting Regulation, but also included members of the HVO together with their members of the border family, and thus evened out Croatians and Croatians. In addition, we created the conditions for inter-resorship cooperation, which was adopted as a special chapter in the House Care Act in assisted areas, to restore the entire state property, primarily in areas of special state care and put it into office. So, with one synergy of the work of all state bodies, one transparent policy through the adoption of new laws, but also with one real quality and effective policy, we show that some things that are unfortunately long over the years, and perhaps even 10 years unresolved can be solved. For this reason, I also support these proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War who continue to speed up the process of housing, primarily through agreements between state bodies that will allow for even greater synergy of all state bodies in order to use housing units that exist on certain parts of the Republic of Croatia to be placed in the function of housing, and also by buying where it is not possible, or where it is not possible to build multi-domestic buildings if there are only individual cases to be solved because we need to be aware that although the law is one general act that we are talking about human fates here, that we are talking about families and that each family has its specific situation. Each family lives under specific circumstances and is not all in the same situation. And therefore, these very changes and additions will enable us to address these specific individual situations, and I think that it must be a man to all of us, one man, if he is single and deserves a roof over his head, then we must make it possible for him. For this reason, I once again support the amendments and additions to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39611	Thank you. You don't have a replica. This concludes individual debates, a set of violations of the Rules of Procedure, warnings, replicas, and we have 3 registered club representatives for now, excuse me, 3 registered club representatives who want to talk finally about the bill's proposal. The first is the club of representatives of HSS and HSU, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39612	Dear Vice President, esteemed ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. He will tell counterpart Celic that we are re-traumaticizing Croatian defenders, especially those who have a diagnosis of PTSD. God, I can confirm to you that we are mentally traumatizing with our indivisible and unargumented debates many times all of our citizens, not just the sick defenders of PTSD. So, rest assured, we've all been pissed off. That's why I'm going to be saying what I have objections to this law in this section. The law deletes the planned national psych trauma centre and writes only that they have the right to health services whose scope is determined by the national psychosocial and medical assistance programme for the defence population, which means we will never have a register of all PTSD patients, in particular we will not have public, publicly available. I don't know why it isn't, it's not for public use, but the people who do this should know it and we should have it available. The whole article, which highlights added palitative concern, has been added, since, of course, one part of the defender is already dying, and we are not yet the process of recognising the new ones. There is one interesting thing, but now it is proposed to coordinate the starting factors for determining the early retirement pension that are explicitly, which at the time of the adoption of the applicable law were more favourable than those under the then applicable Pension Act. So then in 2017 there were better conditions under the Law on Croatian Defence. In the meantime, in 2018, those who paid in the second pillar received an increase in pensions from the first pillar by 23% and is now more favourable to the Retirement Act. Look, this right is no one, in 2014, we introduced a category of insurance for long-term internship 60:41. Someone to whom a pension is supposed to be 4000 kuna he receives 3300 because he has 18% of the pension. Why not apply the same option to them so that they can choose a more favourable right because that category is introduced in 2014. The fee for unemployed defenders can also be paid to those who do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia. Doubtful, for us it will always be questionable decisions, questionable provisions of the law. The renewal of the procedure for members of the HVO fighting sector to which the disability has been reduced at the request of the users shall be determined without re-skilling. It's very disputable. A previous expert evaluation is hereby repealed and a new model of artisan is introduced. Let's stand here. In 2014, this ZOSIH was designed. Do you know why? Yes, it is true what counterpart Eric Fabianic said was taken from the World Bank. But why? Because at that point, we had 270,000 disability pensions among the pensioners, and we were ordered to tighten the criteria for going to disability pensions, regardless of how no one explained to the World Bank that this was accumulated, that these were the consequences of the war. 60,000 went into disability pensions by political decisions in 1999, my people, let's not transfer one government to another why you did this, why you did it. Everything has its reasons and everything has its continuity. No one will do anything ideal, neither will you do it in 2017, nor will you do it now, nor will we do it if someone else is able to do it ideally. Everything will be a slave with a mistake because a man does, produces effects with a mistake especially in laws because it cannot be seen the area of application and all how it will affect the individual. So I ask you to respect every opinion, including one that is positive and well-intentioned, but the opposite. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39613	Thank you. We're moving on. The next person to answer the final word is the Green-left bloc MPs' club. On behalf of the above, pardon the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns on behalf of whom the distinguished representative Željko Sačić will speak. Excuse me. He ran away from me looking a little too far.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39614	My colleagues here thank God 17:52 we have come to the end of this debate constructively in parts, dramatic and certainly exhausting and we are entering such a broken into an even greater battle now on the Law on Civil Victims of the Homeland War, which for me is great stress. I'm over 58 years old. In the '30s, I could chase 24 hours in the woods and mountains and not sleep. It's not working now. I don't know how I'm gonna make it to three or four hours. I'll try some stimuli. We came to the end of this debate and concluded that you missed 2017 predicting everything that could be of damage to the resolution of complete status. You've done a lot of good, but there's one small part left that you're not, and now it's frustrating because it makes an impression to the Croatian public that we Croatian defenders, unfortunately, are not going to say some harsh word, but that we're constantly looking for some additional rights of our own, which is not true. This is not true, but the reason for certain political goals is unfortunately, because it is not, it is not normal for me, it is not acceptable for me to see a growing number of Croatian defenders from year to year. It's real to me that people are sick and that they can become Croatian military disabled, that's real to me, that's what I'm expected because age carries its own. But if someone had waited 30 years since the passing, since the start of the Homeland War and now remembered that he could be a Croatian defender I don't know. And they are his commanders, who will establish it. It's a big problem, I'll leave it to you. It is crucial about this disease, around the Croatian military disabled, that we as a society have created a terrible problem, a terribly large cut when the so-called so-called "war" was made in 2000. Detudmanization, when Croatian heroes were forced into power, they became out of the need overnight, instead of being like any normal society of Israel, America, Russia, England of all countries of the world, to take advantage of these people, to educate them if they were not, to put them into the Yugoslav Foreign Ministry, to leave them in the MUP, to leave them in the Ministry of Defence, to educate them in the economy, to educate them in businesses would not first be so great crime and corruption because these people didn't steal. They couldn't steal, because if they were thieves, they wouldn't go and sacrifice their lives. That's number one. Number two, we'd be the civilized world that's most grateful, to whom we're the most grateful. Here it says, but we haven't turned to them an ugly story, not fair, that some of them had to even look for PTSD, and they might have had it, but he could still be cured, and we remember our Minister Fred Matic, who, thank God, cured his PTSD for 6 months at the office of Minister Josipovic, I would love it if he did, let's go see that way. Let's go try it, so you see that, so let's open the door and let Mr. Plenkovic see that the defender who puts himself in office, who is given the opportunity to keep working, he treats his psyche, right. I could only say on my own example that now I, too, see that I solve certain frustrations. Therefore, open the door for Croatian defenders to work. You hire them, in Civil Protection, the earthquake was, how few defenders there were, very few, no one organized them. how much when Croatia burns, nowhere, nothing. [[Sabina Voter: Thank you.]] How much when it takes I'm sorry, thank you very much. [[Sabina Voter: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39615	I see you're in awe, I'm sorry to interrupt, but time's up. Thank you, Your Honor, we move on. Now it's the Green-Left Block Representatives' Club. The final word on behalf of the above-mentioned Club will be taken by the distinguished representative Damir Bakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39616	Dear Madam Vice President, Honored Ministers, Honored colleagues and colleagues. Whatever anyone was saying today, from whatever angle, and whatever particular problem our motives were, was the same as our wish. And that is to help people both materially and caring for their mental and physical health and social support. And I think, Minister, that's the main message with which you can leave this debate today. What makes us different is the modality and mechanisms of these aids. As far as we're from the green-left block, and we clearly said that, we mean, we clearly said what we think, we are opposed, we are opposed to unnecessary benefits that no one needs, such as multiple housing within the same family or care for already taken care of or promises of new, undefined health rights. We are opposed to bypassing institutions and strengthening the discretionary rights of ministers and the ministry. We oppose the creation and institutionalization of specific paths and mechanisms to address the problem of defenders, if these same problems exist in society as a whole, and that is why, instead of improving the health system and social care system, we are creating solutions that ultimately do not reach those who need the most, and the entire defence population is being exposed to growing animosity. That's why we're against it. We also oppose the degradation of valuable projects aimed at psycho-physical rehabilitation and social reintegration of defenders, such as defense social and working cooperatives. These are our attitudes, these are our messages. And as far as the Ministry itself is concerned, we are absolutely opposed to the provisions that this Ministry exempts from other laws. It is also unacceptable to propose that this ministry be lifted from its obligation to present an annual report to the Parliament on the application of the Defence Act. Not only should this provision remain in the Law, but moreover, I call on the Ministry to implement and deliver to the Assembly the reports it owes for 2018, 2019 and 2020 as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39617	Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on. The next club that will speak in the final word is the HDZ Representatives' Club on behalf of the Club will speak to the distinguished representative Marijana Balic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39618	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Deputy Prime Minister and Croatian Defence Minister with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. Let me, after today's almost all-day debate on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Croatian defenders of the Homeland War and members of their families, refer to what is most important in the proposed Law, since today we have had the opportunity to hear a lot of what is true, but also what is not. The proposed changes and additions do not open again the possibility of obtaining the status of Croatian defender and Croatian military disabled. Instead, it seeks to speed up a process that has proved itself to be long-term in practice, since many defenders who have applied for the status of a Croatian wartime wartime invalid unfortunately did not experience the completion of the procedure. When we talk about the necessity of speeding up the process, the achievement of the status of the Croatian military disabled is important to note that this does not necessarily mean the unfounded achievement of this status, but exclusively the elimination of normative and organisational difficulties affecting the duration of the procedure significantly beyond the legal deadlines. It should be pointed out that despite the adoption of the Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families just over 3 years ago, the deadline for obtaining the status of Croatian defender and Croatian military disabled. There was no breakdown of the system as it was announced in part of the public space. And also, this is not about new Croatian defenders or Croatian wartime wartime disabled people, but about people who have not regulated their status before because of normative arrangements or different personal reasons. Unfortunately, those who claimed to have broken the system, and as Minister Bear claimed then, there was no breakdown. Not even more significant budget burden. Neither are there new Croatian defenders, but some of them have finally been given the opportunity to regulate their status that they deserve by their participation in the Homeland War. So the fact that someone hasn't regulated their rights before doesn't mean that they shouldn't be realized now that they've created opportunities for it. But, of course, provided that the request is justified and that there is all the necessary evidence or medical documentation to prove the continuity of the treatment. Therefore, proper documentation will continue to be required in the process of regulating the status of Croatian military disabled and the medical team will assess whether a particular disease is in a causal and consequential relationship with participation in the Homeland War. Only it won't wait a few years for the end of the procedure whether the solution is positive or negative. Today, we're listening again to an opposition that is trying to strike unfavorably. But we have heard, of course, both the Deputy Prime Minister and the Croatian Defence Minister who says why and what these amendments to the bill are doing today. And I believe that he will repeat us again in his final presentation. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I respect all of you but I trust him, and I believe that you should, too, all of you fellow MPs who were directly involved in the Homeland War, because he is trusted by Croatian defenders who know how he fought and fought for their rights. And finally, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, they are neither privileges nor privileges as some like to say, but the rights they deserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39619	Thank you, dear representative Balic. And the last application for participation in the debate when we talk about the closing word on behalf of the club of MPs is the distinguished representative Dalia Oreshkovic, who will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and Glass. There you are, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39620	Thank you, President. I will highlight those basic and main remarks that we cited in the opening statement on behalf of the Club. The first is that these amendments and additions to the Law reduce the scope of the data entered in the Defence Register, i.e. the formal name is the Homeland War Defence Record. And that, in fact, for all future examinations, will remain hidden what may need to be explored today and tomorrow. We believe that the reduction in the extent of the data that has been recorded so far in this record is one dangerous and worrying step backwards and we should not allow it in any way. The second observation refers to this amendment that the skills previously in the jurisdiction of the Institute are transferred to the three-member committees in the first instance, i.e. five-member commissions in the second instance, and one-and-a-half, by decision, directly appointed by the Minister. With these commissions operating under a regulation that is defined, defined and tailored by a minister. Such a situation gives the minister great power and great authority. The ability to control it is getting smaller and the transparency is almost gone and this actually opens up a space for new abuses and new suspicions, and it does not contribute to the defenders themselves, regardless of what the proposed changes allegedly wanted to achieve a legitimate goal, which is that defenders in a faster process manage to prove their disability and thus achieve their rights. Again, there is inequality for different categories of our people. It would be much more appropriate for this long-term problem to be resolved in a way that the deadline is fixed and that jurisdiction should be left where it has been so far. But one thought is especially true, given that we spend the whole day discussing one law and many attitudes, different thinking, and that thought is that today we already have children born after the war and that wars are not actually remembered at all by those days and sufferings. During that whole period, therefore, in those 25, 30 years, we still haven't resolved the status of those who defended the country. And it's embarrassing for all of our brave and honest defenders, and today veterans that there is even one of them left who has not achieved his rights not because he didn't want to, but because this state in 25 years was not able to lay down the rules properly. This is where we, as a state, have disgraced everyone together. This is enough to support our rule of law, but also the quality of the laws adopted in the Croatian Parliament. Obviously, there's no quality background. Obviously, there is no legal knowledge, and especially nomotechnics. And the second notion that is problematic and where we are as a state is that negative emotions arise in public regarding the concept of defenders and because of those who have repeatedly charged their patriotism, because of those who have called for the status of defenders and what does not belong to them. Those who have embarked on corrupt and other affairs by convulsing wealth and property that very often has no legal justification and foothold, and the rule of law, the institutions of this state, the law enforcement authorities were unable to establish and prove anything. The identification and equalization of these defenders and others we talked about today and we should have cared better about days ago has led not only one part of the defence population, but one part of the public of this state and this approach to defence matter justifiably shame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39621	Thank you, Your Honor. However, this wasn't the last debate, in the meantime, a prominent representative of Miro Bulj reported. So he'll be speaking finally on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club. Here's your esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39622	Thank you very much. Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, here after this long debate on the proposed amendments to the Law on Croatian Defence, I hope that we have all come to the conclusion that 30 years since the start of the Homeland War, 25 since the Homeland War that we have not yet solved the problem of those whom we had to, and these are Croatian defenders who are minimally, all Croatian defenders, regardless of which units or any other special forces, and particularly those who were in combat troops, whether the MUP, whether the HOS, whether the Croatian Army or any other special forces. And I hope once again that this debate, which was also constructive perhaps at some point, and the painful must produce something that is feasible for Croatian defenders, those who are responsible for having Croatia, hopefully, we have free Croatia, I hope that in the future about these problems i.e. The people that will solve their problems so that Croatian defenders, who and now when it is a difficult situation, are mentioned earlier by fellow Sacic when they are flooded and when others are threatened, are those who are the first and the earthquakes and the fires, they are those who are among the first and on humanitarian aid issues, and these activities themselves and truly Croatian defenders are still the potential and the triba motivate them to be socialised in society, should work on it and hope that all of our joint wishes together with the ministry of all of us Assembly representatives, the debate that will come up with the best solution for Croatian defenders and the effort of course that invests and means the minister himself, the ministry to be in fact who will ultimately solve this problem, means all together. And that is my basic message, the main message is that Croatian defenders deserve what the legal framework gives them to implement. If something cannot be implemented within the law.../incomprehensible/... situation, even more eyes towards Croatian defenders negatively resisting, therefore I hope that the law and these amendments will be essentially the last changes that will be of this kind and will be resolved by any Croatian defender who participated in combat operations during the Homeland War. We need to think about future generations, we need to think about our children, we need to think about the difficult situation in the Republic of Croatia where the state is due to poor policies, not the guilt of Croatian defenders. The Croatian defenders are the pillar and the foundation of the Croatian state, that we must also think about the future, and of course the foundation of the Croatian state, and we want to repeat that is the truth about the Homeland War, that the Croatian soldier, the truth about the Croatian soldier, the role in the Homeland War, and that the triba of these people is essentially the Croatian defenders to stick to them, of course, and everything that is negative and what is not good to remove. So once again this after this debate, I hope that by the second reading, we will all be able to harness this force and force more and more and we will be able to solve this problem. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39623	Thank you, Your Honor, and after this ten-hour debate, we will be approached by the Vice-President of the Croatian Government and Croatian Defence Minister Mr. Tomo Medved. Here you go, final.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39624	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank all of you for your contribution to this debate, although the proposal for amending and supplementing the law has made it clear that there is neither a new obligation nor a new right to enter here nor a new law, that this law is, or to amend and supplement the law of a technical nature which is aimed at intensifying and creating additional assumptions full of consumption or the achievement of the law of the prescribed rights, and that is also binding on us in Article 213 of the law of 2017 which we have adopted in which it clearly states that the Croatian Ministry of Defence will carry out an assessment of the effects as well as of all the achievements that the law has foreseen and that is exactly what we are doing and, in this particular, in this respect of the substantive and thorough analysis, we have made this amendment and the addition of the law, in light of which are the positions which are the measures and where these actions are to slow down the whole process so that Croatian defenders can fully enforce the law. And there it is said as a responsible minister, so I could, and the government could ignore that fact and leave it as it is, aware of the circumstances that the law does not go into consumption in the light of which it should go into consumption, but as responsible officials, as responsible government, as in other resolutions, we see difficulties in applying, in implementing for this reason we went with this proposal to amend and supplement this law. What apriority has been rejected many times today is the politicization, politics and the adoption of laws for political purposes, I absolutely reject such a thought because I stress that this amendment and the supplement is conceived so that it intervenes in the original content of the law and that there is a prerequisite for the full extent of the law to be consummated. What I want to point out once again, although there has been a lot of talk about today, achievements. I will visit you only today there have been many speeches related to employment and related to the relationship with Croatian defenders in that segment, so by taking office we had five years ago 85,000 Croatian defenders who had no income, who were unemployed, who had no possibility of consumption or guaranteed minimum fees, which were then taken away in the ministry and compensation for the unemployed Croatian defenders, that we had returned the fee for the unemployed to the Croatian Defence Ministry's portfolio, that we had since now reduced that figure by 12,285 so that these people are employed today. It's our government's policy and it's a relationship to Croatian defenders. Since it has often been mentioned today for 30 years, 30 years has been since the start of the Homeland War, but I am saddened by the fact that I haven't heard it here in 2006. Which wasn't so recent, so 2006. The law makes it impossible to obtain HRVI status based on disease, I will repeat in 2006, that it is 2009. the possibility of regulating the status of the Croatian defender has been stopped. And everyone who hasn't noticed that detail and today they're asking how it's possible that 30 years after this is solved here is the answer, so in 2006, one process has been stopped, the second process until the entry into force of 2017. And that's why today and all these years since the entry into force of this law we have so intensely solved all these accumulated issues and problems. Both with this goal and on the trail of our basic vision, missions and goals to enable Croatian defenders to consume all their laws of prescribed rights, so we have launched this procedure. In the second point of today's debate, the debate on the civilian victims of the Homeland War will take place, and we will come to this extent, these councils that will also play the role of artificialising these civilian victims of the Homeland War and part of the explanation of the separation of these councils and of the ZOSI lies in that fact. I would certainly like to emphasise the fact of full cooperation with the Homeland War Associations. On the monthly analysis, the partnership relationship of finding a solution and all that is in the proposal to amend and supplement the law is based precisely on full partnership, understanding, understanding of the situation on the ground and the proposals for concrete measures. I will repeat, so we as Government could follow ineffectiveness, stall a long number of years of waiting for status resolution, the responsible Government approach in a way that suggests changes where we see these changes are necessary, that this way we will disburse this ZOSI which has a large number of other requirements for the implementation of skills, thus helping all these other users, i.e. the searchers of this programme, or this process of implementing the ZOSI. When it comes to the election of councils, the appointment of councils, I ask if we have really read the law and what is changing in relation to the existing system of council formation? Has anyone seen or recognised any form of improvisation or uncertainty regarding the election of councils anywhere and who says that existing council members will not be part of the council at the Ministry of Croatian Defence who will be made public and publicly published precisely in order to maintain the form of transparency that we have had in our work so far. I thank you once again for the constructive debate and I repeat, in no way is the initiative to amend this law related to any elections, to any form of politicisation or politics but only to the aim of establishing a system that will guarantee the full application of the prescribed legal measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39625	Thank you. Let's go to the replicas. The first in line is Commissioner Dalia Oreskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39626	Thank you, President. So, esteemed ministers, when two defenders under a completely different procedure and by different criteria try to achieve their rights, it says enough about the lack of fundamental legal certainty in Croatia and this creates a suspicion that the legitimate goal is trying to achieve an illegal means. In itself, it would not have taken this much into account for you and would not have been so skeptical that, at the same time in the amendments to this Act, you did not provide for a reduction in the scope of the data currently mentioned in the Defence Register. I see absolutely no reason or cause for the abolition of the data contained in this register, and they are very important, not only for Croatia's present but also for Croatia's future. Why?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39627	Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39628	Your Honor, Madam Representative, I do not understand with great understanding where you have recognized and seen that the volume of official content is reduced, the data in the official record? Therefore, the official record is defined in the Law, it is made up of the Ministry of Croatian Defence and it has in its contents absolutely all the necessary indicators and data necessary to decide all the bodies of the state administration. Here I would like to highlight another detail that our Government has launched in our term of office, which is the process of digitising archive material, where we have digitised millions of documents from the Homeland War so far and they will be available in a very short time to all served bodies in digital form, unlike all those previous activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39629	Thank you very much, next rapport, esteemed representative of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39630	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. I agree with you that there are no new rights, but by opening new opportunities, there are increases in the level of rights that other citizens do not have. In particular, recalculation according to the Retirement Act that is more favourable. Okay, in another way of art, so you have, we've turned around, so we've reduced the criteria to make it easier to increase the level of law. They're not new rights, so I agree with you in 2009, which is blocked, who blocked, in 2009, Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor reduced everyone above 3.5 thousand kunas by law adopted here 10% of pensions, is never the devil one, and I'm just asking you the last one. Don't risk a dispute with the World Bank over what her project... So I'm just warning you, I have no intention of any defense rights. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39631	Thank you. Here's your reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39632	First of all, when we talk about the status of the ZOS, this is where the Croatian defence team from the ZOS stands out. The ZOS as one who is just as such to the World Bank remains. On the condition that part of the users is singled out, the normal and flow activity of implementing the art of the entire population and this is the response to the assistance, i.e. the consideration and sensitivity of the defence population to the entire population. It will not wait for 5 years, it will have the opportunity to resolve in the legal deadline, so this is our contribution to the functionality of the ZOS, which is first and second, when I mentioned in 2009, I mentioned legal restrictions to obtain the status of Croatian defenders and therefore today, 30 years later, we have to resolve the status because it was not possible before, because the law was limited.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39633	Thank you very much. The next replica, the esteemed representative of Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39634	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, Your Honor. We have again put all the rights of Croatian defenders in the law in 2017. And it should be said that that's what we promised the Croatian defenders, that we did it. Today, things we have seen over time that do not work the way we and the Croatian defenders would like, which is also in their interest and in our interest to change what everyone who is responsible does. What I still want to highlight, and what my colleague Sucic mentioned here today. Work. Sacic, I'm sorry. You are also working on the fact that our children are raised in spirit that they know about the foundations of our statehood, and that you have proved to help with the financial you gave to the Museum of Homeland War, 500 thousand kuna, and the Government of Mr Milanović could not give 50 thousand kuna for the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39635	Thank you very much. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39636	Thank you very much, distinguished representative Jelkovac. So, we have promised and we are doing this, we have promised to bring a single legal framework, a single law on Croatian defenders from all the resistors, back to the unique jurisdiction of the Croatian Defence Ministry, all measures and all programmes. In this act today, both these amendments and the additions of the Law, given that we have recognized a stalemate in certain processes, as responsible officials we react, change the Law, precisely creating a basic assumption that the Law would be in full application in an acceptable time. It is also important to highlight this detail, therefore, of the efforts made by the Croatian Defence Ministry in terms of youth education. The Memorial center of the Homeland War Vukovar at an annual level of over 40,000 students, we expanded to Knin, Pakrac, Okuana, Karlovac and in a very short time we will reach Dubrovnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39637	Thank you, thank you very much. Next replica, distinguished representative Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39638	Finally. Should it convince anyone today that all of them, and we are counting ourselves, who, at the cost of their own lives, defended Croatia's freedom, did not do so because of some ground-handling interests or privileges, but from the highest ideals, the only privileges were death and uncertainty on the battlefield. It's a quote from a letter written by Croatian generals in 2020, signed, and for which they were retired. Thank you, Mr. Minister, to you, to our Croatian government, to all of us who will vote this law, which is another in a series of attempts to restore dignity to Croatian defenders, the Croatian Homeland War that created this country, because this is the only foundation on which we can build unity and your efforts in all this is recognizable. And I believe that everyone here, all the clubs, regardless of the tone of the debate, will support these amendments and supplement the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39639	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39640	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Of course, any debate is good if it is aimed at the goal, that is to contribute to the quality of the content it will produce. Unfortunately, I will repeat, we could hear today certain politics and demagogue certain thesis, and I believe that, finally and in the adoption of amendments and the addition of the law, we will be more concentrated, that we will read it a little more thoroughly and be more focused on the content of the law. And the argument that is given in the application of the law clearly describes each article and, among other things, that article where there was some duplication of the right to housing and I want to make it very clear to you that this is about a dozen children who have lost both parents.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39641	Thank you very much. And the last replica of the esteemed representative, Uncle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39642	Thank you, Vice President. Ministers in your presentation stressed that you have achieved a good cooperation with defense associations. I think it is extremely important to achieve a good dialogue, a conversation, cooperation with defense associations not only of the victims but also of the organizations that bear the name of the war forces. Namely, after the Homeland War, many units were shut down and the only contact with the defenders involved in the defense in these units was through associations, their war route, flags, and everything else. So I think it's very important and I congratulate you on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39643	Thank you very much. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39644	Thank you, Reverend Strick, and I congratulate you on your proud "Rode" Special Unit tomorrow and everything you've done in the Homeland War. And thank you for the partnership you provide as an association in cooperation with the Croatian Defence Ministry. I'm sure that's how we'll continue in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39645	Thank you, Your Honor. This is what we've exhausted all the replicas of your final exposure. Thank you very much. This concludes the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. And now we move on to the second item of the agenda, which is - Proposed law on civilian victims from the Homeland War, first reading, P.Z. No. 92. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on War Veterans, the Committee on Health and Social Policy and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Croatia's Deputy Prime Minister and Defence Minister Mr. Tomo Bear again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39648	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Madam Representatives and Representatives. In order to round up the normative segment of solving the problem of the defence-suffering population and, as taught by the Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families and the Law on Persons Missing in the Homeland War, we have for the first time in the Republic of Croatia left a legal framework for the civilian victims of the Homeland War. Since the beginning of last term, we have had a partnership with the Associations of Homeland War, both Croatian defenders and civilian victims of the Homeland War. As with the drafting of previous laws, we have also established strong quality communication and cooperation with associations representing civilian victims, i.e. the community of civil victims of the Homeland War, and I thank them for their cooperation and support. A brief reminder of the current legal solution for civilian executioners. The rights of civilian victims of the Homeland War are currently regulated by the Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities of War, which was adopted in 1992 and since then has been changed 12 times and most of it in a way that the rights have been reduced. According to the Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities of War, 1884 civil disabled from the Homeland War and 145 members of the families of the dead civilians in the Homeland War. The Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities of War and Civil Disabilities of World War II, Peacetime Military Disabilities and Civil Disabilities of the Homeland War as well as members of their families are regulated. So the current legal solution regulates the rights of different groups of victims of different age structures, different needs from different time periods. Despite numerous amendments to this regulation, not all civilian victims of the Homeland War are still covered, and rights are not tailored to the needs of this population. And so we have a situation that, even after 25 years of the end of the Homeland War, we don't have a proper legal framework for civilian casualties from the Homeland War. After so many years of waiting for justice, it is our government that will finally enable the victims and members of their families to regulate their status. What does this bill bring? The Civil Victims Act of the Homeland War will allow for the status and rights of those civilian victims of the Homeland War who could not do so under the current law and introduce new rights, or the existing rights, to further adapt to the needs of users. It will define who is the civilian victim of the Homeland War. In practice, it has been shown that there are cases of victims who, for formal reasons, cannot achieve adequate status or rights, although all circumstances suggest that there is a civilian victim from the Homeland War. In addition to the categories covered so far, civilian victims will be covered by the explosion of mine explosives or the use of firearms from 17 August 90 to 30 June 1996. Outside of military operations, but in connection with the circumstances of the Homeland War. The members of the family of missing civilians in the Homeland War will be allowed to exercise rights under this Act before the missing person is declared dead. Thus far, members of the family of missing civilians have been able to achieve the right only after making a decision to declare the missing person dead. The deadline for recognition of the status of civilian disabled persons from the Homeland War will be opened on the basis of disease and that period is closed in 2003, which is open to the deadline of the Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. The Civil Victims' Registration will be established. Now there's about 2,000 of them in the records. The registration will be run by the Croatian Defence Ministry. The registration won't be made publicly available. It will contain the basic information on the victim to be prescribed by the Regulation. The conditions for exercising the right to a family disability will be reduced. The peace, the working relationship, the independent activity will no longer be an obstacle. So far, members of the family of civilians killed in the Homeland War have not been able to exercise the right to a family disability if they are in a working relationship, if they are receiving a pension or are engaged in an independent activity which should not be an obstacle to the right to a family disability because it is not about social rights, but rather about a kind of compensation for the death in the Homeland War. Lowering the age limit for exercising the right to a family disability. The socio-economic situation of users will be improved by introducing new measures. Money compensation for civilian victims from the Homeland War instead of supplies that were abolished in 2013. Under similar conditions as the former supply of a thousand and 97 kuna if there are no other revenues. One-time cash aid up to 3 thousand 326 kuna depending on the situation by the basis of which it is sought. A special supplement will be introduced, a higher amount for minors at the time of the death of a thousand 912 kuna. The fee for personal car adjustment for disabled persons from 1st to 4th group today during the discussions on amendments and additions to the Law on Croatian defenders we touched on these topics. They would be able to use the service of a veteran centre whose establishment is under way. Primary legal aid would be provided primarily by the Croatian Defence Ministry's regional units. Psychological assistance would be organised at local or county level in the premises of the district unit of the ministry and centres for psychosocial assistance and mobile via organised visits to homes and families. It would increase the basis for the exercise of rights, personal disability, care allowance and assistance of another person, orthopedic supplement, family disability. Since 2001, it is 100% of the budget base, i.e. 3 thousand 326 kuna. Since then, this base has not grown and has not followed the needs of the victim. The increase to 115% of the budget base, i.e. 3 thousand 824 kunas, is the same as under the Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. Civil persons with disabilities from the Homeland War as a basic right could use a personal disability ranging from 114 to 3000 824 kuna depending on the status and percentage of disability of the victim and the degree of damage to the organism. Up to 2,000 and 500 new users of the status rights of disabled people and family members are estimated. Who is exercising the rights of the proposed law? The right can be exercised by citizens of the Republic of Croatia but also by foreign citizens, provided that they had their residence in the Republic of Croatia at the time of their death. The necessary documentation will be obtained from the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia or through the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law contains obstacles to the exercise of the right, i.e. who cannot exercise the right under the Law. The rights cannot be exercised by the members of the aides or associates of the enemy military and paramilitary forces involved in the armed aggression against the Republic of Croatia. The same will be determined by official duty from all available records of the competent authorities through the Croatian Defence Ministry. Persons who, according to the criminal record kept by the state administration authority, are competent to carry out a conviction convicted by a judicial tribunal for criminal offences against the Republic of Croatia. Persons who, according to the criminal record kept by the state administration, are charged with justice by a court of law for crimes against humanity and human dignity. The rights set out in this law cannot even be exercised by persons who themselves have been injured in order to avoid a military obligation. The envisaged procedure for the exercise of rights shall be submitted to the administrative body of the county or the City of Zagreb competent according to the place of residence. Evidence. Determining obstacles for associates and members of enemy units under official duty from all available records of competent authorities through the Ministry of Croatian Defence. The wound or injury occurred under the circumstances of the Homeland War, documentation issued by the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia, confirmation of the causes and circumstances under which the case occurred issued by the competent police authority and other competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia. Medical documentation on the treatment immediately after the wound or injury, and no later than 30 September 96, except in case of loss of leftover mines and other evidence prescribed by the Regulation. In connection with the circumstances of the disease resulting from the Homeland War, medical records resulting from a time of abuse or detention from captivity or from a period of 30 days after abuse or discharge from captivity, and exclusively for psychiatric illness medical records originating 2 years after abuse or release from captivity as well as other evidence prescribed by the Regulation. For the exercise of status and rights and for the death or death of civilians, a confirmation of the cause and circumstances under which the case occurred issued by the competent police authority and other competent authorities or a solution of the municipal court to declare the missing person to be deceased. Medical documentation on the treatment or cause of death of the person from whom the right is exercised if the conditions of injury and other evidence prescribed by the Regulation are visible. The principle of collecting evidence under official duty in order to make it easier for the parties to carry out the status and right of all documents that can be obtained from the records of the competent authorities will be obtained by official means. Treatments in cases where there is no documentation of the death or treatment of the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Defence Ministry will request documentation through diplomatic means through the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs. Witching. The experting of damage to the body for the exercise of status and rights under this Act shall be carried out by the medical committee to be established under the Croatian Defence Ministry. It is the same commission that will be trained in the process of exercising the rights of the Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. The methodology of work and the method of appointment of medical committees will be governed by the Croatian Defence Ministry Regulation. Translation of users by official duty. Civilian victims of the Homeland War who are status and the right to a personal disability. An allowance for the care and assistance of another person. An orthopaedic supplement, an aid supplement in the house and a family disability achieved under the Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities of War, so far the law under official duty will determine a new amount under this Act. The adoption procedure was conducted on the law for public consultation from 14 October to 14 November 2020. 89 suggestions and comments have arrived. The public hearing accepted the proposal to include in the Law the right to compensation for car adjustment costs owned by civilian victims from group 1 to 4. Right to psychosocial aid and primary legal aid. Furthermore, a proposal for an obstacle to the exercise of the right under this Law has been accepted as a final judgment for crimes against humanity and human dignity. The resources necessary for the implementation of this Act. The funds for the implementation of this Act are secured in the state budget, and according to the 2021 projections, 30 million kuna is secured depending on the moment of entry into force of the law. For 2022. 40 million and 2023. 60 million kuna. And for the end. In order to correct the long-standing inadequate approach towards the civilian victims of the Homeland War and end up mentioning the process of comprehensive quality regulation of the rights of all victims of the Homeland War, we propose to pass a single law that will regulate the rights of civilian victims of the Homeland War. The legal certainty that we have provided to Croatian defenders will also be given to civilian victims because it is our debt, it is a debt of the state to innocent victims of the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39649	Thank you very much. Before we go, let's go to the replicas, I'm sorry. The first is the distinguished representative of Stipe Mlinarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39650	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Your Honor. On the Defence Committee that was in the first month, you sent your secretary of state, my first question that you listed now is Article 5 where you listed who can't achieve these rights, my first question to him was whether the state of Croatia has a list of aggressors, assistants and all others who fought against the Republic of Croatia. He decidedly said he didn't have any. How are you going to prevent people who showed up in Vukovar, civilians, women who came out of the basement from having footage on you Tube of Belgrade TV where they named six defenders and today they're missing? If they were civilian war victims for you, they didn't carry a rifle, and they did more evil than some soldiers did.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39651	Thank you very much. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39652	Thank you very much. It's a clear question, Article 5, I believe it's clear. In no legal act, at least as far as I could see, it's not quite as distinct as who can't consume the rights. I believe there's been a misunderstanding with the Secretary of State on the Committee. In preparation for the adoption of this Act, and we announced it in 2017. We have begun to prepare the adoption of this Law, and we have started administrative preparations for the creation of basic preconditions for the full application of the Law. Among other things, all the police administrations, the Croatian Ministry of Defence at our request, provided a description of the circumstances of all deaths during the Homeland War in their county. So, a description of the circumstances with the official record of the scene. Which means we do.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39653	Thank you. I'm sorry, you might have time through some other replica. Here you are, the next esteemed representative of the Striker.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39654	Thank you. Minister, I welcome the adoption of this law. I also believe that civilian victims have the right to one of their complete, whole law, also related to Article 5. For the first time, I was elected to the Croatian Parliament in 2015 and I have never encountered a legislative proposal that would speak so decadently who did not have the right to be a user, consumer of a specific legal proposal or solution. So that's never happened before. Otherwise, they always list who is right, which is why, in what way, in which time period, through which, who, etc. This is the first time in such a decaded way to emphasize who has no right, most likely for reasons to prevent any abuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39655	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39656	So, I'll pick up where I started with the explanation. After the police administrations provided records of all deaths, of all the deaths, of all the circumstances of death in the area of their jurisdiction of the Police Administration, the Memorial Center of the Homeland War has provided us with confirmation of our request for participation in evidence, or evidence in connection with possible request for justice. The Homeland War Memorial centre has the structures and list of persons who participated in the aggression against the Republic of Croatia. All our services have also officially provided the Ministry of Croatian Defence with confirmation on our requests in a specific case, in solving a specific case, to submit a copy and confirmation of possible obstacles to this particular person.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39657	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Dear Representative Mlinarić, what has the Rules of Procedure been injured in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39658	In 238, I just got a warning, I know I'm going to get one, but I have to react, because this play, that this is just written for that and that for the first time, I think it's really ugly for me to listen to. Minister, Madam Representative Jeckov, who is sitting right behind me now is publicly on TV, national television 31. The first year she said it was the Law for people who were in the camps of Serbian nationality. There she is, so ask her. Then you will see for whom this Law is written and to whom it will be applied.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39659	You're absolutely right, you've hurt Article 238, and on the basis of Article 239, I give you a warning. And don't do that again. Let's move on. Next replica, distinguished representative Andreja Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39660	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, in Article 9(1), it is defined that civilian victims will also be those who suffer from the explosion of mine-explosive assets left behind after the end of the war operations. So, even after 1996. Now, when we recently discussed the Mine Action Plan, we had a Report for 2019 there, according to the Plan, that we should free Croatia from mines to 2026, but already on the Committee of Proposers said that due to limited capacity, people etc. We won't have a mine action plan until 2026. So, is this law going to be until further notice, so whoever gets hurt for 20 years, or are you going to define some other changes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39661	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39662	I apologize if I may not have heard correctly, but I think you're talking about another segment, which is, that's the Law on the Croatian Mine Action Centre, or the victims of demining.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39663	Please, colleagues, Maric. Don't fall off the bench. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39664	I'm sorry, I can't hear you. I didn't really hear you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39665	Then do it again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39666	So I refer to this Act, Article 9 paragraph 1c, where the victims are also those who suffer from mine-explosive means after the end of the war operations, means this time. Now, I don't know if you've heard the other part, so since we're going to be able to do it by 2026, we're not going to be able to do it, whether this article defines it until further notice, means for the next 20 years if someone gets killed by mines or how you imagined it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39667	Did you two just make a deal? Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39668	No, we're talking about those victims who were killed by mine-explosive funds shortly after the Homeland War. The victims who are now and who are now suffering are covered by another legal framework.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39669	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39670	And these, too, I apologize. Excuse me. So, yes. My apologies. I can't know all the interpretations either. That's why I have the secretary-in-chief. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39671	Thank you, Minister. Let's move on. The next replica is the esteemed representative Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39672	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister, surely one of the significant advances provided for in this law is, above all, equalising the basis for civil victims of war, which has not been the case so far. Given the situation of reopening the possibility of applying for civil invalidity war status based on a disease, I wonder if you might have a projection of how many such new requirements might be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39673	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39674	Thank you very much, ma'am. So I said I expect in all our projections about two and a half thousand new users.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39675	Thank you. Next replica, the esteemed representative of Ante Deur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39676	Honorable Vice President, Honorable Vice President, Minister. We see, first of all, that this law is in partnership with civil society, that it was a top priority. For years you have also met as minister of Croatian defenders and as president of the association how much pain, desire, through all these years spent by mothers whose children in the Homeland War were killed by aggressors. In point... You have put on who is the aggressor as well as in the Law on Croatian Defence. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In point 5, you put the exact principles that should be made. I believe that my colleague Mlinarić probably saw the law that Fred Matic put in at the time, so maybe he got a little confused there. I believe this law will be in all the elements of the state and the body to protect those who have indeed suffered from the aggressor soldiers and any aide who have been there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39677	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39678	Thank you very much, Reverend Deur. I believe that all MPs and MPs received a letter in their mailbox in front of the Alliance of Associations, and signed by Mrs Ivana Marinović, in which she asked and invited all parliamentary representatives and representatives. It gives its consideration and seeks support for the adoption of this Law on Civil Victims of the Homeland War, in front of the Association of Croatian Civil Victims of the Homeland War, and this is an indicator to which we have worked in partnership and with all associations for a very long time creating basic assumptions for its application, analysing all the circumstances and all the details to be prepared to propose this law to the Croatian Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39679	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative Šimičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39680	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, here, if I may be free on behalf of those who know the civilian victims of the Homeland War on their behalf, and on behalf of all other civilian victims of the Homeland War, thank you and your service for finally making a united law after 25 years. I'd like to say here that it actually matters whether the law is good or not. So, if we've waited 25 years, it's really time to correct the injustice against the civilian victims of the Homeland War, and that's what's worth it here. Article 5, that is, Articles 9 and 9 to 6 are, in fact, technical things that are defined as well as who can. But Article 5 is clear enough to know exactly who can exercise rights. And I don't believe we can make a cardinal mistake, so give the Chetniks and their helpers any right.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39681	Comrade Simičević, please watch your time. You've exceeded ten seconds. Here's the Minister's reply to the replica. No, no. Minister, come back. You've got plenty more. You have a reply to the replica. I only warned my colleague Šimičević to watch his time, and you have a reply to the replica. Here's his, if you've heard it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39682	Excuse me. Thank you very much for your support and understanding. It is clear that you have read the entire content of the law and have seen to what extent the effort has been made to resolve this very important issue with this law 25 years after the Homeland War. Here perhaps one of the groups of users is particularly sensitive and I will repeat, so so far, the condition for those looking for their loved ones, for our missing, for the consumption of rights, was to declare a loved one dead, leaving a deep trail and mainly of which families were not willing and did not want to run it. And so in this respect for 1,000, about 1,000 of these families is the strongest message of understanding and understanding of the situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39683	Thank you. Be careful on time. Let's move on to the replicas. Dear Representative Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39684	Dear Mr. Minister, here we are already tired, and believe me, you will remain here until two, three hours. I'm asking you a question about what you said that your projection is that this law applies to 2500 people. Well, I'll tell you, dear Mr. Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, that law, and my colleague Jeckov will confirm that it refers to at least 5.155 dead, dead, missing civilians in the occupied area and 2,700 wounded and such other civilians in the occupied area. There are already 8,000 of them, and in Croatian on this free part I will do it later. So tell me, is that information familiar?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39685	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39686	Thank you, well-respected representative Sačić, I am convinced that, as in 2017, we have made our evaluations clear and have maintained ourselves in very small differences after the full implementation of the law that after 2-3 years we will have the opportunity to discuss here again, and thank you for this new knowledge. Our projection, and we have been doing this law since 2017 in close cooperation with the Union of Civil War Victims Associations, hundreds of meetings and all possible analyses in cooperation with all counties, our projection of new users is around 2,500. Anyway, thank you for seeing you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39687	Thank you, let's move on. The next replica, the esteemed Representative Bulj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39688	Thank you very much. Minister, Article 2 of this Law makes it clear that citizens of the Republic of Croatia can exercise their rights under this law. However, we also have the specificity that we add in the second sentence that rights can be achieved under this law by Croatian but foreign citizens, provided that at the time of their death they had a residence in the Republic of Croatia, that means that they are citizens now, for example. in Serbia that they have left the occupied area and I wonder whether and in what way you will determine whether this person was an aggressor or not. which is now in Serbia. Is there a register, but an actual register not only of information, but of an enemy army register which means it was an aggressor in the Republic of Croatia? This is a very important question, this may be the most important issue at this point, because if criminals are allowed in any way to receive, it achieves the rights that have been exerting aggression on the Republic of Croatia, then the tribune should think carefully on how to proceed with this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39689	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39690	Thank you very much, Mr. Bull, so I'm going to repeat more than three years of preparation for this bill. In the preparation of the law, we also created an administrative and organisational assumption for the implementation and application of this law. That we have been looking for almost 2 years in collaboration with police administrations to receive and form a catalog of all casualties at the time and in the circumstances of the Homeland War at the level of all police administrations. The Memorial Center of the Homeland War and all our services are also available for support in the application of not only this law and all other laws. Therefore, all assumptions have been made that this law can be fully implemented by its adoption.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39691	Thank you. The next replica of the distinguished representative Vlasic Iljkic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39692	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, we welcome the adoption of this law and we hope that it will not remain behind this much of the rights that are inconclusive. It means either because of insufficient documentation, insufficient personnel to carry out all these tasks or it will be a problem again for the length of the proceedings because the fact that we generally have an ease in prescribing rights until these rights are enforceable in subsequent practices. Also, psychosocial assistance teams are currently not teamed up enough with the supporting profession, and I'm afraid it won't just be so easy to add new users or, for example, the right to take advantage of accommodation in social care institutions is prescribed by this law, and the fact is that we don't have a new social care facility despite Prime Minister Plenkovic's 2016 promises to build 20 social care homes and provide over 2,000 accommodation facilities How much, according to your knowledge, is the total number of users not only of financial rights but of the total number of users of all rights under this law? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39693	Thank you, thank you. Here's the Minister's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39694	So you've heard the number of users under the existing law. So the law is still in force today and will be in force until the entry into force of this law since '92. A year. You've heard of the number of users we're dealing with today, and our projection is that new users will be around 2,500 with this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39695	Thank you. Let's move on, next replica, the esteemed representative of Jackov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39696	Thank you. Dear Mr. Minister, tell us which means of proof will be used by the Ministry of Defense in determining the procedure or the status of civilian victims of war?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39697	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39698	So, you heard in my opening part of the implementation methodology, you will use all available official acts and official documents of the Republic of Croatia with a note if it is acts that are not in the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as stated in my opening section. I stress the official documents of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39699	Thank you. The next replica of the distinguished representative Bencic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39700	Thank you. Dear Ministers, I hope we agree that every civilian victim is equal whether she is injured or for those who have been tragically killed by the enemy army or by domestic troops. What I am particularly interested in is how I will interpret the question or interpretation that civilian disabled persons are those who have been imprisoned in a camp, prison or other enemy facility by members of the accomplices of enemy soldiers and paramilitary formations compared to those who have been captured and also injured, for example, in Lora. Is this article going to give them the right to exercise civil disability status because it is not a matter of having the right to exercise civil disability because it is not about hostile military formations but about domestic troops who have committed war crimes against the civilian population, so we have a verdict in the case of Lora 1 and Lora 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39701	Thank you. Here's your reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39702	Therefore, the procedure and methodology of the initiation of the procedure and the submission of applications are laid down here. The implementation of the administrative procedure for each case will determine all the circumstances resulting from which the person has been injured, if he has been injured and the body will make valid decisions through the administrative procedure. I want to make it very clear, there is no name here, in this law there is no name, here we are talking about the civilian victims of the Homeland War by these parameters and by these criteria that we clearly stated here, so who is the civilian victim of the Homeland War, equally restrictions who cannot consume the rights of the Civil Victims Act of the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39703	Thank you very much. Next, please, what is the injured Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39704	In 238, I like to get a warning from you. Minister, tell me if they're in the Lora military prison, you've been in command of the 1st Guard Regiment, they've been held there by civilians in Lori or any other prison of our own.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39705	Dear fellow, I must stop you. This was not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, since you have already done so for the second time, that you have misused the Rules of Procedure and replicated it, I must give you a notice on the basis of Article 240. That's why I interrupted you. Let's move on. Your Honor, what has the Rules of Procedure been injured in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39706	Chairman, you insist on violating Article 236. So the MP has the right to breach the Rules of Procedure, 30 seconds has the right to speak about what he wants and then you decide whether he gets a warning or not, but you can't deny him that 30 seconds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39707	Come on, please read the Rules of Procedure, so you'll see that there's something to say about taking away words, I've just used it. Since the MP had already misused the Rules of Procedure for the second time in a way that he used the replica, I first let him pack up the whole replica in a breach of the Rules of Procedure, warned him, as he did so again, and I reached for Article 240 and took away his word. She told him to stop, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39708	I'm sorry, but after 30 seconds. He has 30 seconds to speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39709	I now give a warning to you, and to you it seems to me, no, it is not your first; this is the second. It's a new Rules of Procedure on agenda points. No, I don't. Based on article 240, I've given you a warning with a word-retraction. We stop with the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, we continue with the replicas. Honorable representative William Matula. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39710	I would like to thank the Vice President, Your Honor. I want to draw your attention to the problematic article 77, which regulates the fact that a civil war victim has caused or worsened, that fact needs to be proved by medical documentation that comes from a time of abuse, or from a time of 30 days after abuse. Whoever works with the victims, any kind of violence, is well aware that the victims are very often unable to ask for help within such short notice. We cannot discriminate with this article on the civilian victims of war that they have suffered because of the injustice, which they have withdrawn in their own trauma and may have been hidden in it for months, if not years. This law is an opportunity for those victims to speak, let's give them a chance. It's important for the future of our society. Let us not fear that this provision will be misused in this regard, it is well introduced in addition to documentation of the category of a oral witness who could confirm or disprove the victim’s allegations in the evidence. I'm sorry, too long.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39711	Yeah, you're all a little out of time today. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39712	Dear Mr. Matula. Analyzing me, I can guess what kind of death, or torture this is, if you're thinking about victims of a sexual settlement, or rape, that form or victims are solved by another law. [[Sabina Voter: Please, Mr. Matula. Please don't throw it out of the bench. Excuse me.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39713	Please, I'm gonna have to give you a warning, don't throw it out of the bench. Here you go. Then I will knowingly give you a reminder, based on Article 239, here's the warning you've now received consciously. Here you go, Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39714	Thank you very much. Our assessment is that under these circumstances all victims can be identified, namely to prove their injuries in the Homeland War, with these prescribed circumstances.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39715	Thank you very much. Let's move on. The next replica, the esteemed representative Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39716	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Minister. In the past Law, Mr. Deura, we were called to cooperate with the SDP, so now explain to me how you came to the idea that the SDP bill might be a little more consistent with Pupović's demands and that you serve it here in the Croatian Parliament. So this bill can only be called with one word, it's high treason, nothing but high treason.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39717	Thank you very much. Here you go. Just a moment ago, before responding to the replica, the esteemed representative Deur, the violation of the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39718	238, he insulted me. Dear Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39719	I'm sorry, who hurt you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39720	He hurt me, respected vice president, Minister. The esteemed representative used the word "individual", as I understood it, forgot that he was proposed by the guardians to Andrej Plenkovic to enter the HDZ and the Assembly, so that he had little insight into the future in which HDZ and the way he was helped by the concubines and priests.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39721	Are you going to give yourself a warning or am I going to give it to you?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39722	I'm sweeter than you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39723	Okay, I'm giving you a warning. What's been hurt here, Mr. Zekanovic? You're probably going to abuse the Rules of Procedure now? Okay. [[/Intruder: May I answer? So...]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39724	So article 238 of my colleague Deur is a little behind in time. So Mr. Deur I was elected to the Croatian Parliament with 5 and a half thousand preferential votes and it was a list of Croatian sovereigns and a whole series of other political parties and I proved that I could do without the big parties.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39725	Mr. Zekanovic, you have a warning too. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39726	Dear Madam Vice President, with these terms in the Croatian Parliament, we often do not meet. Dear Mr Zekanovic, you often abuse such an expression primarily towards the Croatian democratic community, and to me personally. It's a little harsh to call the minister of Croatian defenders a traitor and therefore you don't deserve an answer to your question. And just a comment on an earlier question, perhaps you're working closely with the SDP coalition? Perhaps you've come into possession of some kind of bill on civilian victims of the Homeland War? And you're in close cooperation with them. I personally didn't see him, and we don't know how you guys work because he's never been in a public debate. So I don't know what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39727	Well, thank you very much. Since we haven't been venting this room for two and a half hours, I think it's time we had a little bit of a window of this room and a little bit of calming down the heat of passion. We'll continue at 19.33. It'll be 19.20 hours. Please take your seats. [[CONTINUATION OF THE MEETING IN 19.35 HOURS]] We keep replicating it. Minister, go ahead. The next replica, distinguished representative Nino Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39729	Thank you. Minister Medved, in your proposal for this law, I quote that according to the current law, 1884 civilian victims of the Homeland War and 145 members of the families of the dead civilians are currently coming true. That's all 2029 people, users. You further state the estimated number of new users of status rights under this new law is around 2500. For 25 years after the war we have 2029 people who use these rights, and now with one move we add as many as 2500 new ones, which is 123 percent higher. Who are these people? How much of the two and a half estimated thousands will come from the former occupied areas, and in order to remove the suspicion that the trade is for three hands of Mr. Pupovac I suggest you delete Article 64 and that the records be made publicly available. This will remove suspicions of abuse, and the consent may sign even when applying that the data is publicly available. [[Intruder Voter: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39730	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39731	Mr. Representative, I didn't follow if you were when I delivered the opening statement. However, if you have followed, you have heard that this law has also been suspended and that is where the answer to your question lies, so in 2003 the right to apply under the existing law has been suspended. Let's not ignore the fact that both today and this moment and until the entry into force of this law, certain persons under certain suffering could bear the right until others did. A series of situations that undoubtedly indicate that the victims, civilian victims of the Homeland War, who lost their children, who lost their parents and who, under certain circumstances, could not bear the law, and which could, by the law in force.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39732	Thank you, Minister. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39733	Article 238 of the demeaning of MPs has been injured. As a legislator, I believe that the minister is obliged to answer our questions or to say that there is no answer or that there is no answer or that he does not want to answer. I've asked very clearly among other things how many of these estimated two and a half thousand since you've been assessing seriously I hope you did when you came to that number, how many of them do you estimate coming from the former occupied areas. Please answer my question.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39734	Thank you very much. We can't ask a question twice. I won't give you a warning, but I won't even allow the minister to answer your question through the infringement institute of the Rules of Procedure that you used as the current time to ask questions. Let's move on. Here are the replicas of the esteemed representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39735	I would like to thank Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister. The problem of the civilian victims of the Homeland War has so far been solved by the Law on Military and Civil Disabilities of War. Now, with this law, we would like to separate the civilian stadiums of the Homeland War into a special law. What's new to this law you've been talking about is the fact that now members of the family of the civilian victims of the Homeland War can consume the rights of this law regardless of whether the civilian victim has been declared dead. In this way as much as you have already said somewhere, I have not heard it will have the right of 1,000 members of the family of the victims of the Homeland War now based on such a provision of the law to use that right. Do these two and a half thousand we're talking about include those thousands of family members who are now able to consume the law, and what until yesterday, based on that old law, couldn't? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39736	Thank you very much. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39737	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bačić, therefore, according to all our projections, this very population of the families of the missing who have so far been the condition of declaring the deceased of their family member which is extremely painful and the role and many of our family members do not want to declare their member dead until we find remains, we do not carry out exhumation and identification they do not wish to declare him dead, and with this law it is not a condition. So they can consume rights without having previously declared their member dead. And these 1,000 users, these 1,000 family members are also the largest group in this projection of the number of 2 and a half thousand possible new users.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39738	Thank you very much. The next replica, distinguished representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39739	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, you pointed out that the Association of Civil Victims of the Homeland War participated in the drafting of this law with two of its representatives along with all the institutions of the Republic of Croatia. However, they also sent a letter to all of our MPs saying the following. We ask you, as Parliamentarians, to be the voice of reason, the voice of empathy and understanding, not our stone of another stumbling block. We'd also like to ask for a word if you don't know enough about this question. This is what almost no one has ever done, and I repeat to those who threaten to set up tents to prevent the blooming of our rights. Please understand all mothers who have lost their own children. All the kids who lost their fathers and mothers, everyone who's still looking for missing family members. All wounded civilians, civilian victims and civilian victims wounded as children. It's people who've been ripped off body parts. and parts of life. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39740	Thank you very much. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39741	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Djakic, it is true, therefore, from the first moment from the initiation of the draft of this law in 2017, the Alliance of Civil Victims of the Homeland War actively includes up to, participates until the last moment until the reference of this law to the parliamentary procedure. They are fully in line with this proposed text and I believe that the Croatian Parliament will accept this proposal, I believe that after so many years this law will be taken into account that this is a highly sensitive and vulnerable group of people who have lost their loved ones or who have been wounded by their loved ones during the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39742	Thank you very much. Next replica, distinguished representative Marijan Pavliček. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39743	Dear Minister, it is clear to all of us that the final appearance of this law has arisen primarily on the insistence of the SDSS and that another government has proposed this law would already have 10 tents in Sava, because this law allows all those who lived in occupied areas so-called. SAO Krajina to use permanent rights. For example, even the ministers in the SAO Government are civilians, and if they were killed as civilians after the term of office, they will have permanent rights under this law because they do not comply with Article 5, at the time when they were killed they were neither the aggressors nor were they soldiers themselves. How do you solve this problem because obviously this is primarily a deal between the HDZ and the SDSS?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39744	Thank you very much. Here's an answer to the minister's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39745	Dear Mr. Representative, I said on several occasions when we started making this law, I said this was one of the three normative acts that we announced in 2017. Since then, we have been doing it intensively, and I will repeat what Assembly MP Djakic said that we are doing it in partnership with the Association of Civil Victims of the Homeland War. You may have your opinion...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39746	Thank you very much. We are going to the last replica of the distinguished representative Milanovic Litre, Milanovic Litre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39747	Thank you, Your Honor, the Chairman. Dear Minister Medved, this law opens the door to the abolised Chetniks and politicians engaged in the constitutionally banned SDSS and they have the opportunity to consume all rights and privileges as well as innocent civilian victims by adopting this law. Croatian sovereigns will show this with their amendments General Sacic has prepared, a total of 19 of them. And my question to you is do you think that Croatian taxpayers' money should be spent on people who did not want free Croatia but did everything to destroy the foundations of Croatian statehood?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39748	Thank you very much. Here's the Minister's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39749	So I'm going to repeat to you since we've been doing this bill, which we're working with in partnership with, and I'm going to repeat that the law was passed in '92. the year, the applicable law and that those persons you speak of have been able to consume those rights or to apply for the exercise of the right of the basis of this law since then. Let's repeat the metrics and significantly related to the content of this Law that this is the Law on Civil Victims of the Homeland War. You heard clearly in my opening statement that preconditions must be met. Methodology and the process from the initiation of the process to the adoption of a solution on the regulation of the status of civilian victims of the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39750	Thank you very much, Minister. You can go to your place. Before we continue the debate on behalf of the clubs, will the committee's rapporteurs take the floor? He does. Dear Representative Josip Djakic is chairman of the War Veterans Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39751	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Fellow Members and fellow MPs, Proposal for a Law on Civil Victims of the Homeland War The Committee on War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament at its 2nd session held on 20 January 2021 discussed the proposal for a Law on Civil Victims of the Homeland War submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia with its act of 17 December 2020. In accordance with the provisions of Article 91, the Committee considered the act in question as a parent body. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. According to representatives of the promoter of the rights of civilian victims of the Homeland War, the Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities of War 92, which has been amended as many as 12 times so far, has been regulated. Under the current law, the law currently provides for a thousand 884 civilian victims of the Homeland War and 145 members of the families of the dead civilians and despite these numerous amendments to the law, many are still not covered, and the rights are not tailored to their needs. The proposal for a Civil Victims Act of the Homeland War defines the concept of a Civil Victim of the Homeland War so that the rights can be achieved by the victims who could not do so under the applicable law. The law will also cover civilian victims as a result of an explosion of mine-explosive assets or the use of firearms between 17 August 90th and 30 June 96th. It will also allow the exercise of rights to members of the families of missing civilians in the Homeland War and before declaring their family members dead. A deadline will be opened to recognise the status of a civilian disabled from the Homeland War on the basis of disease. The records of civilian victims will be established, and measures are envisaged to improve the socio-economic position of users. The rights can be exercised by citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but also by foreign citizens, provided that they had their residence in the Republic of Croatia at the time of their death. The estimated number of new users of status rights under this new law is about 2,000 and 500. The basis for the exercise of the right since 2001 will increase at 100% of the budget base to 3 000 326 kuna, and the increase is projected by 115% of the budget base of 3 thousand 824 kuna. The law enforcement funds are provided in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, and according to the 2021 projections, an additional 30 million kuna was provided for 2022 million kuna and 60 million kuna for 2023 years. The Committee members discussed the following opinions, proposals and comments. It is necessary to specify more precisely who the civilian victims of the Homeland War are who will exercise their rights under this Law in order not to be abused by members and assistants or associates of enemy military and paramilitary formations. It is replicated in Article 76(3) for the unclear definition of how the status of a civilian disabled from the Homeland War is achieved and the procedure for the exercise of rights and for the determination of the status of a civilian victim. A list of persons who participated in the aggression against the Republic of Croatia is needed. The law cannot regulate the rules and all obstacles must be removed. It's proposed to cut the deadline from 6 months to 60 days. Information and data on civilian victims should be checked by security mechanisms. It is necessary to pass a single law that will regulate the rights of civilian victims of the Homeland War in one place. After the debate, the Committee proposed a next conclusion to the Croatian Parliament by a majority of votes of 6 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 3 votes against. A bill on civilian victims of the Homeland War is being passed. Under 2nd of all observations, proposals and opinions will be presented in the debate to the applicant in order to draw up a final draft of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39752	Thank you. And we're going now with debates on behalf of the clubs. The first on the job is the Club of Representatives of the Most in the name of which the distinguished representative Miro Bulj will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39753	We have before us the Law of Victims, the civilian victims of the Homeland War. Of course this law is necessary and long before it should have been passed because I believe that people who are innocent victims of a great Serb aggressor because of great Serbian aggression must stress it in every sentence that... The victims of the Homeland War of Greater Serbian aggression even once I was saying I think it should even be in the name of the law that it is known that the victims are civilians because of great Serb aggression, which is very important to point out and emphasize. [[You don't understand.]] Because simply what they have done to Croatia is one of the great civilizational damages that has been done in these areas that is simply after World War II, no such crime has been remembered from Vukovar to Dubrovnik. I said today once in my debate that my first amendment in 2016, and yesterday was the anniversary he was here today alone and found that amendment was to budget to be reduced in 2016 to remove funds from former President Stjepan Mesic's office and assigned to the civilian disabled Homeland War, which were then first in the budget. This can also be confirmed by the minister that the amendment has been accepted and that funds from the Office of Stjepan Mesic have been transferred directly to the Civil Disabilities Association of the Homeland War. I think they've been for years. neglected. However, there are several misunderstandings here. Which we really need to talk about and think about. This law goes into two readings, which is good and it's good that the Secretary of Defense, here all day long here, the few ministers come here for a debate and be here all day, mostly most of them either don't come or don't come here, but here's the minister. And I appreciate that, however, when we talk about civilian victims, there is no definition of that part of the great Serb aggressors who have committed major crimes between themselves and the civilian victims that caused this great damage and caused it. Because in Article 2, we have an exceptional, exception to paragraph 1 which tells our article that they can, meaning users of this right and citizens, achieve Croatian but also foreign citizens, provided that they had a residence in the Republic of Croatia at the time of their death. And now we come to this problem. We are now experiencing a key problem in Article 2. We come up with a problem that we don't have a missing persons register, we don't have a register, we know that criminals who burned, slaughtered in Vukovar, and here we have our men who fought, heroes who were in the area of Vukovar, who burned, slaughtered, free-walking. They were not responsible for their crimes, so people who were responsible, who were ratting, betraying, or persecuting, who, they were not responsible for the crimes committed in the territory of the Republic of Croatia during the Greater Serbian aggression. So it's a huge problem and it's a big problem, it's pain and cry out to the sky. If the Chetniks get one, the Chetnik, they get the right from this law. Anyway, I'm not even going to politicize, I'm not going to mention either the SDSS or the HDZ or the Pupovec, I'm not going to mention anyone, but it's a crime, it's a cry to the sky. This article, I'm not going to read it at all, in the first article. Is there a registry of aggressors? Chetnik, Serbian volunteers now living in Serbia, who were here, participated in war or were citizens, is there any? Can we Parliamentarians get it? We can get him on the National Security Committee to be on our way. So we have cases that in the highest institutions of the Republic of Croatia we have cannons, which manage large resources as state secretaries, were cannons and were well shot, were precise when they were targeting Vukovar or Osijek, I don't know. Mile was precise. So when we talk about the need and necessity of this Law, I agree that the Law should have been passed long ago. Because what the Serbian aggression has done and on the subject of civilian victims, did not the Orkan choose in Zagreb if a Serb wounded, is a man by nationality of Serbs, Croats, Roma, Bulgaria, Hungary, the target of Mile Martic, a ruthless, centre of Zagreb. And here it's not the question that I'm saying this because of extremism, any civilian victim, I'm signing right now, I'm not going to discuss it at all, and it's basic human, I think it's quite reasonable. However, who will determine the victims who have died and are now in Serbia or even in Croatia, but mostly in other countries, were they civilians or as terrorists, Chetniks? Unless there is an element that you listed that our police, service, SOA, here is very clear, the state institutions must when a man comes looking, if he was on the side of great Serb aggression, aggressor, he brings confirmation, he has no confirmation that he was an aggressor, he brings confirmation that he was at that time a citizen, lived in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. And here we are in trouble, so the basic problem of a respected minister, don't take it as an attack, don't take it as a politicisation, don't take this as an opposition or as you say, you haven't read it, no. Indeed, it must not happen here, I hope that, as fellow Deur, as a werewolf defender, Col. Djakic, all of you defenders will ask yourselves what is going on with this article, that you will ask. If there could have been a tent there and you say he was right, and if you were yelling then, yell and now, I'll give you my hand another time if I'm in power, when someone's mine, yell. Triba shout, whether in opposition or in power, explain Article 2. How will you determine whether a man who was now in Serbia, in another country, and bring in documentation that he was wounded or sick, how will you prove that he was not in Chetniks? Give me a model. Give me a model. Do you have a list of all people, assistants, aggressors, do you? If you do, then we can talk about it or else we can erase this article, I don't know how else, I don't know, I don't know, what model. I think I've been very simple and very clear I've been very simple and very clear, my colleague Deur is smiling, not meaningful, this is more than sad. I know that sometimes the hands of Milorad Pupovac are needed, they are needed sometimes in the stalls, but this is a serious condition, this is a serious question. This is the question of those who are victims and besides where the campers law is, I remember in the last term on the board we were talking about the campers law how, here I ask the question and the minister. I remember on a committee in the previous term it was said there would be a law on people who were in Serbian concentration camps. And finally, to conclude, for the civilian victims of the great-serb aggressor in the Homeland War, of the Greater-Serb aggression, because of the great-Serb aggression, but never can the Chetniks, terrorists, the Serb aggression exercise this right. And in order for this right, they can talk at all, to give us damage and ask the minister once again to finally charge, send an account to Serbia, Vukic, to collect war damage of EUR 40 billion. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39754	Now it is time for the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns to first be Mr. Sacic I suppose so, then Mr. Pavliček. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39755	Thank you very much. Good evening, all of us, Mr. Minister, secretary, chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, the Croatian public here we are here thank God from 9:30 and we will be as much as necessary on the important and significant subject. What we can say can't even fit in these 5-10 minutes, so I'll try again. So, Mr. Prime Minister, we have, thank you, but I'm a little excited, we actually have a law that's justified by using all the information that I've had addressed to, Mr. Vice President of the Government, addressed to 28.644 users now of which 8.155 of them in the occupied part of it by Mrs. Jeckov, Mr. Pupovac know, they are 8.155 without the abolised Chetniks, so these are just civilians of which, of those 8,000, 5.155 are dead, dead, missing civilians according to the relevant sources of Vesna Teselić, Save Strbac, our Croatian centre of documentation, Žirić from Institute Ivo Pilar, I mean relevant to what is available, right, that means to you. They're only your Serbian civilian victims. There they even agree that this one, this Savo Strbac, says that he himself says about 2,000 people doubting whether they were civilians or armed village guards but that's still civilians, so he says. Now you have an unoccupied additional 10,289 dead civilians, and 4,000 children are killed, and we have heard 402 God give them peace and peace of mind to everyone upstairs, and you have 10,200 wounded as easily as possible by civilians who also have to address this law as it is set up. And it's about 60 million kuna in your first month of application because you, in fact, when they formally come to you first-degree, second-degree. The following is disputed that this number is not covered, is not covered by the SAO Krajina.../incomprehensible/... what counterpart Pavlikek was saying to those referenda who were fragmenting Croatia, the initiatives of the SDSS anti-constitutional membership, the anti-constitutional one which was banned, and they theoretically can come, but they are past all that is additional. We don't know who they are because you opened the door for strangers. Now of course, we object to being strangers because the existing law regulates them to be strangers. We also want to say that we are not like normal people, human against that no innocent child, regardless of nationality, gender, so I don't know what else to say, this faith does not exercise the right if but in the part which is a collateral sacrifice, which is the SAO Krajina occupied.../incomprehensible/... Serbia must, it must pay. So, the Serbian part, the excuse that Serbia should pay minimally for one and the other is 60 million because it has caused great Serbian aggression, yes. However, you put it all under the impression of humanity without further ado, etc. In the section that I heard you refer to, you predicted in the Civil Victims Act parallelism that people who were killed who were ruled that Mr. Matula or Mrs. Bencic said in Lori, in prisons in.../incomprehensible/... to them that the state of Croatia has already damaged with millions of kunas, you are also now giving additional permanent rights to life, so it needs to be harmonised, and you have not brought it into line here. That's Article 9 where you say other models of this deprivement of freedom. You also say the murders of explosive, firearms, etc., and that they are not related to direct action in the Homeland War. What does that mean? This means that I will be to you everything that has happened in Croatia, which has been processed, which is already fat financial, I think what is financially in.../incomprehensible/... the procedures solved are also done by all these victims and killed and killed and this injured, etc., they are placed in parallel, while you forget this camper's clean conscience. You can't even give it to the logs. You're also saying that you're going to stand out like that so you won't give rights to a man who's self-inflicted. Give him a medal, on the contrary. A Serb who lives in the occupied area even though he has avoided the Chetnik service to shoot at the Croat brother, so give him a medal. However, if it has been found that he was wounded not to go into the army and that he is not going to shoot on the Croatian people, he should be given a medal as it should be given, he should not yet be punished for God’s sake. He's supposed to have his picture here. It's the only thing that needs to be determined. Is that right, Mrs. Jeckov? We also have in the entire Homeland War six Serbs, Ivica Panja Orkan knows them by their exact name and last name, all of them. Six imagine in the entire Homeland War who died protecting the Croats on the threshold when the Chetnik bogeyman came to kill the Croats he said – so no, don't, they're honest people. Well, you don't have them, Mr. Minister, six Serbs, Mrs. Jeckov, we have heroes in Croatia. Their pictures on these reconciliations should be given to their children, their parents, not to whom? To those who were abolized, who were against Croatia. Thank you very much. Mr. Pavlichk has to. ... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39756	You guys still have a little talk, so it's time to go even further. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39757	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, I appreciate you as a Croatian defender, as a warlord. However, this law is a classic example of HDZ and SDSS trade, a classic example of trade. And this law only confirms how powerful Milorad Pupovac is in this coalition that is currently in power. This Law allows all those who have lived in occupied areas to exercise their rights and that lasting rights as civilians, which is precisely confirmed by Article 2 which states that, in addition to Croatian citizens, the rights under this law have exceptional and foreign citizens. What foreign citizens are we talking about? Of those who were in occupied areas in 91, 2nd, 3rd, 4th and 5th years did not have Croatian citizenship, all of them will, if they prove that they were killed as civilians, receive permanent rights from that same Croatian state which they have been struggling against in one way or another. Well, I'll give you just a few examples. I believe most of you are familiar with this photograph. It's Mrs. Jelica Jankovic, the Radiotelevision of Belgrade. It was taken on the 18th of November after the fall of Vukovar. Mrs. Jelica Jankovic was a civilian. For 3 months, she was imprisoned or sheltered for 3 months with all other civilians in the city of Vukovar. The Croatian army fed her, ate and cared for her safety. The same Jelica Jankovic, when the Serb army entered Vukovar, openly called Croatian defenders. A lot of them are dead today, they're gone. This person, slightly weaker in sight, is Nada Todorovic the same as Jelica Jankovic was at the atomic shelter for 3 months. The Croatian army took care of her, took care of her safety. The same Nada Todorovic told Serbian soldiers in occupied Vukovar on the same 18.11. This same Nada Todorovic according to this Act is a civilian and if it proves that she was killed as a civilian by a mine explosive device or a stray bullet will be able to exercise permanent rights from the Croatian state and that is true. This lady here is Angela Menjak from Vukovar, Petrova Gora, Chetnik Bed in 91. She cooked, as she says, the chorba acid for our captain who has cross-glories, and for the Croats she says and they were more than animals. If she died as a civilian she will have rights, permanent rights from the Croatian state and Milorad Pupovac succeeded in his intention in 2007. Unfortunately in 2021, you'll give him what I didn't really expect from you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39758	Time. Thank you. Mrs. Jeckov was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39759	The Honorable Vice President was injured in Article 238. Mr. Sacic called me several times without saying a word. But I'm gonna use this one...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39760	I'm sorry. Say again that he called. Say it one more time, I need to know exactly what this is about. [[I'm sorry?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39761	This Regulation shall enter Mr. Sacic called me several times during his discussion without saying a single word. In this regard, I risk getting a warning from you now and saying that it was precisely from the Community of Croatian War Victims Association that the public members of the Sovereign Lord called and said that it was unacceptable in the name of the victims of the Law that the representatives of the victims themselves were doing were talking about from the angle of ignorance of their position, and human beings were defeated and used in this same sacrifice for their own personal purposes and political purposes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39762	I have to give you a warning for two reasons. I have to give you a warning because you spoke 30 seconds more, and besides, it was a replica if you will. [[Jackov: It's okay.]] Here you go, Mr. Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39763	Injury of the Rules of Procedure by counterpart Dragana Jeckov, who calls 238. [[Intruder Radin: Which point, which point?]] Representatives of Croatian sovereigns say they use someone else's sacrifice for political purposes. General Sacic showed his victim during the Homeland War. And openly say that this bill was also supported by the Serbian National Council, tell everyone to let the entire Croatian public know.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39764	Thank you very much. A reminder of course you know it yourself. There were two replicas. I can't do anything. Mrs. Vesna Nadj will speak in front of the Representatives' Club. ... Who? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And Mrs. Jeck's here again. And Mrs. Jeckov speaks, yes. But before I have one piece of information. Excuse me, Mrs. Jeckov. So with this item on the agenda, we're going to end the debate today, because she has a lot of applications, we have a registration of any club, any individual, and tomorrow we're going to start with the amendment law and the additions of the Tourism Service Act. Excuse me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39765	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Before I say anything about this legislative proposal, I would like to point out that today we are talking about civilian victims or civilian victims who have a clear legal definition that is formally legalized, and we are actually talking about people who have been killed without participating in the war, which is certainly a real definition of life. Almost 30 years ago, actually '92. In the year, the Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities of War was passed which, regardless of the fact that it was changed and complemented, only 12 times left by a group of civilian war victims disbursed. It did not cover all civilian victims, and as a rule only because of the dissatisfaction of formal legal conditions, although it was undeniable for civilian war victims. Today we're talking about civilian victims, victims who shouldn't have nationality, religious or political commitment. The victim is simply a victim and suffering is simply suffering. The rights provided for by this or earlier law are not and cannot compensate for the loss or suffering suffered by civilian victims but will only try to mitigate the consequences of this loss or suffering. After the suffering or loss of loved ones, it seems that the civilian victims were once again punished because they could not achieve their status, which is certainly unfair and inadmissible, because of the failure of bureaucratic conditions, these people with their tragic fates remain disproved. Therefore, the primary objective of this law is essentially the adoption of a single act that will cover all rights of civilian victims and will be an expression of concern for those who have suffered directly or today suffer the consequences of war and war horrors. We've had a lot of opportunities to hear about this pay phone today. Some words and attitudes do not go with defenders, for they are almost cowardly. It's a sad fact that today someone's tragedy is trying to make senseless and perfiduous politicizing about equating the victim and the aggressor. I know for a fact that that's not what people who have suffered, who have lost or are still looking for. They only want one thing, and it certainly has nothing to do with hate or revenge. Those who speak hateful language today do not think about whether their politics again today and their quasi with emotional outflows of patriotism actually hurt the victim again. I'll tell two short stories that I'm sure my colleague Milinarevic knows who I'm talking about, Mlinaric, I'm sorry. Those two stories, of course, I've heard, I could actually tell a few dozen, but these two are quite striking and it's important for me that my colleague knows. I was told by members of the Anti-Forget Association, which brings together families of the victims of civilians, mostly of Serbian nationality, brought closer to the search for their loved ones and for such justice. One of the civilian victims was the director of VUPIK's co-operation, a more visible Serb, a Vukovarian of that age. According to the stories of fellow citizens of all nationalities, a correct and esteemed man with a wide circle of friends. That fateful Wednesday 31.7.91. He returned home from work for a year, stopped by a nearby store, and when he came out, he was welcomed by two cars without registration and six members of the National Guard Assembly and then lost every lead. Since then, his wife has been searching hard and patiently for him but quite unsuccessfully. To this day, nothing is known about him, and to this day, of course, she has no rights whatsoever. An elderly couple took refuge in Boro’s commercials on 15.11.1991. They were also shot at the train station. The wife was killed, and the husband with severe injuries survived and managed to get to the hospital. Of course, he suffered injuries from which he was severely disabled, of course, without any rights. Because of these and similar fates, we need such a law, it is necessary for these people to get not only material but also moral satisfaction in order to identify their sacrifice, admit their suffering and feel social solidarity. As far as the legal proposal itself is concerned, the most controversy certainly caused Article 5. The proposal for a law which, by a negative definition, has prescribed that those are persons who cannot exercise the right under the law. For example, rights cannot be exercised by members, assistants and associates of enemy military and paramilitary troops who participated in armed aggression against the Republic of Croatia as well as by members of their families. It is doubtful whether the provision is contrary to Article 1. The Law on Discrimination of Discrimination because it actually speaks, which is in fact prohibited discrimination by marital or family status. This proposal should contain a more precise provision which is the helpers or associates of enemy military and paramilitary units, since this definition is quite broadly defined which may lead to ambiguity in proving such status or contrary proof, i.e. that someone was not in that status. Furthermore, Article 9 speaks of prisons in camp, prisons and others, and there stands attributes hostile and therefore I question what will happen to civilians held captive in Kerestinco, civilians imprisoned in Lora, Paki plain camp, civilians trapped in pavilion 22. Zagreb Fair, civilians from Gospić and Karlobag, civilians and their family from Osijek. Will they also be treated as civilian victims of war? I will also refer to Article 77, as the status of a civilian victim of war is demonstrated in the classical administrative procedure is a vague reason why the proof will be possible only by means of documents, i.e. written evidence. It would be logical for evidence to be possible, for example, by means of witnesses, eyewitnesses, findings, and opinions of experts and other written evidence, as prescribed by the General Administrative Procedure Act. It is also a restrictive provision that states that the victims of the war within 30 days after the abuse had the opportunity to obtain medical documentation as well as the provision of proof only through documentation issued by the competent authorities, as it is very likely that individual civilian victims of the war who were indeed outside the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia were treated elsewhere. This legislative proposal addresses the issues of the families of the dead, the missing civilian victims of the disabled, and the families of the dead, the underage children and children wounded in the Homeland War, the families of the dead and the missing as well as the families of the children who died today did not exercise any rights by remaining both secondary and forgotten victims. This legislative proposal will ensure, as I said, that in addition to material satisfaction and recognition of their suffering regardless of nationality, honoring regardless of nationality, and social solidarity regardless of nationality. And let me just say one more thing. A stand-alone democratic Serbian party for those who do not know a few days ago celebrated its 24th birthday. So she was never banned, and our founder was never even prosecuted, not prosecuted. So much for those who don't know much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39766	When you're done, you'll tell me, so we can move on. Are you done? Thank you. We've got a breach of the Rules of Procedure. First violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Marian Pavlichek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39767	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, infringement of Rules of Procedure Article 238. A colleague of Dragana Jeckov made a series of lies about what happened in Vukovar in 1991, especially about Mr. Mrkic's case, where she falsely accused a member of the National Guard Assembly without any evidence that they committed this murder. And I, as a citizen of the city of Vukovar, say responsibly that in 1991, those who ended up with most were the ringleaders of the great Serb aggression And had it not been for Tomislav Mercep, we would have been slaughtered like lambs in 1991. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] And that's the living truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39768	You have another warning because it was a replica. Please sit down. Time. Sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39769	Let him take more care of his village and his crimes and how the Croats ended up in her village of Negoslavci...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39770	Mr. Pavlovich, would you like to sit down? You have a third warning and a taking away word. Third warning and taking away words. Please! Third warning and taking away words. And now, Mr. Miljevic, you have two warnings, and then you speak for the club. It's my duty to tell. Okay. Thank you. Let's move on. Mrs. Vesna Nadj in front of the Club of Representatives of the SDP. Here you go. I'm sorry. Should we clean it up? Yeah, yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39771	I would like to thank Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of State. Civil casualties from the Homeland War more than 25 years after the Homeland War have not at all or in a satisfactory way resolved their status and rights. The Law on the Protection of Civil and Military Disabilities of War, which currently regulates their rights so far, has been changed 12 times, but has never been able to capture all categories, nor all rights and expectations. Minister Medved says he is pleased that finally after 25 years, a Law on Civil Victims of the Homeland War was finally written. However, already in the mandate of the SDP government, the main criticisms of former Minister Fred Matic came from the circles of nearby Ministers Medved and HDZ, that the Law on Civil Victims of the Homeland War, which was made at the Ministry of the Croatian Defence, will equalise the victim and the aggressor, and that the document of Vesna Teselic was part of it, and that we do not have a list of aggressors or deserters. But as former Minister Fred Matic described it in a vivid manner if he attacked Croatia, he has no rights under this law, but his son Jovica cannot and must not be guilty of what his father or grandfather did if he lost his leg in shelling. Croatia will have to take care of him. Now all the rights that we have then entered into the draft law for the exercise of those rights of the victim, the civilian victims are also prescribed in this bill of law. It is obvious that HDZ not only privatised public policies towards Croatian defenders, but also against civilian victims of the Homeland War. However, we are pleased that the ruling have accepted the direction that the SDP government has shown in regulating the rights of civilian victims. The Association of Civil Victims of the Homeland War of Croatia is now satisfied with the proposed text of the law, so on their facebook page, they stated that the law which is before the MPs is not the law on which the SDSS worked, nor was it designed by the Document, but was initiated by its Community of Associations of Croatian Civil Victims of the Homeland War. There is no doubt that they are initiators of the law, but it is one thing to initiate, and the other is to have majority support in the Croatian Parliament. And representatives of the SDSS make up the ruling majority with HDZ, so there should be no problem in voting this law. What was not allowed then by Minister Fred Matic is now in the same content allowed by Minister Medved, because it was very agreed that HDZ is in a coalition with the SDSS and, of course, hands are important in the Croatian Parliament. But to show how patriots are already in the first article are a series of ideological phrases that have nothing to do with this law, but with the Declaration of Homeland War which, to remind us, is 2000. Unanimity adopted in this Croatian Assembly. The sovereign Republic of Croatia is the foundation and its state-level continuity and on the decisions of the Earth's anti-fascist council of the National Liberation of Croatia by the highest authority of the national government in Croatia founded by the anti-fascist movement. The purpose of the law is not to prescribe ideological values and historical truths, and especially when they differ from the original basis of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and therefore the SDP Club requires that those provisions be deleted from Article 1. If the proposer had just wanted to appeal to some values, he should have called on the International Criminal Tribunal's judgments for the former Yugoslavia whose verdicts are an important basis for recognising the rights of civilian victims of the Homeland War. We believe that in the first part of the law, it was meant to specify the victims of the Homeland War and other definitions, only then to prescribe the rights. It should be noted that this law must guarantee all persons who were victims of war no matter where they were found as victims of war. They could also have been victims in areas without combat and from which they were threatened, which means that the problem of civilian victims who have so far been negligible should be approached thoroughly without discrimination on any basis of any ethnicity or national origin. It should be possible to obtain the status of a civilian victim of the Homeland War and with the grounds of imprisonment not only in an enemy camp, in a prison or an object but also with the basis of presence in facilities controlled by Croatian forces such as Lora, Kerestinec, Pakračka Poljana. We point out that Article 6 of the first draft of the law on family members provides for family members within the meaning of this law to be considered as marriage mates and children, family members, and parents, members of a wider family. Therefore, it follows from the above that informal life partners are left out of the definition of family, and as such they cannot even exercise the rights that a spouse and an extramarital partner can exercise under this law. This was also pointed to by the lawyer for gender equality. This law should be a civilization step that, after more than 25 years in a comprehensive way, will eventually recognise the right to moral and then material compensation to civilian victims of the Homeland War. We therefore do not understand why the promoter has dropped housing and health care for those who have failed to do so on some other basis. We welcome the raising of the basis for determining the personal disability to 115% of the budget base for determining the amount of personal disability as well as raising the basis for the family disability. It is also good to remove obstacles to the exercise of the right to a family disability such as employment, pension or self-employed activity, which would no longer be an obstacle to achieving a family disability. This law establishes the records of civilian victims from the Homeland War, but it will not be public. In accordance with Article 60 of the Treaty on It is not publicly available and used for official purposes. The confidentiality of the records does not make any sense or purpose, provided that the data is published in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act. For which confidentiality and where data are published in accordance with the General Data Protection Regulation. If the IRS can publish tax debtors, we can also publish this record. The exercise of rights procedure is not transparent. It is prescribed that the minister will prescribe a way of achieving the status and rights of civilian persons with disabilities and the rights of family members of the dead, prisoners or non-permanent civilians so that we cannot discuss the proposal. The Minister shall also appoint a medical first-degree and second-degree trust to the Regulation and to the Regulation prescribe a working methodology. The review of the findings and opinions of the first-degree medical committee is considered unnecessary if there is no appeal procedure. We propose to the Proposer that by the second reading, he observes the comments of the SDP Club because otherwise we will give amendments and we will not be able to do so unless the amendments are adopted we will not be able to support such a bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39772	No, no. Now it's your turn, Mr. Mlinarić knows there's no replica. But he's up. Mr. Stipo Mlinarić, who will speak in front of the Association of State Movement Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39773	Thank you very much, Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. Here's the thing. You have a man standing before you who this gentleman, not a fellow Sacic, but I can't remember the name now, Pavliček was showing pictures of those ladies. This is the man who fed these ladies throughout the war. Mrs. Jeckov, don't leave the assembly, stay here and you and Pupovci to hear. You accused me of two murders. You're sitting there to expose the Serbian lie that you keep running through this House. This is how Mrs. Jeck got out, but she'll hear it. She spoke of 15.11. Here are examples of the entire public where I expose the Serbian lie. Minister Medved, the famous Vukovar, Ante Deur, you fought in Vukovar, said 15.11.2 civilians from Borovo's commerciale where I was captured four days later were carried out, the lady was killed, and the husband was wounded and went to the hospital. Mr. Deur, could 15.11. have passed from Bor's settlement to the Vukovar hospital? No, it wasn't, because it was cut off by Mrs. Jeck's probably father, and those from her village cut off their way to a silo in Bor's village. No one, we fought for 15 days without a hospital, without a hospital we fought. And the one who shot the Kobajaga went down to the Vukovar hospital. We couldn't get through to Vukovar Hospital with a gun in our hand. Those from Vukovar couldn't get there to Bor's settlement. He's lying! And that's why she came out. That's why she came out.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39774	Mr. Mlinaric, I would ask you to talk only about the subject, not about the people.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39775	.../Intruder Mlinarić: Well, this is the theme of Vice President of the Parliament called me Mrs. Jeck's name and last name that I am guilty of two civilians who were killed./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39776	I won't stop you, but let's not talk about the MP, especially now that they're gone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39777	Well, they weren't there when they went out. Normally they went out when... Mr. Bear, can you see how right I was when I was talking about who this law was? She said it to you, she said it now. Do you see who this law is for? That's why you put it at nine o'clock in the evening so the Croatian public doesn't see what's coming with this law. This law is for Laura. She named you Mrs. Jeck's Mr. Bear all the prisons where we kept the brushes in prison. You know it well, I know it well. Djakic, Deur, Sacic we all know that well. Did she list Stajic, Nis, Sremska Mitrovica who I was and 16000 Croatian defenders? Did anyone say that? Did you count it? Did anyone count it? It's not. It's not because you care about my 270 days of camp, you don't care how many people were killed in Stajic, how many people were killed in Mitrovica. You don't care that I'm on a warrant from Serbia and today my picture is in three positions of 66 war crimes indictees for defending my city, for defending my city, my country. But today, if I were to pay Mrs. Jeckov, Mr. Pupovac would have to pay something or theirs there for those who fought. Well, this is the bottom, this isn't going anywhere. This isn't going anywhere. Explain to the people of Slavonia whose children go to Ireland, to Germany to work, that as they send money to their fathers that those in the VAT they buy will live off of it to pay those who have destroyed half the state. Mrs. Jeck has listed three civilians. I explained to these two civilians that it was a lie. I of those ladies who showed the pictures here, whom I and my comrades fed and kept all the time of the war and hell in Vukovar, showed the entire hospital 262 wounded taken to the mortuary where the cattle were buried murdered. Between them and my brother And today I have to listen to this first-row pay phone from Mrs. Jeckov who lies and calls me, and if she stayed here, she could have learned something, and now I'm going to tell you, so you learn. [[Intruder: Terrible!]] On Trpinjska road 14.9. we hit the M84 tank, not one 20. But that one's interesting. As Mr. Bear, you know it well, Deur, all of you, so I don't pick up Sacic, tank M84, let go of the smokescreen. The tank driver hid in a ruined house, lived for ten days in a pantry, in a Slavonic spatiz where there was only tomato sauce cooked like a winter break. He gave himself to us after 10 days, he gave himself to me and my friends from turbo water and yellow ants because he realized we were passing by that house all the time. He turned himself in. He had a scorpion on him. We took him to the command no one hit him, no one hit him. The man went after our tank M84. You know where that man is today? That man is my friend. This man is called Sinisha Jovanov, a reserver from Valjev. It's a Croatian soldier. The treasure of Zadro asked him when we brought him in, the first sentence, are you hungry? [[Applause.]] He gave him a piece of bread and a steak and ate it. Today this man lives in Croatia, today this man lives in Zagreb. Today this man is driving a motorcycle, my friend Sinisha Jovanovic's name is, a reservation from Pancheva. These are facts, and these are lies, these are Serbian lies that have poisoned us 70 years since World War II. And she accused me. [[So let's not do this, let's not, please don't! Let's not mention it because I'm going to...]] You can give me whatever you want. [[But I'm going to have to give a warning, I'm going to have to give a third warning and you know what that means.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39778	I don't want to, I'd like to stay on civilised level. Let's not, please. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39779	Let's move on. The civilized level is that I have now told you that we have saved the Serbian tanker who lives in Zagreb today, has a Croatian pension. It's a civilization level. This level where 262 wounded from the Vukovar hospital alone were killed it wasn't resolved, you know that's not resolved. But I'm trying to explain to you what is the level and what is not the level. [[No, no, no. We're not talking about you and me.]] It is not the level of being used here after a pay phone with lies and accusing the Croatian defender who fought for this country of accusing some two civilians and lying about it. Unbelievable! Now I'm not talking about this civil law at all, because I know it was done for them, I'm aware of Mr. Minister and you and I that this law was not made for campers who were in Serbian camps. We all know that wasn't done for. It was made for them. If we have now burned that we who fought against Croatia have captured them and put them in prison to make an exchange, so that I can go out and 730 people who came out on the 14th in Nemetin, so that we can exchange them now we have to pay them. So where do I get paid by those people who were in the camps of the Croatian state, now she has to pay the Chetnik for another one she's captured. I think it's really a level that has nothing to do with anything. I was going to read this about the law, about the items, but after this, it all falls into the water, it doesn't really make sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39780	Mr. Bull requested a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39781	Thank you very much. The Chairman has injured you, Article 238. Because you are a colleague of the Mlinarić who spoke the testimony, the truth of the Homeland War about the Croatian soldier you interrupted him and thus injured Article 238, and I expect you to give yourself a warning out of courtesy to your colleague Mlinarić. That would be minimal courtesy at this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39782	I did not hurt Article 238, Mr. Mlinarić knows I am fair and that I give everyone talk, but also when it starts to say Croatian relations in the last 70 or 100 or how much relations it is, I am obliged to say we stick to the subject and stick to the level, and because it is in your club if I do not give notice then you give me to the Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure, I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39783	Thank you, Lippa. You're giving it to yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39784	Here you go. I'm giving you a warning because it was a replica of the ministry, which was a replica of me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39785	You're giving yourself, you're not a historian.../incomprehensible/...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39786	Mrs. Vesna Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39787	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You injured Article 238 because Mrs. Jeckov was not telling the truth, she didn't stick to the subject, and you didn't give her any warning. You allowed her to speak uninterruptedly for 10 minutes and insult Croatian defenders, and you warned the Croatian champion of the Trpin road.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39788	Mrs. Vuciilovic, you think today that I gave Mrs. Jeck a warning too. I hope your club doesn't put me on the Constitution Committee and Rules of Procedure. Let's move on, if I don't give you a warning and I won't give it. Let's move on, I'd beg you, the topic is very sensitive. When the subject is so sensitive, it takes in my opinion, it's my responsibility to say it's sticking to the level. Mr. Djakic in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39789	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, 30 years have passed since the start of the Homeland War, just as many years of waiting for civilian victims of war to recognize their sacrifice and the rights that belong to them. With this law, we want to provide legal certainty to civilian victims, as we have also provided to Croatian defenders. It is our debt to innocent victims and I am sorry that some MPs are distorting the interpretation of this law because it has been produced for a long time and has passed a public debate and consultation that clearly shows the Croatian Defence Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia that it does not accept the proposals of the Serbian National Council, none. Look in the public debate what they have proposed and what is not accepted. See what the common council of municipalities has proposed and is not accepted. See what Milan Drac has proposed and is not accepted. I'm aware of all the trauma and injuries. I'm aware of all the pain and suffering. He is also aware of the HDZ's Club of Representatives, but we believe that the strong institutions of the Croatian state which have been created as well as the list of all those who have been traitors, informers, aggressors exist in Croatian institutions and thus the certificates that will be issued or the administrative procedures that will be led to obtaining the rights under this law are certainly not intended for the aggressors, nor for the adjudicators, nor for the traitors, nor for those who have committed crimes against the Republic of Croatia and its citizens. First of all, I will say that this bill stipulates who can't get everything and exercise the rights, and that primarily applies to members, helpers like I said to fellow enemy military and paramilitary troops. A security mechanism, i.e. the competent authorities will carry out the full procedure through the administrative procedure in the first and second stages. The implementing rules or regulations will provide for a more detailed and precise way of exercising the right and all necessary documentation. In addition, Article 85 of the draft law provides for the adoption of a regulation which will further develop the way in which the civil disability status of the Homeland War is to be exercised, and in accordance with the conditions laid down in this law and the procedure laid down in the General Administrative Procedure Act. Namely, when we have already heard from the promoters, the rights of the civilian victims of the Homeland War are currently regulated by the Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities War of '92. the year which so far is the least, which has changed even 12 times. Under the current law, rights are currently granted by 1,880 civilians and 145 members of the families of the dead civilians. And despite these numerous amendments to the law, many still do not cover, and rights are not tailored to their needs. The proposal of the Civil Victims Act of the Homeland War defines the concept of a Civil Victim from the Homeland War so that the rights can be achieved by the victims who could not do so under the current Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities. In practice, it has been shown that there are certain categories of victims for which all facts are in favour of civil war victims, but do not meet the formal conditions in order to achieve that status under the applicable law. The law will also cover civilian victims as a result of the explosion of mine explosives or the use of firearms in the period from 17 August 1990. By June 30, '96. It will also enable the exercise of the rights of members of the families of missing civilians in the Homeland War before they declare their family members dead. A deadline will be opened for recognising the status of civilian people with disabilities from the Homeland War on the basis of disease. The records of civilian victims will be established and measures are envisaged to improve the social status of users. In all, funds have also been provided in this respect, as I said on behalf of the War Veterans Committee. The HDZ Club supports this bill which would show our government's willingness and will to address the painful unresolved issues of civilian victims and that will improve the position of civilian victims because it is necessary and justly pass a single law that will regulate the rights of civilian victims from the Homeland War. Unfortunately, injustice cannot be corrected, but pain can be tempered and therefore we welcome the adoption of this law. And now dear colleagues and colleagues, since no one has looked back, I will read a letter that the community of the association sent this week a letter to all the club representatives only everyone ignores and bypasses. Dear Parliamentarians, we address you as parliamentarians who have been trusted by citizens to pass the laws they will live under, yet first of all we address you as citizens of the Republic of Croatia, parents, daughters and sons, members of your families. More than 25 years since the end of the Homeland War, civilian victims have been waiting for their law and the exercise of rights that some of these days consider to be rich,.../incomprehensible and very extensive. The civilian victims of the Homeland War killed families of children, families of the dead and missing, disabled and prisoners of Serb concentration camps, civilian wounded as children. In almost three decades none of their injuries, injuries, sufferings, and struggles for their own rights have learned or done anything. Many do not know that 402 children died in the Homeland War and that we have families with two and three children killed. It would be right, fair and brave to stand before them for the first time in 30 years and tell them they deserve nothing and not even respect. Their respect these days has been run over by those who defended these same civilians in the Homeland War, defending to crucify from this day forward. It is understandable that far from all the problems.../incomprehensible/... speaks of the victims of the Homeland War although in the 25 years of the existence of the Association of Croatian Civil Victims from the Homeland War they never cared about their problems, they never laid a flower beneath the monuments of the children killed in the Homeland War were parliamentary representatives of honor, being a parliamentary representative of honor and pride, implies the obligation to serve Croatian citizens. It does not mean to be deprived of any human empathy, does not mean to conclude by heart or from the constituencies far from the problems and far from recognising the needs of the citizens. The civilian victims of the Homeland War are victims who died in the Republic of Croatia, victims of the aggressors, those who have struggled for nearly 3 decades to hear their voice. They are neither victims of any other war nor from another country. The law that will be before you is not the law on which the SDSS worked, nor was it tailored by the Documenta. Their initiator is the Community of Croatian Civil Victims of the Homeland War. It was attended by two representatives of the association community and the institution of the Republic of Croatia. There's no record of civilian victims because they didn't even have their rights. It's logical how the records will be made. The acquisition of these rights is a shame to call them extensive, disgraceful beating of the dignity of civilian victims by the generals in this case generals who know nothing about civilian victims. The law clearly states that rights cannot be exercised by members of aggressor military, paramilitary troops only need to be read and understood. We don't want the political upheaval, trampling and demeaning of the civilian victims of the Homeland War they're experiencing right now from the MPs. We do not wish to deceive that the law is the work of the SDSS and that it will serve the interests of the aggressors as much as we do not want to be ping pong balls in the hands of politicians who have this appropriate theme and their own political promotion. All we want is respect for our own rights after 25 years of silence, ignoring this category of victims. We ask you, as Parliamentarians, to be the voice of reason, the voice of empathy, understanding, and not our stone one more stumbling block. Please also talk if you do not know enough about this question, namely what almost no one has done so far, and especially those who threaten to set up tents to prevent the acquisition of our rights. Please understand all mothers who have lost their own children, all children who have lost their fathers and mothers all who are still searching for missing family members, all wounded civilian victims and civilian victims wounded as children. It's people who've been torn apart parts of their bodies and parts of their lives. It's a question of human rights, of human dignity, not of political games. All who feel that the law does not need to see the light of day we call them to courage with the same conclusions to stand before the mothers of 402 murdered children in the Homeland War as well as all other civilian victims of the Homeland War and tell them that they are only a burden on the Croatian budget. The book is this which many of you read from the last letter because first.../incomprehensible/... long-seen characters Please read this book from the beginning by honoring our dignity by giving us [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]] an opportunity to make your own rights 25 years later, unsettling the issue of your own past [[Intruder: Mr. Djakić, time.]] We can't look into the future. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39790	Mr. Djakic, time, time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39791	Thank you very much. I'm sorry. I'm done.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39792	Thank you very much. Mrs Dalia Oreskovic will speak in front of the Centre and GLAS Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39793	Respected MPs and MPs, the most important concept that should relate to the concept of state, rule of law, rule of law and all forms of security is trust. Given the circumstances that this law is passed because, not even 25 years after the end of the Homeland War, there is an adequate legal framework for civilian victims in itself, which confirms that in a country where the deadline for granting civil disability status has expired since 2003, we are now reopening it as a new possibility only in 2021, so almost 20 years later, so no one can trust such a country. The state that first passed this law in '92. and since then changed it 12 times now finally admits that not all civilian victims from Homeland Work are still covered, and the rights are not adapted to the needs of this population because in practice it has proved that there are certain categories of victims who all the facts contribute to that of civilian war victims, but do not meet those formal conditions in order to achieve that status under the applicable law. I will not now enter the financial aspect of these changes and additions but into something else that seems much more important to me, which is the fact that this law has caused controversy between some parts of the political spectrum even before the draft of this law itself appeared in HS. Obviously, there was a reason why it had not been involved in the problem of opening antiquity since it was in 2003. It's already expired. It is therefore important to consider why this was so, why did we not deal with the victims of the Homeland War in full time and in full scope, and why are we actually passing this law only now, and then we need to ask ourselves what kind of interest there is in this particular political group that advocates it at this time? With all due respect to all the victims of the Homeland War, with respect for the fact that according to the Constitution, the Croatian social state must indeed draw a line somewhere, and here it is not only a question of where this line should be drawn but also when should it be done? To one rhetorical question whether it has been omitted so far to cover all those who, given the life situations they have encountered, should have been considered the Homeland War, so whether there was a failure, the answer is probably yes. However, the public interest requires that we do not make new wrongs in an attempt to correct previously committed injustices. So I return to the question why now and again I return to those who propose the law. I can't help but feel that the main motive for the proposed changes is something else, not to help the victims of the Homeland War, because voices are also heard that it's not helping everyone again. The proposed changes will raise one constitutional legal question to me, whether recognition of the status of the victims of the Homeland War is now on the basis of a requirement filed in 2021, or whether it was only created new, because if someone was the victim of the Homeland War then it became at that time, not just today, and what we are going to do with the past 25-30.? Were these victims of the Homeland War in that past period more equal than others, were some disfellowshipped, or were we in any way regressive in those years when many of them were in heaven or on earth? By listening to the comments made by several clubs, I can't say that it seems to me that we are planning to make this law again one group of victims more equal than others. And we're going back to where we started, and we're going to have a few years of new amendments and additions to the laws that we're going to put some other category of victims into regulation because there are some earlier amendments and additions to the injustices that have been done. And my question is, how long? The victim is a victim and needs to be provided both with dignity and social status, and with the way the debate is being conducted, so for the beginning of the debate between the different political actors, on the one hand the political spectrum to the other says that we respect neither the victim nor the victims, nor those who actually defended the country because they wanted a fair and fair state, a state equal and equal. Everything we're doing in this HS is in favor of that for a long, long, long, long time, it won't be like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39794	Thank you, too. Mrs. Devereaux. Sandra Bencic will now speak in front of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39795	Thank you. I have to say a little bit that I'm shocked by the parts of this debate and I'd even say by the level of aggression that has been manifested to the moments here. We're talking about civilian war victims, so people who weren't in any way responsible for the fact that they were killed, that their children or parents died. The tone and direction in which this debate was attempted, which is that the civilian victims are shared in terms of who they were killed or worse than the ethnicities or origins, is the expression of extreme disrespect for absolutely every war victim in this country. It's not an expression of patriotism, it's not an expression of patriotism, it's not in any way a policy we could call patriot, it's a cheap policy. And I know that absolutely everyone here can do better than that. And that's why it would start now with a story, tragic stories, two tragic stories that don't really differ by anything. One is the story of a civilian victim of the war of Mrs. Anne Bokun from Dubrovnik, who in her personal testimony who collected the very documents you mentioned several times here, said the following, the only day I didn't go on the road every day after work, I was walking between buildings because I was afraid. The bush was burning all over, everything was on fire, the sky was cloudy, it was raining, that day was terrible, and today I remember it, and I see it always hard when I see it, and when I see cloudy and dark sky, it's hard for me. I don't mind the rain, I don't mind, but it always reminds me of that day. That day for me was very, very difficult and fatal. I came close to home. I see a flame rising in Georgia. It's all smoke. I thought thank you God I came home. And I'm going into my street. Oh, God, they're getting my kids in the car because she didn't drive an ambulance or anything. They put my kids in the car, and they took me to my neighbor's house, they kept me there, they wouldn't let me in my house, they told me Djuro and Ivo died. That day her husband died and their underage 11-year-old son, Djuro, died, and 10-year-old son Ivan was badly wounded, and today, a civilian victim of war and disability as a result of that loss. The second story, unfortunately, is also a tragic story of Faith Solar. Her daughter, 19-year-old Ljubica, was killed about 23 hours in an apartment in the centre of Sisak with a precise shot through a window by an unknown perpetrator. So that day Vera lost her daughter. For years, however, Vera Solar has been unsuccessfully trying to interest the Sisak County State Attorney's Office and the police to investigate the circumstances of her daughter's murder and has also tried for years to obtain compensation from the Republic of Croatia for immaterial damage to the mental pain caused by her daughter's death. This is where Mr. Sacic mentioned they've already received damages. No, read the testimony of civilian victims no matter what side they're on, so you'll see that almost none of them have been able to obtain damages. And what they got after all the courts rejected them as did Vera Solar, they got the huge litigation costs they had to pay, and for which many today live on the edge of poverty. Despite the fact that the murder of Faith Solar was the subject of a final judicial decision, which later found to be a war crime against the civilian population. In the case against Đura Brodarac, Vladimir Milankovic and Draga Bosniak, in which he was eventually sentenced only Vladimir Milankovic because we know that Mr Brodarac did not welcome the end of the trial, Mr Milankovic was eventually sentenced to 10 years in prison for abuse and murder similar to this murder of Ljubice Solar, so 31 civilians. Nevertheless, Vera Solar did not have the status of a civilian victim of war, nor did she have access to any services. What we care about is whether this law and Mrs. Solar will enable what will be made possible by those civilian victims who have been killed by the enemy army because the real definition that stands in the law does not speak clearly of it and is not mentioned at all. Do the victims, the civilian victims of war crimes against the civilian population, also have the right to this status? Because what is said in Article 10, for example, so when someone lost, their child died as in the case of Faith Solar is that it is interpreted in accordance with the terms of Article 9, and the conditions in Article 9, they say that it had to be war operations such as bombing or, for example, a stray bullet, this was not a stray bullet, and hardly we could call it war operations. I sincerely hope that never one war crimes whoever committed it will be called a war operation. And that's what worries me if this law will really accept for the first time that we want to and agree that we want to live in peacetime Croatia and ensure equal access to the rights of all its citizens and citizens. Because that's what we would need if we wanted a chance for peace and if I wanted a chance for peaceful Croatia. I belong to a generation who was a kid when there was a war. I really want to live in peace. I don't want my children to be warriors, ever. I don't want to discuss their status one day. I want them to live in peace. But to live in peace, we have to work on it today. But we can't work by perpetuating, stressing and de facto building our policy on the divisions that stem from that war. Because if we don't want a new war, we have to overcome them and overcome them. I think this law is a good start, at least this first reading, and it has to be done yet to actually create a peacetime country where the victim is. Therefore, we would also like to warn that this law has not yet clearly identified the victims of torture, inhumane and humiliating acts committed outside the camp or prison, which were held by the enemy, the enemy army. So we don't have that explicitly put in place, and we know we have those cases, and Mr. Sacic talked about it. And we have to explicitly put it here because if we leave that sort of thing to interpretation in the administrative process what can happen to us is the inequality of practice that again leads to the inequality of citizens in the same or similar situation. Finally, I will say in an individual way what some of our amendments would be, but ultimately I want to highlight one more thing, which is that many civil society organisations have worked for years to provide legal and psychological assistance to civilian war victims. I personally know that, for example, there are documents, but there are other associations, as well as the Association of Victims who initiated this, that they helped everyone directly, regardless of who they were and who they suffered from. If civil society has entered the peacetime Croatia, I hope that from today on, this Parliament too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39796	We're moving on to individual debates, Mr. Zeljko Sacic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39797	Mr. Chairman-in-Office. My colleagues and colleagues. Croatian public, if you're still following us. Yeah, you see these are terribly traumatic topics, they cause controversy. What I must say to my colleague Djakic is that you tell those people who wrote a letter to you to knock on the open door, that no one in this House disputes the victim, that he does not challenge the victim of innocent civilians, regardless of their faith, nationality, sex, age and all. They're manipulations. If someone suggested that these people write it down to discredit some political option, I see they mention some generals,... themselves, mention some tents, then get fat, fat manipulated and then knock on the open door, then they shouldn't use the position of their association to help HDZ, that's the first. Secondly, second and most important, none of the Croatian sovereigns, nor the friend of the victim's fighter, the brave Croatian warrior who has been unjustly accused Mr. Chip here, Stipe Mlinarić did not want and will not, if it is not our habitat, we have sacrificed ourselves for others for five years, will not act to rob anyone of their rights. So they're lies. We'll support any attempt to compensate an innocent victim, but what we won't at the cost of raising a tent, at the price, now they're calling me, now they're calling me, we're going to protest the Ministry of Defense, now they're calling me, is it going wrong... we're not going to let the abolised Chetniks take part in this manipulation of HDZ and the SDSS. It's not Mrs. Sandra's problem that we're dealing with the innocent, no, no, not that you're saying justifiably, that they're not the victims being compensated, but that's not the problem of this law, but the non-functioning of our courts, the indetermination of the Penal Code,... proceedings, civil law, they simply have the right to do so there. But don't put it in this law, this Civil Victims Act of the Homeland War, it's an interpretation of how wide an article is. The 9th is too wide he can't include all the evils that were committed in '91-'96, he can't. Other evils that are not tied to a grenade, with a bullet, with a minefield, with rape, with arrests related to the Homeland War on the first line, and with respect to the line, should be dealt with as well as solved, through the processing of war crimes. Don't expect us to take a shortcut. In the morning, we criticised that Minister Medved has bypassed the law on ZOSI or artificialism to facilitate Croatian defenders' status, and now we want to bypass what? First-degree court, second-degree court, civil court, trial, let's leave the trial. I know it's a victim, it's a terrible fact, but if we're going to break the procedure, then let's make a deal, so say, you, you, you and you are going to be a civilian victim because that's what we decided. But then where are the rules? Then why are we fighting? Why is there a Constitution, why is there a division of power? Well, the Law on Civil Victims of War cannot solve the problems of all who Serbia is as a follower of the great Serb aggressor or JNA, Serbia, Montenegro, the rebel Serbs who created the Croats, and now we have to "clause" here to prove that the money is gone or that we have no victims of ours, ours so conditionally, colloquially. Logoras, nothing has been done against them. They're not prosecuted criminals. Ma'am, the criminals are not being prosecuted for the damage of Croatian defence victims, and now they want to jump beyond measure just because the SDSS is in a coalition with HDZ completely to degrade politically, but not innocent, we are not against but those who have potentially fired and... Croatia, we won't let that happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39798	Thank you. You have replicas stay Mrs. Vesna Vucilovic's first replica. [[Sačić: Excuse me.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39799	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear General Sacic. I was not a child during the Homeland War, and no one asked me if I wanted to spend my youth in war-stricken Osijek, so my colleague Bencic did not want to spend one day, not one hour, not one minute in the war-infested Osijek or Vukovar, or Dubrovnik, or Zadar. So let's not pretend that the Homeland War was World War I, so it was the lumbar line, so it was known there was one, the other. In Osijek, snipers took off the passersby, he's a morning civilian who goes for bread and milk and then goes to the 7th floor and has fun by killing his neighbors. It was Osijek in '91, who doesn't know here I'll remind him.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39800	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39801	Terriblely, these are the testimonies that speak of this complexity, of the tragedy, of the evil that we have experienced and how we now separate it, I am absolutely convinced that, that we all perform with the goal of reaching, to some just solution, but not to go from politics in favor of one side, not at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39802	Thank you. Mr Milanović litre.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39803	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear General Sacic, today I asked Minister Bear one question, I wasn't satisfied with the answer, but here I can, I have a chance to ask you the same question. You yourself have written 19 amendments regarding this bill, so I will repeat it to you now. Under this bill, it is possible to conclude that the abolised Chetniks and politicians engaged in the constitution of the forbidden SDS have the opportunity to consume all rights and privileges as well as innocent civilian victims. Do you think Croatian taxpayers' money should be spent on people who did not want free Croatia but did everything to destroy the foundations of Croatian statehood?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39804	Yes, ma'am. 5. ...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39805	I have to give you my word. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39806	I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We're distracted. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39807	No, no, no, no. Time, here you go. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39808	Art. The 5th law declares who cannot participate in these rights is, aide, aggressors, but it is not enough, it is not a sufficient obstacle, these are the declarative provisions, because at the same time we must have on, at the same time, aware that 26,000 armed members of the Serbian paramilitary, military, militia, village guards, abolised in the process of peaceful reintegration of the Law of General Forgiveness that have already been convicted of certain crimes, but are now legally innocent. And they, under certain circumstances, can be participated because, despite the fact that the declarative provision is such that they are not, but the subsequent law of lex enquiries or one, one other form of legal giving them the opportunity to participate, and that is what needs to be said. It's nothing else. hate against the nation rather than that. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39809	Thank you. Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39810	Dear counterpart Sacicu, Minister Medved said that there will be about 2,000 new victims of the Homeland War, and do you agree with that assessment, or what do you think of that figure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39811	That's the reason for the manipulation of a colleague and a colleague. Well, you believe it yourself, I see that Mrs. Sandra knows and knows a lot about documents, oh, about these other organizations that helped, why do you need to say that 2,500 people, then you're causing a legitimate revolt for us who know that's not true. At this point, I said there 8,200 this person can achieve under these conditions this from the occupied part of Croatia SAO Krajina and the conditions, 3,000 civilians of whom women, children, old people we don't know were armed or not, but they are considered civilians and 5.155 civilians who died, disappeared and killed, these are exact data. It's the only place you have 8,000, and on the other hand, there's over here. 28,000 and that's it. [[Intruder: Time, time]] Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you Mr. Sacic]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39812	I give you my word back so you don't say I didn't give you my word.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39813	No, no, everything's fine, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39814	Mr. Stipo Mlinaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39815	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Sacic, tell me from Art. 5. Do you think the Croatian state will be able to have this mechanism to stop these which we are talking about all the time, means people who fought against the Republic of Croatia, about people who are 2.5.'95. Fired at Klaic's hospital and on Zagreb means random rockets, those who cooked for them, who took care of them, who clapped when they fired at Zagreb, do you think the Croatian state has a register and can prevent it?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39816	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39817	It's scary, it's scary because today, Minister Medved and his associates, even their HDZ colleagues, convinced us they don't have the mechanism. And why don't they? Because they said that all these checks will be checked watch out for PLP and DLP, first-degree medical... so can't such safety assessments, security checks one doctor who's going to do an interview and perform an artisan wound injury and still deal with the whole aspect of security checks. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Ministry of Croatian Defence who is competent to implement this simply has no mechanism, Mr. Tomo Medved, I'm glad you've arrived, you don't have people to do this, you, just so you hire at least 1,000 mup defenders, SZUP, private detectives, and then you would believe you. If you're going to sign it that they're going to be doing a private detective's job... Then he can, and there's no such thing as "unfortunately," no way. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39818	Mr. Djakic. No, no, no, still, you still have a replica, Mr. Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39819	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, fellow Sacic, I'm sorry that you don't respect and that you call these people manipulators manipulated.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39820	They haven't been informed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39821	The letter was sent to your club, as well as to all other representatives, 11 county communities are a community of victims' associations, civilian victims of the Homeland War. I will read to you which, Zagreb, Zadar, Karlovac, Daruvar, Osijek, Slavonski Brod, Vinkovci, Sisak, Pakrac, Dubrovnik and Sibenik. Do you think they're all manipulated people?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39822	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39823	That's what you're gonna tell them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39824	I will, I just wanted to say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39825	Because you said stupid things at the press conference because they called you, they sent you a letter as a warning to get smart, to stand in front of people, to think with your head, not to think with your head, That's what people tell you. [[/Intruder: Thank you, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39826	Have you already answered or are you going to answer?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39827	I would now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39828	Here you go, but before you answer that, I'll give it to you, okay?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39829	I'd like to answer to my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39830	You got it. No, no, he's right, he's right. He has no right, Mr. Zekanovic. Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39831	The Honorable Vice President of HS. I think this deserves a warning. In accordance with Article 238 [[Invader Sačić: Removal from the Parliament.]] Please make sure I don't elaborate further.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39832	Okay, I don't think... you have a warning. ... No, no, don't go on. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please, you know how it goes next. [[Intruder Zekanovic: Okay, okay.]] Here you go, Mr. Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39833	What you fellow Djakic are saying is that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39834	What is it, wait, wait, wait, what is it? I'm sorry, Mr. Milanović litre, I didn't see you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39835	Thank you, Your Honor. The behaviour of the Art. In 238, co-worker Djakic's behaviour and his nervousness now demonstrates the politics that HDZ led when the Sava tent was placed by HDZ's consent that I was. I've been there almost every day in Sava, and now that someone mentions you when that same law on your part is present, it's not a problem for you. It's no problem to mention the tent when the SDP is in power, but when you are, it's a mortal sin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39836	Thank you, Mr. Milanovic. You know it's a replica, right, I don't have to tell you, a warning. And now you're answering Mr. Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39837	Thank God. Mr. Djakić would like you to invite all these associations, and I will be happy to come because you lied to them. First of all, you lied to them and you lied to them, those people knock on the open door, always in Sacic in the Sovereigns in the Homeland Movement, in all patriots they have full support. Don't show me that. However, these people do not know that we are fighting for the respect of the Constitution, for declarations of the Homeland War that you are introducing the possibility that the abolised Chetniks are misusing the rights reserved for innocent victims. That's what you're telling me. So choose your words. You lie to these people and manipulate them. And I just want to say to the lady, Mrs. Nadj, thank you, too, excellent reaction, the victim's records must be a public document, we need to know who went in, because that's the way to control it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39838	Thank you, thank you, thank you. You don't have any more replicas. I only have one short word, let's not use the word you lie, let's not, you have a Croatian language that you know much better than I do, there's a very large vocabulary where you can say Mr. Sacic, Mr. Sacic you can say things without using such heavy words, lies, etc., which is why I can go to warnings. I don't give you any warning, but I do want to appeal to keep the level. You say there are words, I won't give you advice now. Mr. Tomo Medved, Vice-President of the Croatian Government and Minister of Defence, will speak on behalf of the motionary.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39839	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. As I see this debate taking on content that does not directly support the topic, as a proposal on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and I consider it necessary to warn several of the truths that are constantly being repeated here. I'll do it again. 5. A law which clearly and unequivocally prescribes who cannot consume the rights of this law. These are members, assistants or associates of enemy military and paramilitary troops who participated in armed aggression against the Republic of Croatia. Dear Representative Sacic, as you mentioned the abolized aggressors here on a number of occasions. I believe you know very well the difference between the terms of the abolized enemy soldiers and the one that is explicitly clear and precise here. If someone has been debilitated he is in no way involved with this and he has not lost the status of members, assistants or associates of enemy military and paramilitary formations. You know very well what ablation means and what the abolization covered. She covered her responsibility from the prosecution. I stress here that people who participated for one hour or one day during the Homeland War were either aiders or co-workers of enemy military and paramilitary formations against the Republic of Croatia cannot consume this law. Let's go back to the metrics, here we're talking about the civilian victims of the Homeland War, here we're talking about the parents of those children who died in Slavonski Brod, here we're talking about that family of Spoljarić who lost two children in Grabovac. I believe that at least once in all these years you have found it appropriate to attend one of these memorials with these families and that you have heard from these families cry towards the government of the Republic of Croatia, according to me as Resort Minister, please refer this law to the parliamentary procedure we deserve it. We lost our loved ones. I believe you once attended the desks, working groups with these members and presidents, presidents of the Union of Civil Victims Associations of the Homeland War. In the past 30 days, we have attended a series of meetings in the Ministry of Croatian Defence on several occasions, where all of what they have written in this letter has been confirmed in front of colleagues of the presidents of the Associations of the Homeland War, convincing them that they stand behind each point of this law, convincing them personally that they participated from initiative to the final text of the law and public debate. And so I really ask you to respect and respect these partners, those victims, those women who represent their family members who are unfortunately no longer present, to respect and not to treat them in this way. We will explore with them as much as necessary, the Croatian Defence Ministry is an open ministry for Croatian defenders and victims of the Homeland War, and it is mostly open to you if there are any additional questions or explanations. Please focus on the important, focus on the measure and let us not deceive our public, here in no way can we talk about anyone who participated in aggression, whether a helper or an associate, whether he was convicted, whether he was absolved, so please tell the truth for the sake of our public and for the general understanding of the criteria of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39840	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your time. You have replicas here. Mr. Zekanovic has his first line.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39841	Dear Minister. I don't know if you were in the assembly when Mrs. Jeckov spoke, so now I don't know if she was telling the truth then you're lying or the opposite, if you're telling the truth she's lying. So she's too pleased with this law because all those who fell off the tractor in '95. and hurt themselves and be able to get some satisfaction financially and this will be given to them by the Croatian State. Well, you in the SDSS-HDZ coalition agree who's telling the truth here, Mrs. Jeckov, who looks like what's going to happen to those who have fallen out of the tractor and broken their heads there by Banovina, and I don't know where they don't, and you're saying the opposite thing, let's make a deal and tell them who's right, who's lying, you or she has to lie.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39842	Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39843	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, I am here on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on behalf of the legislator of this law, and therefore I ask you to closely follow all of the opening statements to read carefully everything that stands in the bill of law and reasoning. Find anything in that law besides what I specifically said here, find it for me, and then call me and then pick it up, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39844	Please don't throw it away. Mr. Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39845	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. Indeed, it is incomprehensible that your Mr. Djakic's insistence is particularly inconceivable that you are constantly trying to bring us from the club of Croatian sovereigns and other colleagues here that we are against the civilian victims of the Homeland War, against these, so you have manipulated them, so the first fact is that these women explain to them, to the children that Sacic is going to fight for the protection of their rights, but is the first to end with lies. Unfortunately, Mr. Minister, I can't trust you, I won't say you're lying, when you said 2,000 new users today, and only on the side of the occupied area of SAO Krajina are there 8,000 civilians, so Mr. Djakic tells these people about civilian casualties.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39846	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39847	Your Honor, Mr. Representative. I will repeat once again, three years in cooperation with all the competent authorities, services, institutions, police, analysis of everything that has happened in the war-related area, in the temporarily occupied area, in the free area during the Homeland War, we have analyzed all the cases, all the deaths, all the deaths, all the unfortunate cases as many on the free territory as there have been during the Homeland War. Why do we have all this in connection with the bill of this law any connection to all these deaths having to do with the death as a direct consequence of the Homeland War? I'm asking you to really figure out what we're talking about here, figure out the measure of things. Here we are talking about the civilian casualties of the Homeland War. There could have been 200,000 of them living on temporarily occupied territory, here we're talking about civilian victims of the Homeland War. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, weather.]] Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39848	Thank you very much. Mr. Frankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39849	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Government. I'll read you the names of 16 Dubrovnik children who lost their lives in the Homeland War. Andreja, Nikolina, Marija, Đuro, Hrvoje, Katarina, Romano, Luka, Šimo, Dolores, Vlares, Tonchi, Maris, Maro, Miho and Orsat. Their families have waited 30 years for this law to be called a traitor today, and their families have waited 30 years for justice to be corrected. You clearly explained how, how and how it happens with those who have committed aggression to the Republic of Croatia, they have no rights, but I'm surprised at my colleagues for calling something good, something that corrects the injustice 30 years long. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39850	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39851	Thank you very much, Reverend Frankovic. So, that's exactly what these names you've read, believe me, every day at the Ministry I get letters with the names of children killed, wounded children, a letter from a mother from Vinkovac who, for 29 years whose daughter died in the centre of Vinkovci, cannot achieve the status for the death of her daughter, so many hundreds of letters, requests, the appeal "help us" we didn't sit cabinetly in the Ministry of Croatian Defence and wrote the law, we did it with the directly involved... and this is the Union of Civilian Associations of the Homeland War, people who have participated in the analysis of the situation and proposing the content of the legal solution [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I'm so surprised why there's such a fight and a misunderstanding like this. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] and this form of resistance to the adoption of this law. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39852	Thank you very much. Mr. Stipo Mlinaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39853	Now I'm going to tell you, Mr. Minister, why there's such a fight and why you don't understand it. Please tell me, are we talking about 403 children of Croatian who died of Slavonski Brod and that in 2021 you appear as their savior, you and A. Plenkovic? Is that possible? Well, it's not possible, the law was passed in '92. Sir, don't tell me if the Croatian state paid for Aleksandra Zec, who the entire Croatian public and Mrs. Zac know about. And let her pay off. I don't mind. If she paid a million kuna, would you say that Croatian children, families of Croatian children 403 who fled, did not get from the Croatian state of Kuna? Well, shame on you, then, because HDZ has been in power for 22 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39854	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39855	Mr. Mlinarić, I'm talking about the Spoljaric family. About a family that lost two children, the youngest victim of the Homeland War, Peter and the daughter of Peter. I'm not an advocate of this kind of direct mention of the name, but since you've opened this question to that extent, yes, I'm talking about children who died in the Homeland War running away from Serbian grenades. Yes, yes, do you know why I've been preparing this law for so long? Why I worked so closely with the families, with the Civil War Victims Union, to prepare this law to give the answer that we have no faults and that we can after so many years and why it has not been passed Dear Mr. Mlinarich, why hasn't he been brought before, [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]] Ask yourself, ask me, ask all of us...... [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] /Intruder Radin: Thank you, no, please, no dialogue./ [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Yeah, I'm proposing it now. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39856	There's no dialogue, Mr. Deur is up now. ... Please. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Mr. Mlinaric, you have two warnings, don't say that. [[I'm proposing him now.]] Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39857	Dear Vice President, Your Honor. Surely, in this way, our colleagues who are trying and you have said themselves, try to impose adolescence as the basis of this law and many, unfortunately, have not been to any civilian memorial and Homeland War Association. I'm very sorry to see you feel at least a little pain and suffering. Dear friends, both Sacic and Mlinarica and all together, but we all have to figure it out together because this is not the way we treat civilians. We must obey the laws. Fred Matic then tried to do it together with Miranda Mrsic, since '94, '95, tried to make those individuals you worship today enter the law, which is why there was a protest But these laws show all the legal frameworks that can't happen. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]] Because gentlemen we have confidence in our authority and in... [[Thank you, Mr. Deur. Mr. Bear, answer.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39858	Please, time, unfortunately Here you go, answer me. [[Intruder Deur: Thank you.]] You need to press.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39859	Dear Mr. Deur, so many times we personally attended these memorials, so many times we talked to these families, so many times we analyzed how we helped these families, so many times we questioned why someone had solved this issue before. Is he getting worried? It's a complicated theme. Were there incompetence, unable to come up with a concept? Was there any uncertainty that clearly defined something like this article? 5. who can't consume rights. What were the real reasons? Don't ask me to. I now propose this esteemed home 30 years from the beginning of the Homeland War to finally resolve and close this issue, as we first passed the law last year, About the missing persons in the Homeland War. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] And so we can wonder why it wasn't brought before Last year we brought it in. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39860	Thank you very much, Mr. Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39861	Dear Mr. Minister, all the time today, and even tonight, I'm kind of having a thought about that old saying, "Share So Rule." Mr. Mlinarić, Sacic, Deur, Budalić, Djakić, you, after all, have fought side by side for this country and have been listening to discussions today all day. This law speaks of the civilian victims of the Homeland War, and I think that each of you, so here's Sacic's side and this side of Djakic lies either. We think the same thing, the fact is that the civilian victims of the Homeland War existed and that their status should be resolved on one side or the other. I don't see any reason why these bickerings and such hard words are being said here tonight. Shoulders by the shoulder we all fought for the same thing, for the only and holy Croatian country And someone who listens to us and hates us, I think tonight's the night [[/Intruder: Thank you, thank you very much.]] I think tonight is like all those who never wanted Croatia [[Intruder: Thank you Mr. Klaric]] And those who hate her when they listen to a debate like this. [[Intruder: Mr. Klaric, time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39862	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39863	Thank you very much. In any case, I fully support this approach and I am personally a proponent of dialogue. If there is any unknown after the bill has been delivered, after the explanation of each article has been delivered to the individual, after we have been here all day, each one has the right to his personal position, but the text of the law does not leave room for a different interpretation. One thing that someone is insinuating about any politicizing, and that is unfortunately the fact that on this subject and on this law they are trying to politicise and collect a few cheap political points, and that is something that is really sad and that I can't possibly accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39864	Here you are, Mr. Sacic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39865	That's right, he hurt a fellow minister this year. 238. Is it insulting, he brings in a terribly reasoned, exhaustive debate in which the great energy you've accumulated in one evening now, he's sabotaging it in a prophane of one form, insulting that it's cheap dialing, shame on you could be ministers. Shame on you when you say these are cheap picks, so I'm, uh, we're all working on our duty, so don't insult them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39866	Mr. Sacic, she was, she was, she was a replica, you have a warning. Mrs. Devereaux. Vucijlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39867	Thank you very much, President-in-Office, Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister. There were civilian casualties, we all know that. In Osijek, people got hurt when they went to work and I had a job obligation and I could have been one of those civilian victims, thank God I didn't. The workers who worked in HEP, in the Unico, in the city services, were killed every day on their 10s, and nobody slows it down, that's a fact, and I think it's clear to all of us. But as a participant of the Homeland War, you know very well that in the great Serbian aggression, those who were neither in uniform nor in any unit were involved, and all we want to point out in this debate is whether there is a register of all those who attacked the Republic of Serbia? That's the key.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39868	Thank you very much, thank you. Here you go, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39869	Thank you very much, ma'am. MPs. I will repeat, therefore, in preparation for this 3rd-year law. in cooperation with all, but to all relevant competent authorities and services of the Republic of Croatia, we are gathering knowledge regarding potential applicants' requests to regulate their status on this basis. The Republic of Croatia has a full record of all persons who were members, assistants, associates or have otherwise worked against the Republic of Croatia. But again back to the metrics, are you, which is the category, I can't figure out what category you're talking about right now, whether they're civilian victims and whether they're gonna answer the request, but they're gonna be subject to background checks, too. The Croatian Defence Ministry is the holder of the process and coordinator in gathering all relevant knowledge regarding the launch of a procedure for making a solution at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39870	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39871	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear Minister, it's very difficult for me to listen here when they break a spear through the civilian victims of the Homeland War. I also feel bad that my friends in Vukovar and Osijek are watching the brushes that attacked Vukovar and Osijek and other cities and that they were not reached by the hand of justice. I hope they will because I'll still be unhappy if they are, walking freely around a country they didn't deserve. But I think after 25 years. The civilian victims of the Homeland War must and should have their own, their own law. If an art. 5. It's not clear enough, this is the first reading, let's make it colleagues and colleagues understandable, better, and that there can't be a Chetnik and an occupier there under any question, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39872	Here's your answer, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39873	Thank you very much. I fully support it, so if we're in the making of the law in the last 3 years. I believe that through amendments and through this debate we will come to a solution. So I fully support that in no way can this law be consumed by someone who has worked against and against the interests of the Republic of Croatia. So I fully accept and believe that through the corresponding amendments here in HS, at least some structure that could be contained here in the law will be recognized. I personally believe that this law must be pure as a tear, that it must be exclusively and only directed towards the civilian victims of the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39874	Thank you, thank you very much, no more replicas. And now for collecting some oxygen before continuing the debate until 10 o'clock epidemiological break. It's 9:53 p.m. Please take positions we continue to work, work, not war, work. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 22 P.M.]] Please, it's your turn now, Mr. Stipo Mlinaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39876	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister. Although you shocked me tonight that we must be in 2021. I'm glad to be involved in this rescue of our children who have been killed by the Chetnic grenades. Mr. Deur, my friend Deur, don't tell me about the memorial because every year and every year I hear that there should be responsible and punished criminals who didn't even answer, and they're not even punished, so it's not even that monument that was taken down by the Shoskian. So let's let go of the memorials and the misery of the people that we listen to there at those memorials. I don't want to get out of my head anymore. I'd better read this, 'cause I'm gonna go too far. The Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities War, which was passed back in '92. Now he gets an improved version called the Civil Victims Act, at least that's what this government thinks. It is clear from the very name that the legislator does not understand the meaning of words and concepts. But aside and that. In Croatia, we have various registers, e.g. Register of craftsmen, voters, cultural goods, Court register of Trade Court, we also had the Defence Registry, the purpose of the register is to record the data needed to enable or disable certain rights. It is strange that in a country that has suffered war damage of 250 billion dollars, which has been calculated by our late General Praljak, there is no register of those who have destroyed the country, even more strangely that there is no political will to collect war damage to those who have caused it, but there is a strong will for these destroyers to come out to meet, so they are also financially compensated or rewarded that already who will interpret this latest attempt by the government along with the assistance of the coalition partner of the SDSS. In a new law whose name I do not agree with at all, some concepts are defined as well as who is a civilian victim. I ask the question, what does a civilian victim use when an alpha version is clearly stated in the name of the Civil Disabilities War Act? They were also listed in the military, but now they're all civilian, so I'm asking the promoter, if he considers a civilian and armed rebel Serb or a Serbian woman who has always had automatic weapons, bombs and all the other arsenals they found in them. We had a chance to see the Serbian civilians recently as they were teaching weapons discovered by an earthquake in Banovina, a man crying cleanly when you remember a bare-armed enemy who held a whole arsenal of weapons and tried it on their neighbors who now expect compensation as civilian disabled. We've also opened the sickness deadlines. No matter what the deadlines, we reward them more financially than those who defended and defended Croatia, we even give them access to the Veterans Centres. Who cares how status is acquired, the minister will prescribe this with the assistance of the coalition partner and the party he founded, knows who, Mr Hadzic SDS, who cares what will be taken care of by this law by those who have tried for years as a leech to paralyze on the Croatian budget as Mr. Pupovac, for example, in the nadal system of values. For me, gentlemen, the Chetnik who is now opening up the possibility of participating and all the rights of this law are not a civilian victim but a criminal and a bandit. For me, those who have escaped the possible prosecution for the crimes committed are not civilian victims, for me, the abolized Chetniks are not civilian victims, for me the thugs and rebels against independent and free Croatia are not civilian victims, and they should not be for you either. But you didn't do anything to stop it. This law defies the victim and the suffering of the true civilian disabled in Serbia-Montenegro and the JNA aggression against Croatia, insinuating the death of that old man who did not want to leave Croatia, so the JNA soldier or the Chetnik simply shot him. For me, it's a civilian victim and that kid who was run over by a JNA tank while they were being driven out of Knin, for me, a civilian disabled every child, woman, old man who got hit by a Chetnik grenade, mines or bullets or lost part of his body and health, and so don't wave with that Civil Victims Association, no one has anything against them. They must be compensated, they must be guaranteed a decent life and a condition for work and development. Thank you very much, even though I'm not finished.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39877	Thank you. No, no, wait, you have replicas. Yes, Mr. Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39878	Vice President, Your Honor. By listening to you, I can see that you have a great influence on political form now you might see it from where it comes from, surely the abolism does not exist for the people you have listed in your previous address, the people who have made evil for the Croatian people, the Croatian state but don't let as an honorable man today fall under the influence of various individuals and today's political parties, that we are civilian victims, that we are here and that we really all together have to pass this law because he is in the interest of the citizens of the Homeland War. Ablation for the people who committed a war crime, who participated in aggression against the Republic of Croatia because no one can do it. Don't let maybe our friend Matic, so today from our colleague Skora, and I don't know who else, fall under the influence of unrealisticity, Please, you're a man of honor and stay that way for the rest of your life because I believe in you deeply. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] that you will raise your hand for what your heart believes. [[Intruder Radin: Time, thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39879	Here's your answer, Mr. Mlinaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39880	Like this, Mr. Deur, my friend Deur. First of all, I think of Mr. Matić as much as you are sitting on the right. You're the same as Mrs. And Mrs. Crescent. Nadj who was there was Matic and former Minister Kosor who was yours and all the ministers before that. Therefore, I feel the same way about them and you, completely identical. And as for Mr. Skor, don't put him in your mouth, man was not in power one day, no law has been passed, he has taken nothing, he has done nothing, he has not given it to anyone. Therefore, do not put Matic and Škor in the same mouth because you cannot put it in the same sentence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39881	- Mrs. Crescent. Vucijlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39882	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear counterpart Mlinaric, I asked the minister's question in the replica, so I said that there were numerous participants in the aggression that were not recorded anywhere. That's a fact, we don't have that register. You were also in Vukovar, and here's what it looked like for all those who attacked Vukovar, did everyone have a uniform, did they all have a hat? How are they all, were they all part of some kind of military formation or were there really anything like Tenju, Saravas and other places where the Republic of Croatia was being attacked?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39883	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39884	Thank you very much, ma'am. Vucijlović. Yeah, you're right, it wasn't an organized attack, it was an attack by JNA, it was a Chetnic formation attack, but when the city fell, they stormed out of those villages that made it Mrs. Jeck's escaped from the Mangoslavites, from the village of Borov, from Trpinje, and from the house of the people. I'm sorry about this, I forgot the Varazdin representative who mentioned his varazdin police with so much love, but they were just looking for them because they were speaking with a different accent, they saw that they weren't Slavons, they were beating them, they were killing them, they were doing civilians in civilian uniforms, not soldiers, not JNAs, not Chetniks, they were doing their job on Veleport and Ovcara, but in these columns they were going to, they were pulling civilians. I don't know how Mr. Bear will recognize in this law if they report for example. They killed each other in a bar, so someone shot at them four years ago, as Mr. Bear will recognize, I really don't know, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39885	- Mrs. Crescent. Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39886	Thank you, Chairman. My colleague, you have pointed out that in principle you are opposed to this law because you believe that certain rights will be acquired by the Chetniks. On the other hand, they claim to have well designed the mechanism and to protect only the victims of the Homeland War. And now listening to a heated debate all day long, I have come to the conclusion as to why we as a state will be the eternal hostage of injustice from the past and why we are falling into this new trap by law. So either the problem is that we don't know how to write the law, so the ruling has misrepresented the provision, or the problem is that we MPs don't know these provisions, so we attack where there's no basis, or it's simply a problem that we all together don't see what the biggest problem is, and that's what great powers are given to a minister who can abuse them for some other purposes than those whose law is nominally defended. I hope you understand what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39887	I understand you very well, ma'am. Nuts.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39888	Here, answer me, Mr. Mlinaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39889	Thank you very much. I understand you very well, and there's my fear of being left in the hands of only one man, a ministry that I know cannot fight if SOA doesn't have a list of everyone who fought, then there's no Mr. Bear. Unfortunately, this is how everything was scarred, and you were present, and here it is said, look what the law is about, Mrs. President. Jeckov told her 10 minutes, and she told a bunch of lies, turned around and left, wouldn't listen to the other side, so is that a debate? I have no problem arguing with her all day in this House, me and her alone. But with truth, not lies. As soon as she said it, she picked herself up and left. I see who the law is being prepared for, and she made that public on TV 31. One, you can look at anyone, colleague Deur and Mr. Bear.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39890	No more replicas, and now it's Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic's turn. Excuse me, the microphone is yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39891	Dear Vice President, dear ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here I see that there is no one at the bridge club here, there is no one from the SDP club, they don't care, although today I talked to my SDP colleagues about this bill and they told me that this law is great to them, that it's identical, even fixed compared to what they suggested. That's what they say it's fixed, and you know who fixed it? Milorad Pupovac. And now here we have an absurd situation, here we have a few people who are scramblingly defending this law, this is colleague Deur, our Minister of the Medved, who I will call the heroes of the Homeland War because I think that you have been and have really done in the Homeland War as well as my General Željko Sačić or my colleague Mlinarić Cipe, of course, and Prkačin, I will forget who and my colleague Klaric, etc., let me not forget someone, there is you thank God and you defend it, defend and defend and defend it. When you get home tonight, will you look at yourself in the mirror and say we did the right thing? That's all I care about. When you get home, will you look yourself in the mirror and say we did the right thing? Because tomorrow, and this will happen and you know, some abolized Chetnik or someone who fell out of a tractor while running when it was "Storm" from Croatia, will get money from the Croatian state. And then I wonder if you heard everything that my colleague Jack was saying here? Look, not only are you, this SDSS is making fun of you, not only has Milorad Pupovac managed to make this law work as his pledge for the coalition, but Andrej Plenkovic couldn't wait and say Milorad Pupovac come on the side and don't argue about it because it's not heard yet, but then a colleague of Jeckov comes here and embarrass you and she claims it's for the abolised brushes, it's for those who fell out of the tractor, and you say the opposite. And they really humiliated you, really those coalition partners, that SDSS, humiliated you, my dear HDZ people, that he couldn't have been lower, that he couldn't have been lower, and you're aware of that. But to be honest with you about the truth, there are some good provisions in this law, and really some people, some groups who couldn't make it right on our Croatian side, I don't care about others, it sounds a little rough, maybe not Christian, but I don't care, I don't care what happened to those who were clapping on streams, who bombing our cities, I don't care. You may be more Christians than I am, but here I repent immediately in advance, but I don't care, you wouldn't give them any lip from the Croatian budget, no one, no lip, and there are 8,500 who are now on the orders of Pupovec, so you'll be buried with these demands, you won't be able to defend yourself, and that's the point of the whole story. Only tonight when you come home to the heroes of the Homeland War, colleague Deur, colleague of the Bear, so I'm surprised to you, too, if I were you, if I'd gone through that googoth that you've been through the Calvary of the War, so I wouldn't have come here to defend something inconceivable, I'd have stayed home, I'd have told Plenkovic every honor to the master, but I'm standing at home, thank you and Pupovac for everything, in office, in the chair of the minister's office, but I'd have sent a secretary here, but you were able to convince yourself that this is good. Have you been able to see for yourself? I don't know. My people, we're passing a law that the SDP wanted to pass over time, just another one, I'm going to repeat, as colleagues from the SDP say fixed it, Milorad fixed it for us. Don't do that, don't give an alibi to Andrej Plenkovic. You mentioned this HDZ, I don't have empathy for HDZ, my father, the deceased who created it, he had, but maybe when Plenkovic went away, he might experience catharsis. He didn't deserve the support of people like you or maybe he is, maybe you're exactly the opposite of what I think, maybe more than you do, there's not a shred of what was in '91, maybe, and you were heroes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39892	Thank you, time, stay, stay, stay, please stay, because you have replicas from Mr. Sacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39893	Your Honor...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39894	Yeah. Who... [[You have a breach of the Rules of Procedure first.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39895	Dear colleague...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39896	...who's there, wait, who's there? And you had a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39897	No, not me replica first.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39898	And he had a replica, he said he had a replica. Ah, Ante, sir, please excuse me. [[Ante Deur has a breach of the Rules of Procedure.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39899	How now, Ante Deur?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39900	All right. The breach of the Rules of Procedure comes sooner, please, I haven't seen you. I didn't see any injuries to the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39901	238, Your Honor. Your Honor, you certainly said the correct and the truth that you are not me, I agree with that because you can never be and you have never had the opportunity, and you haven't, you haven't been able to, because you said you were in college while your generation died from high school and college, and that's why you can only thank Andrej Plenkovic for being here, and now Miroslav Škori, so you'll probably spit in a year and a half. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39902	Mr. Deur, do you know that, do you know that it was a replica, right? The injury, it's, I'm sorry I gave you a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39903	If I may say so?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39904	You can, but you're risking a warning, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39905	You'll give me a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39906	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39907	You'll give me a warning... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39908	Oh, yeah, wait, wait a minute. I, I'm a little confused because this guy, Mr. Zekanovic, only lifts a replica, I don't know for what? ... No, he's, he's raised a replica, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. ... [[Speakers speak at the same time not understood]] Then come on, then, no, no, don't give it to you, and give your vision of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, here you go. [[Speakers speak at the same time not understood]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39909	So, colleague Deur, I must say I'm really disappointed with you, I'm really disappointed. It's so low that you're talking and doing, and actually so funny and you were really a hero in '91. And thank you for that, thank you for that, but that's what it stops for, that's what it stops for. Perhaps while you were with Colinda Grabar Kitarovic you started showing some fingers in the middle.../The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39910	Mr. Zekanovic, you won't even have the need for any more replicas because for the third time you've hurt the Rules of Procedure because you've replicated and then I take away your word for it. Here you go. No replica [[Intruder Zekanovic: So I have nothing left.]] There's no replica because you hurt the Rules of Procedure the third time, so I take your word. [[Intruder Zekanovic: Okay, okay.]] Please go to your seat. ... Please go to your seat. .../Speakers speak at the same time./... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's a warning, it's the third warning you choose to go to the scene. No, you don't have to go to a place because I took your word. [[I'll listen from here.]] I took it from you. And listen, what do you want, and what do you want to get yourself into a stupid situation? ... [[So I won't talk anymore.]] No, don't listen from there. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm taking five minutes off so Mr. Zekanovic can cool off. [[I won't, I'll listen to you from here.]] MEETING AT 22:21 A.M. All right, I've assessed quite subjectively that it's been five minutes, although, of course, the coronometer is not and we're moving on with the work. Mr. Sacic was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 22:22 A.M.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39912	The Honorable Chairman. I'm really asking you colleagues and colleagues. Please, if there's anything we can do, let's not talk. [[Please, please.]] Mr. Stipe Mlinaric to the hero our werewolf were not created conditions to say the breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I'm waiting to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39913	Mr. Sacic, I didn't realize if you've already begun the injury.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39914	I didn't, no.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39915	You haven't started yet? And what have you been doing so far?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39916	They're talking.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39917	Yeah, they're talking. Mrs. Bencic, Mr. Sacic said he couldn't speak while you were talking. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39918	Dear Chairman God bless you, thank you for bringing us in line in this nervous atmosphere. I gave an injury to the Rules of Procedure, I believe that you will accept because Honored colleague Ante Deur has repeatedly insulted, in violation of the 238th of my fellow parliamentary representative, but also of all the people in Croatia who he has handed down who... actually condemns for not participating in the Homeland War. Well, dear God, millions of people didn't participate. can't be offended and kindly please accept this [[Intruder Radin: Time, time.]] [[Intruder Radin: Time all right, all right.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39919	I mean, that's your opinion, but I have to give you a warning because it was a replica. Who's got the replica? And Mr. Sacic, now you have a replica. Now you finally have a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39920	Thank God. I was thinking of Mr. Zekanovic, so I'll adjust it. It doesn't matter. [[I don't know who's gonna answer you.]] She'll be all of you. [[Intruder Radin: Good.]] So, respected colleague Deur has repeatedly insulted all Croatian people, all minors, all of them, all those who for any reason did not take the guns into their hands and considered them citizens of the second, tenth, fifth-row insult them for not being able to defend with weapons in the home country of Croatia, and it was neither Mr Plenkovic nor the whole state, Mr Milanovic, many of the politicians were at that time not for various reasons to defend their country with a rifle. [[I won't tell you.]] But they don't deserve our insults, they don't deserve our humiliation, we have to be proud of them with all due respect. They supported us when we fought. They made us bread. They publicly supported us. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39921	Mr. Sacic, thank you very much. I let your replica go directly to the record And we're moving on. Mr. Stipan Shashin has his own argument. [[Sačić: Good.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39922	... in Osijek, there were some estimates that were done at the time based on how much bread was eaten or spent that day, there were somewhere between 15 and 20,000 people, perhaps even less, but good. [[Specially enabled.]] There were about 7,000 to 8,000 Croatian defenders out of it and there were 10 thousand civilians. At the time of the Homeland War in the most difficult moments for Osijek because Osijek was at the time in the semi-circulation, on the three sides it was surrounded by enemy troops of Serbian etc., at the time, everything in the city worked, literally everything. There was bread, there was water, there was heating, they were working phones, they were doing fuel there, even the trams were driving, really the city was working so I could say maybe in some segments better than today. At that time just about 18.12.In '91, in the basement of the Essence Hospital when I was lying on that operating table next to me was a man who had lost his leg because he hit a grenade tram in which he was driving, he was left without a leg, and that was the man who was working in the city, who was exactly what I was just saying, so that all of us who were in uniforms would be able to defend that city. The man and these people, unfortunately in large numbers did not exercise their rights, could not post the status of Croatian defender. At the time, one of my colleagues, the commander of the brigade, at the time in Osijek, said that all these people should have the status of Croatian defenders, and I agree, and then I agree with him and today I think so. Unfortunately, though, they can't be defenders, but they can get and they need the status of victims of the Homeland War. Someone here mentioned today, I think a colleague from Rijeka, that secretaries in the brigade are not, or cleaning women, sorry, in the brigade, they can't have status, or that they're not the fighting sector. Indeed in Osijek, both in the Vinkovci and many other cities where the line of the battlefield was a mile away from the brigade's command. All these people need and in some way, they have to exercise their rights and in the right of these amendments to the law are these changes that can, which enable them to somehow acquire these rights. When we talk about this and when we talk about this, I see these changes and this law in the context of the exercise of the rights of our people who were in Osijek and other cities. I don't think at all about those who have been on the other side and who I don't know can possibly exercise some kind of rights right now after 30 years. And believe me, that's how it is, everything else is a demagogy, everything else is kind of a collection of cheap political points. The second diameter I want to give you, in my village in Draž, the small one in Baranja, one family, Barishin, Matija and Eva Barishin, disappeared on the 9th month. '91. A year. Their children, Mattia and Jela, had to be declared dead in order to conduct a desert debate. Unfortunately, they're not even known where or how they ended up, how they ended up, not known at all. Unfortunately, it's very little or almost any of the journalists, the media didn't come here to record, to present the story, to write about it. It's like it's none of anybody's business. This law allows their children not to have to declare them dead in order to exercise the ordinary right or some desert debate. So I'm really sorry that here the colleagues who are with us, together these days, those months and years fought together, and now we're fighting here, I just feel like someone wants to be more Catholic than the Pope, that they want to collect some cheap political points, and believe that it's not, it's just not necessary, and that people will know that. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39923	Thank you, Mr. Shashin. Stay, you have one replica, I see. Let me see whose, yes, ma'am. Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39924	Thank you. I have a question for you. You said you weren't thinking about those who were on the other side. We didn't think about those who were on the other side when we came up with a draft of the Civil Victims Act. And when they called us out, we didn't have a record of enemy paranasages. That's why I don't understand how you've changed your mind now. So if you've been to HDZ and you've been, I suppose, the same way to pass the Civil Victims Act of the Homeland War and you've been against this law that's practically the same, how have you suddenly changed your mind? I mean, other than that, I wonder where you got that tent, I mean, now you really should lift the tent up again, obviously, because against this law they're all up here. We're the only ones who support you. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39925	Thank you very much. Answer Time, time, answer. [[Intruder Nadj: Only of course, along with the amendments you will have to accept.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39926	Let me tell you the truth, I haven't changed my mind since '91. And as I was a Croat in '91, I was a Croat in '81. And that's how I am today. I've never changed my mind. I'm not changing them today either. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 5., indeed clearly and precisely stands and writes what are the mechanisms, which are ways to protect against all those who are not to be found and will not be covered by this law. I truly trust my commander in some way, General, the man I fought with together, whom I will trust if I don't. And I haven't really changed my mind or any of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39927	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mr. Ante Deur's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39928	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Dear colleagues, colleagues. Here, it's already late in the evening and we are really discussing today two points that are not only legal but very emotional, painful because it brings us back to one time to the suffering of a people who really passed a Calvary in their history, especially in the early 1990s. In some discussions here and also on the board when we had, in a lot of things we agree, we fear, for sure, everything is afraid, that these people who are actors of the aggressor army might have a share in this law. That's why it was a big protest back then because Fred Matic as Croatian Defence Minister brought in members who were in '94, '95. I can consume the law then. All the years I've been human, as a Croatian defender and as someone who's been through all this trouble, but above all as a winner because being a Croatian soldier is a proud winner of a nation. I'm going to quote something else at the time of the U.S. Defence Minister's arrival when War Minister Gojko Sušak says hello to the minister of the winning army, and tonight I want to have my presentation. Civilian victims must be one pain that must not allow a curtain between Croatian defenders, victims and civilian victims who were under the same grenade of the aggressor who beat on Slavonski Brod, Vinkovci, Zadar, Vukovar. Today we must be aware of what we are bringing about both this government and the minister of Croatian defenders through all this work on this law which has indeed been passed that it cannot, as some colleagues have said, not the people who are appalled. If someone's abolized, he's not appalled by his participation in the occupation army, let alone the war crime. Surely by believing in laws and state bodies, I'm sure that won't happen. Let's not let the various political emotions of our colleagues that I understand on one side know that this is an opportunity and theirs to say to them today for 30 years from the war, so let's remember that there's something very good to say for them. This law was not done by documents or various associations that at that time violated the foundations of the Homeland War and the Victims, this law in its preparation as the Law on Croatian defenders was made with associations and partners from the Homeland War, and this Civil Victims Act was done with the Association of Civil Victims. All these years I've spent with these people, with these mothers, it's really one big pain. So together, just me and Mrs. Nadj once, at least for the last year of our term, we were in Slavonski Brod, and we know for ourselves how much this longing is, how much pain for those mothers who have failed to get to that satisfaction all these years. Let's be here truly parliamentary representatives of our people and let our victims consume this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39929	Thank you very much. You have a replica, Mrs. Oreshkovic's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39930	Thank you, Chairman. You mentioned Fred Matic, you mentioned the draft of his law, you mentioned that this was why they were tent protests, and listening to everything I had the chance to hear today, I came to the conclusion that everything that the tentkeepers were, and you were then objecting to Fred Matic and SDP at that time, today they stick their noses out of the Homeland Movement and the Sovereignists. Am I wrong? Now that's your defeat, that proves that you're not the political option that takes care of the victims and the Homeland War defenders. On the contrary, it's just marketing to you. You manipulate their difficult state and from the election cycle to the election cycle you create new bill proposals to preserve this one fake halo of the one who cares about Croatian interests. You have just damaged these Croatian interests most so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39931	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39932	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. If I understand you correctly, did you say that the Sovereigns and you have the same attitude? ... No, no, no. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No, I don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39933	No, no, no, you can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39934	I agree, I've already said that I'm sorry, but it's all legitimate, it's democracy, and surely you have been elected to Parliament, you have no right to your opinion, your position. I mentioned, unfortunately, that is the time of any government then headed by Fred Matic, who did not understand enough or did not want to understand what is understood today.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39935	Thank you very much. Mrs. Oreshkovic has a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but before she wanted to give a replica, I assume it's the same thing. ... I'm fine. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] If it's the same thing you know, yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39936	Thank the president for his understanding. He's been injured. In 239, therefore, Agent Deur demeans me by manipulating what I actually said. And I was clear, I said the same things, the same allegations that you referred to the SDP today tell you the Homeland Movement and the Sovereignists, not me, not me. I'm talking about your unbelief.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39937	Thank you very much. Ms. Oreshković, Member of the Commission. In 239, which you mentioned, he said, "The MP will be warned if he acts contraryly. 238, which is why you have a warning. ... But you know what it is, though, Mrs. Oreshkovic's law. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And I don't know why we treat him that way about the law. It's the law, that organic law. I'll tell you that in advance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39938	Yes, honourable MPs, I am sorry that you do not have respect for the victim or Croatian defenders in your presentation, you have an attitude that is legitimate, but I respect it, it is your right, you are elected here in the Parliament to try to present it to your voters but it should not be the principle of what is the basis of the Croatian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39939	Mr. Deur, I must take your word for it because it's a third warning. It's my record, I've never come up with three taking away words, but that's how it is. I'd like you to leave the pay phone then. You're giving up on the replica then, Mrs. Devereaux. Bad Billic or do you want to? ... I'm sorry, but no, he won't answer, he can't answer any more, but Mr. Sacic has given the replica before even though he knew that... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] You have the right to a replica just not to an answer. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39940	Okay. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, colleague Deur, colleagues and colleagues. Here I am pleased to participate in this debate, in one way to try to answer through these little more than half-minutes, which is that this man has the courage, Mr. Bear, to deal with this problem because those who tried to do this before, let's just remember only the Croatian Defence Register what he brought. He's brought in so many fights and divisions that today are hard to fix. And I can only say in the end that only the brave win. And Ministers, I congratulate you and I want to thank you for the apartments in Imotski and it is difficult to list everything you have achieved in your term. Brave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39941	Thank you very much. - Mrs. Crescent. Marina Opačak Bilic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39942	Thank you. I'm sorry that my colleague can't answer, but he mentioned something in earlier reports, so I'm asking him by what criteria do you actually measure compassion with civilian victims and you're taking part in the memorials when the SDP government, at the request of the community of civilian victims of the Homeland War, carried out the contest and began setting up a memorial for its 402 children killed in the Homeland War, a monument of "Absolute childhood" right in Slavonski Brod where the largest number of children in Croatia died, 27 of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39943	Okay. Thank you very much. It's one of the strangest sessions I haven't participated in, not chaired but participated, especially as regards replicas that go directly as I said before in the stenogram and now it's Mr. William Matula's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39944	Thank you, Your Honor. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I think it was quite clear, and from the speech of my colleague Bencic, we at the Green-Left bloc club will support the proposal of this law in our first reading. And we will do it primarily because we see this law as an anti-war law that comes with a delay of 25 years but still came to the Croatian Parliament. We also see it as a law that can contribute to reconciliation and a reduction of division in our society. This is a big step but also a sign of maturity that after a quarter of a century as a society we decided to recognize, admit and at least a little damage to civilians who were killed in the war. We would also like to warn that there is plenty of room for improvement in this law. We will support this law in the first reading in good faith that the promoter will significantly improve the current bill, remove from it stereotypes, remove provisions that can discriminate against civil war victims, extend the scope of the rights that we as a society, as a state obliged to give to those who are innocent, neither guilty nor debtors, who have suffered from war. We also expect that in the final draft of the law, mechanisms will be installed for effective law enforcement to begin as soon as possible because the civilian victims of the war have waited too long. Already the introductory preamble of Art. 1. does not maintain the true state of affairs, Croatia won the war and in that victory, we must be great, victory is a big thing, we must not be petty, we must not be vindictive. It should be pointed out here that unfortunately individuals, members of our troops who fought in the war, have committed war crimes. The fact is no longer a taboo, today there are rulings, both domestic courts and the international criminal court for the former Yugoslavia. If we want to respect the rule of law, be fair to all civilians, victims of war, that fact must be incorporated into this law, because otherwise we will eliminate those civilian war victims who have been killed by our forces, and thus we do not contribute to reconciliation, but we continue to deepen divisions in our society. War is a time when bad things are done on both sides. If we really want this law to be an anti-war law, a law that will contribute to reconciliation, we must acknowledge our own mistakes, otherwise we do not contribute to justice or truth. And we welcome the fact that the proponent in the public debate has accepted the proposal to ensure by law and the right to psychological support for victims, we believe that it is necessary to clearly install the right to full legal assistance in the law. It is unacceptable that civil war victims are referred to the Law on Free Legal Assistance. We believe that through law we should ensure the return and compensation of litigation costs to civilian victims who have lost their case against the Republic of Croatia. A number of victims who have initiated a court case to compensate for the immaterial damage caused by the death of a close person have not achieved it. They've paid high litigation costs, and some of them live on the edge of poverty today, so much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39945	Wait a minute, you've got a replica here, Mrs. President. Nuts.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39946	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleague Matula, I don't think you've been very good at estimating the importance of this law. This is not an anti-war law whose essence is reconciliation, the essence of this law has been granted by the abbey of the Minister. And yes, although Croatia has won the war, it has lost in peace in the process of building quality, independent and just institutions, and this law will be just another wheel in such a single series. You said we were going to decompose the victims, but again the law is so entrenched that we're going to damage one little bit, because in the past period, it's been a while, some people have lost their lives, some people have lost their documentation, some people have lost what it takes to prove their status. That's what correcting the injustice is about. We're doing it in a way that we're creating a new one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39947	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39948	Yes, in that sense, I thank my colleague Oreshkovic. Yes, in any case, that is why I said that we will support in this first reading and that we believe that this law can still be improved and I am still convinced that this law can help and with such a great delay that we still show true compassion, to provide people with help both psychologically and legally. You have numerous examples for people who, completely destroyed their buildings, not all buildings were renovated, so we all know that, and people got what thousand kuna they could buy two doors for, and their buildings were, their houses were completely blown up, civilians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39949	Thank you, Mr. Matula, no more replicas. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Sandra Bencic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39950	Thank you. So I said I'd be here individually, and here first I'd be brief and just say what things we think should be improved in this bill. We agree in principle that here after 30. The waitings of civil war victims finally come to order and that absolutely this issue should be regulated and ensured access to basic social and health services, as well as legal assistance. However, we also think that the definitions are insufficient and in the way they are described in this law, so, for example, as I have already mentioned the definition of a civil invalid from the Homeland War that says that this is a person whose organism is damaged by 20% due to a wound or injury, at least 20%, who received, for example, a period of imprisonment in a camp, prison and another enemy facility by members of the accomplices of enemy military and paramilitary formations, thus defining a period, i.e. other events of lack of freedom in relation to the circumstances of the Homeland War. So we think that here we should define what these situations are or simply don't put it to work, so detailedly write that it has to be about the enemy army, etc. rather than those who have been in situations of deprivement of freedom, and hence, whether it was abuse, torture or other situations, so they get 20% damage. We also believe that the same thing should be done in terms of definitions such as bombings, explosions, stray bullets, etc., so if you are already going to list, then you should either list all the situations or not go into a list but to some abstract provision, so those who were killed in the middle of using any war methods, with that I repeat, we cannot call war methods or war operations what is essentially a war crime, and that must, in this law and those victims must be covered by us. We also believe that it would be important, given that we all probably all remember the fact that during the 1990s many houses and citizens of Croatian nationality, but also the citizens of Serbian nationality were mined and deliberately damaged and not due to direct war operations. We believe that this law should include compensation for this destroyed property by terrorist acts by unknown perpetrators committed during that period of '91. until '95. We also want to draw attention to the problematic article. 77, which regulates the fact that a civil war victim has suffered or worsened that it is necessary to prove this by medical documentation originating from the time of abuse or from 30 days after delivery, this documentation shall be recognised only if it has been issued by the authorities of the Republic of Croatia. So, already, colleague Jeckov here noted that there was, of course, a situation that people went to the first hospital, that it was Bihac once, that it was across the border in Serbia, so they do not have the necessary documentation from Croatia. Also when it comes to some situations where people have not had access to health institutions due to war events, that they may not really have that documentation within 30 days of such an injury, we have to consider it, they were simply the facts of life back then. So we can't rule them out that way if they don't have it. And one more thing you'd like underhand. It seems to me that there was actually no dispute here about whether to treat all civilian war victims equally. What fears exist are fears that these rights will actually benefit those who do not have the right to do so, so those who participated in the enemy struggles against the Republic of Croatia and we agree that this should be prevented. What we disagree with is that we now do not allow all those civilian other victims who really need that kind of help because abuses may occur. Yes, for abuses, we may need to put some more fuses in the law, we may need to have good control, we may need to punish those who abuse it, but let’s not cause that to anyone who has waited 30 years to deny those rights that they should have been entitled to 25 years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39951	Thank you, Mrs. Bencic, thank you. Now it's Mr. Ante Pracchin who has been patiently waiting until now, hasn't replicated anyone, hasn't asked for any injuries to the Rules of Procedure, and here's the last one who has the right to speak with pleasure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39952	So to repeat my gratitude, if I hadn't replicated, I wasn't correcting the wrong allegations, but I'm going to look back at what my predecessors said because I listened very carefully. In fact, I'm sorry that this quality debate turns into a large amount of demagogy, pathetics right before the end. The recommendation is contained in one sentence, the complaint is contained in the title, that this title, so I listened carefully to especially my colleagues from the Homeland Movement Club and the Sovereignists, and even the representatives of the Mosta, they actually have nothing against the noble idea and the intention to make sure that the civilian victims of the Homeland War take care of them, but there is a serious fear that there is something else involved. It's actually a struggle and a conflict between a noble idea and an immoral one, so I'm not going to say an idea but an immoral opportunity to abuse this. And if I thought in the title of this bill only instead of the civilian victims of the Homeland War, we would be civilian victims of Serbian and Montenegrin aggression since '91-97, so that it would be much easier and that the problem would be incredibly easily solved. Here to look around, there is no colleague Oreshkovic I wanted to start with her, since I often commend her and my colleague Bencic as quality advocates, colleague Oreshkovic was much more quality in these two replicas than in the first part. Fellow Bencic, this was your first show on behalf of the club, there was one quality literary office, but in order to pass a high-quality court on the law that treats it, however, whether it refers to the war of Croats and Serbs, there should be a little more... that we have been fighting with Slovenians, Hungarians, Austrians, I accept the law as it is, but since we have had little knowledge of this history in conflict with Serbs, so it is a people who have been in the past 100 years, I would not now spread some anti-Serbian propaganda, but I am presenting the facts, in the last 100 years all conflicts in the Balkans have been Serbian, and others have changed. I'm not going to say it's a criminal people, but it's an irrational people, it's a people who started World War I, it's a people who introduced World War II in a completely different form to Yugoslavia, if it hadn't been for their madness of 27.7., everything would have gone differently. Gentlemen, in the Second World War on Bulgarian Statistics, there were 20 million before the war, Yugoslav 18. Bulgaria dies 20,000, and Yugoslavia million 20, 30 or million and 50. It is a people who in 1885 did not strangle you with history, attacked Bulgaria for no reason, without reason, without reason, lost the war, suffered a severe defeat, it is a people who attacked everyone alive, it is a people who, when our prime minister and Croatian government provides a hand of reconciliation, not a hand of reconciliation because there is no point in talking about reconciliation, they respond in the way they responded to the Croats in Vojvodina. So, it's something that needs to be really accounted for and, and, and, and, and, and, and, I think this law will be voted in this form in which it was proposed, and my proposal would be what I said at the beginning, if it's possible to just change the title that it's not about the civilian victims of the Homeland War, but that it's about the civilian victims of Serbian-Montenegrin aggression, so that it's acceptable to everyone because it's a law that equally concerns statesmen in HDZ, the Homeland Movement, the Sovereigns, the Most, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39953	... No, there's no replica. Mr. Stipo Mlinarić will now speak finally on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] He's gone. He's losing his right. Mr. Željko Sačić, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereignists, finally as well. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39954	... colleagues and colleagues. [[Specially enabled.]] Here we have come in one dramatic tone to yet one agreement, which is to remove all the evil languages, all the slanders from you colleagues and colleagues, colleagues were correct, from you colleagues from HDZ who wanted to impute me to Croatian patriots in the Suverenist Club and the Homeland Movement and others we want to close the door to the achievement of 30 years of fighting, victims, the calvary of Croatian victims in the Homeland War. It's lies, it's slander, it's unworthy, it's even Mrs. Bencic noticed, Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic, extremely Mr. Prkacin and many, many other colleagues and colleagues from the SDP, it's a lie, it's the first fact. We want, however, to condemn you, we resent that you have been inactive these 30 years as your colleagues from the SDP so colleagues from HDZ that for 30 years you have kept in force a law that did not allow, could have been done before colleague Vesna Nadj said, fellow Fred Matić when he went into it you could have been constructive so as to say what, which is not and we could have already been a step forward, but we are not, now we are breathing. And now you're pointing us to the huge problems that dear God business in Mr. Pracchin's Parliament is saying, justifiably you're judging us and saying that we're fools, ignorant, that we're opponents of the civilian victims of the victims, that you can't do, that's lies. However, our problem is one problem, Deur, Ante colleagues, so it is unfortunate that the colleagues from the left-green SDP block see more than you in HDZ that we want to help innocent victims, independent nation, skin color than we do not want how rightly God blessed Mr. Pracacin Stipe, Chip, Stipe Mlinarić says we do not want to get through it, and it can be. The law you've done so, unfortunately, you're not aware of, I don't want to believe that you're conscious, but in order to get in touch with your coalition partners or I don't know who in a way that you've unearthed the door to come. Well, it's not the baddest Association of Special Police of the Homeland War that I can say with the guards the greatest heroes this Croatian people has ever created, the strongest, strongest weapon we've had in our young people, they say it's a specialist, they're not the baddest Mr. Minister who's ever made an observation to you, Mr. Maras, I've said in the amendment that these legal provisions can be consumed, not the helpers of those who carried the weapons against the Republic of Croatia. 5, rather than those who were nice gentlemen of the collars white in the judiciary in the so-called, militia so-called, SDS Raskovic's so-called, who were tearing Croatia apart, and fine civil gentlemen, although his leg, arm, head, was broken by a geller somewhere when he was running away who knew where. That's what this law is all about. That's what we're fighting against. Then, then, we are fighting certain things that counterpart Matula wants to create and colleague Bencic, they want, unfortunately in good faith, but completely wrong, the failure of the legal system in the Republic of Croatia criminal law. You want a completely unnecessary victim of early crimes, the victims of terrorism and war crimes are not the civilian victims of the Homeland War. So what we're talking about, you can't put them in line with a child who was killed innocently either on the Serbian side or on the Croatian side. The one who was killed in some war crime in terrorism should be dealt with in accordance with the legal order of the Republic of Croatia, past the provisions of Mr. Bear, you cannot create in the same rank the victims of terrorism and the civilian victims of the victims of Homeland, and that is what we are opposed to, and I will tell you. So, here you go. In this month you change, two when you want. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, weather.]] Accept the amendments that make it impossible, then we'll talk. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] And to the victims of the Croatian and the rest of us give way. [[Intruder Radin: Mr. Sacic, time, thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39955	Thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you. And finally, Mr. Miro Bulj, Representatives' Club Bridge final.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39956	My colleagues and colleagues. Civilian victims don't smile and talk about them. Tribba are making laws not today, not yesterday but 20, 25 years ago, these are victims of large-serb Chetnic aggression, and not one grenade of that aggression chose its victims, did not choose the hurricane when it fell on Zagreb which is which nationality, which is which race, who is male, who is a woman but simply a great Serb aggression has done great evil in this area. And, of course, there's no parliamentary representative here against that law. However, Art. 2. allows people who are outside the border and at the same time lived in Croatia, as now those who are, for example, in Serbia, I can exercise that right. I'm not talking about civilians, I'm talking about Chetniks who attacked Croatia. How, that's the main problem, how is the Minister? And based on what other than you led the police and other institutions to check it out? Do you have a list of aggressors? That's the key question. Do we have an aggressor register? Because the Chetniks can't get this law to retire, not one. They can't win. And this law where this article is questionable, I hope that by the second reading you will change that. Nothing else here is about anything. Not even the provocations of Mrs. Devereaux. Jeckov, your coalition partners, can't get us out of this human, important thing, it's, I mean, we're all MPs here, people and those victims, I personally have a boy in Sinj who, when he was 12, 13 years old, lost both legs on a military range, a Kokuzovac polygon, both legs. Came across mines set against all conventions for fences on that range at the beginning of the war. So I know these people, I know these people. And these people are tripping to help, scraping the law, blaspheming all rights, they're victims of great Serb Chetnic aggression. And no grenade can choose its victim. It's not even... but that those who have caused, who have committed aggression and those who have done evil, we are trying to make all things ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, that these people do not exercise that right. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's very simple. And, of course, in the second reading, we're going to give the amendments. The Law on Civil Victims of the Homeland War must mention great Serb aggression. Civilian victims of massive Serbian aggression. Because Savo Strbac will turn it very quickly, in the end it will turn out to be the Homeland War, the Homeland War is the result of great Serb aggression, no one was until war, the Croats at that time were not until war. The Croatians are given the opportunity to decide on our own state in a referendum. The culprit for all of this is the great Serbian aggression. And it's just gone, there's no tension at all, and you're not supposed to be playing with this, not politically or anything, this is an important question, this is a very important question. That in any way you allow the aggressor to exercise his right to this law. And there are several articles that allow it. And there's open space because we don't have an aggressor register. I'll do it again, I said that on behalf of the club, at the beginning of the debate, that we have criminals walking and the streets of Vukovar, mostly Vukovar and other cities, their victims watching them who are raped, who are harassed, who are, they're walking. Could the institutions, the DORH, the courts, have done their job? No, they're not. Yes, the law, but there's no way to get aggressors through this law and to get this right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39957	And now Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Croatian Defence, Mr. Tomo Medved will give his final presentation, final thoughts on today's debate and let's not forget, it's only the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39958	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I want to thank you for the content debate, for the review, for the full text of the law, at some point perhaps the debate was for a certain degree in performances, perhaps a little more combative but I believe that all those who participated in the debate, that you are on this very trail as MP Miro Bulj said. So I'm going to propose these words to you. So, I urge you to really read this proposed text of the law thoroughly, and I call on you to contribute your proposals to an even more high-quality law, and I believe that our goal is the same. So unfortunately too many years have passed since the families expected from the Republic of Croatia, they expect from Croatian society satisfaction and understanding for the sacrifice they made in the Homeland War. I will repeat, this is not in any way and no one else's, absolutely nobody's influence except the Croatian Ministry of Defence and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We announced this law in 2017, we started working it in partnership with associations, we worked it thoroughly. In parallel to writing the law, we've been working on preparation. We did administrative preparatory work to make sure that the moment the law was passed, we were prepared to fully implement it so that there were no difficulties, we were prepared to limit ourselves and disable anyone who could not and should not consume this law, so that they could consume it. So on this trail, I'm going to repeat, I'm going to single out the Homeland War Memorial that is leading Dr. Ante Nazor has records of all units both paramilitary and unit so-called. The JNA or the militia involved in the aggression against the Republic of Croatia. I'll repeat, our police administrations have, over the past two years, delivered to the Ministry all deaths, all murders, all accidents, all traffic accidents that occurred during the Homeland War on the territory of their jurisdiction. If in the shortest lines, he gave you only a glimpse of what was happening on free territory, if we could see how many objects that could be tied up, which are directly related to the great Serbian aggression and those objects and those injuries that can be associated with the circumstances of the Homeland War because how else to set up an object, therefore, and a completely clear child in Slavonski Brod, the enemy aviation rockets or artillery and kills children. But we do have a situation where a child in Varazdin, in Koprivnica, takes the firearms that the father brought from the battlefield or bomb, activates and crashes. It is clear that there was no great Serb aggression, that there was no Homeland War so that there would be no bomb and that child, and that suffering is brought into contact with the Homeland War. How complex this is the subject and how over the past three years in the ministry we have analyzed concrete cases, concrete cases to produce such a text, all the time making sure that we fulfill a basic mission, a fundamental goal, make a bill that will provide an answer, damage and give satisfaction to the civilian victims of the Homeland War, but, on the other hand, limit and disable anyone who is not allowed to consume that law, whether or not members of the so-called. JNA units, paramilitary units, volunteer troops, whether that's their associates, whether it's their accomplices or any of the third parties spoken of here by Representative Sacic, who in some way worked against the Republic of Croatia, did damage. It is not easy to find formulas where all these persons will be limited in the ability to consume this law, and during that time that is before us between the two readings I call upon you all to really always have in the first person those victims and their loved ones who expect us to bring about the highest quality law and so many years later to correct that injustice. And on the other hand, even though we were here, you could see in the introductions of the law clearly refer to the Homeland War Declaration, which clearly lists the circumstances for who committed the aggression on the Republic of Croatia, so there are clearly all these clauses. But if you esteemed advocates and MPs between the two readings see a space for further empowerment of this proposed text, we will consider and analyze with one goal, I stress that we adopt a quality law that will correct injustice against the civilian victims of the Homeland War. Here I really thank you for this moment and for that first proposal to amend and supplement and for this second bill, so here we are for some more than 12 hours, therefore here we thank you for your active role, for the active debate and I believe that together we will find the best text to respond to the challenges of defining the final text of the law and to respond and give satisfaction to these most difficult victims of Homeland Work. And here I will especially single out those thousands of families whose loved ones we are looking for tirelessly today, but let us at least help them to the extent that we do not further humiliate them that they must declare their loved ones dead in order to achieve material status or in order to achieve their status at all. So let us keep in mind all these specificities, complexity, and all the complexities that were in the Homeland War, and we Witnesses know very well all these possible complexitys and all the possible challenges that are here now in the context of writing or passing this law. Here's me thanking you again and I'll see you later.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-17-0.u39959	Thank you very much. At 23 hours and almost 23 minutes, I am closing the debate and tomorrow we continue as I said before at 9.30 with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the provision of services in tourism. So no more war than work. The session was interrupted at 11:23 p.m. Mr. Domagoj Hajdukovic will be the position of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
