ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u71551	Now, on behalf of the Center and GLAS Representatives Club, the honourable representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u71552	Thank you very much, dear colleagues and colleagues. At the end of this year and at the end of this session, I am not going to talk about women's hygiene needs, although I still think that the VAT should be reduced urgently to cartridges and tampons. I'm sorry the government turned down that proposal, but I'm keeping an eye on it, and I'm anxious to see what's going to be decided on in the end. Today I'm talking about another topic that was also often in the media, as well as here in the Parliament. It's about rebuilding after the earthquake, and I can freely say it's about the greatest shame of this government, and the competition of various shames is pretty severe. But this shame of restoration is an absolute winner. It's been almost 21 months since the Zagreb earthquake, and from the one in Banovina, it's been a little less than a year, and nothing happened at that time. None of which the people whose houses or buildings were damaged would benefit from anything. The bill is disastrously bad and inconclusive, and then the law will try to fix itself with some changes, but it is still disastrously bad and inconclusive. A fund was established that serves nothing, a fund that was given to the director, then the director became HDZ's candidate for mayor because he probably did such a great job, but he refused the honor, and recently he resigned and now the fund has a director. We'll see if she continues her predecessor's practice to publicly record her own failures, to be the chronicler of what she didn't do, and that, by the way, she's constantly arguing with the competent minister. And speaking of Minister Horvat, it may not be better to waste words about him in the light of what knowledge and the ability he has shown in the restoration, and he has shown no knowledge and no ability at all, but he is therefore the champion in boast and insolence. It has been a year since the EU has paid us more than 5 billion kuna from the Solidarity Fund to rebuild public buildings. That money has a deadline. It needs to be spent by mid next year, and it hasn't even started and I've been talking about it for a year. And that's what I've been talking about for a year now, nothing serious has started working on neither that money, and in the end, those who paid us to tell us that obviously we're not able to spend money so we can get it back, which is just gonna be a shame, and I don't want to think about it at all. Not only has that money not been spent, but it's been a year since we've been paid to find out that a completely wrong plan has been made to distribute that money as well as the law. It took them Horvato, the government, HDZ a year to realize that even their plan was wrong, and the beginning of any job is not yet in sight. A few days ago, we also saw some computer images of how it should look like type houses and buildings in Banja/Banovina, but very soon after these images came the news that the manufacturers who should be making these houses stayed in shock when they saw the book of standards that they had delivered to them from the Central State Office for Reconstruction and Housing. Manufacturers argue that this book of standards contains not only outdated information but also those that do not comply with the construction regulations in the areas where earthquakes are threatened, and the reaction from the Central State Office was that it was only a framework document. Everything there is indicative and non-serious, and that's the main problem, but I'm really maybe too strict. It's not like nothing's going to happen, that's the other day, there's a tender for pyr services to promote the project of reconstruction, 2 million 160 thousand kuna without VAT, for those, so a total of 2 million 700 thousand kuna, we'll get 500 chemical and the same number of blocks, 250 canvas bags, 200 USB contacts and umbrellas, and 100 cabanas. I absolutely always advocate buying canvas bags because they're much better than plastic ones, but it seems to me that we should make an exception here and order plastics, so together with raincoats and umbrellas, they can serve people who live in containers that leak next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u71574	The next Club of Representatives will be the Social Democrats, and the Honorable Representative Davor Bernardić will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u71575	Vice-President HS, at the beginning of today's and this morning's presentation, we would like to warn of two important laws on vote in HS. The first is the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases that the government is, in fact, the so-called so-called "Population of the public". The headquarters practically admitted that the certificates were introduced without the consent of HS so-called. Covid confirmations. That's why I'm personal in early 2020. suggested that due to the pandemic, the Assembly activates the Article. 17th Croatian Constitution so that no decision would be made here without being in line with the Croatian constitution. Of course, the then president of the government who decided to hide behind headquarters as a matter of principle, if it's good I'm responsible, if it's bad they're guilty, he's decided to ignore it and since then it's practically complete action so-called. The headquarters is politically and directed exclusively towards propaganda, especially propaganda ahead of parliamentary elections. The work balance of this headquarters is more than clear, but unfortunately for many Croatian families more than tragic, 11 thousand dead, Croatia is the worst in Europe, one of the worst in the number of deaths per 100,000 people, each day a bus dies, hospital suits are full and people who would probably not survive in Germany, Poland or Sweden because of the overcrowding of the health system. So, this law is another confirmation and an attempt to iron out errors in the steps that he has made so-called. The headquarters is going after it to legalize actually illegally introduced COvid certificates. And the operation of the headquarters is from the beginning at the edge of the law because from where some kind of parallel is actually the possibility of deciding on freedom, but also on the health of the citizens without having consulted the Croatian Constitution, which is an inviolable right to protect it. So we at the Social Democrats Club think that if the law is already passed, if people are forced, then the criteria are equal for everyone by the example of the European countries that have done this and who are best at fighting the pandemic. So we ask the amendment to allow free testing for all citizens, citizens should not be discriminated against on any issue, one criterion cannot apply to churches, and another criterion applies to mail. Another important law on the agenda today is a law that represents a significant step backwards when it comes to the fight against conflicts of interest, and thus the fight against corruption. If someone in this country should be discriminated against, then it's those who have grown into corruption. This law pleases them. Why? Because it has ignored the OECD recommendation and also the European GRECO when it comes to matters of law. Therefore, the recommendation of GRECO from the 5th evaluation round was ignored to prescribe penalties for unfair politicians. It wasn't done in this law. Secondly, the concept of connected persons is closely defined, so the law is too narrow in that section and did not take into account private ties and financial interests that may negatively affect the official. And thirdly, what is most important and tragic is that, in fact, through the work of the commission, the commission does not have the right to request documentation from related private companies, therefore related to the official or members of their family, which de facto binds the hands and disables normal work and does not have any other tools available. Therefore, this bill makes it clear that the government is actually seeking to disenfranchise the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest and make it absolutely powerless in the fight against corruption. In this way, a clear message is being sent that the fight against corruption is not a priority of this government, which was also won in the 2022 budget vote when only poor and miserable 16 thousand kunas were provided to fight corruption. I repeat, these two laws are passed today without the adoption of an opposition amendment showing that the assembly serves exclusively to raise hands for the ruling and that it has actually become a completely irrelevant institution that has no real power.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u71615	Now, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Zdravka Busic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u71616	Today I would refer to the situation in neighbouring BiH currently in one of the most prominent political crises since the signing of the Dayton Agreement signed here yesterday was exactly 26 years in Paris. The European Commission's annual report on BiH from October of this year, means only a month before, suggests a marked dysfunction, poor institutions, a high degree of politicisation, corruption and eviction, so generally speaking of stagnation, no or very small progress. An additional situation as we all already know is burdening these developed, developed political actors who have been sending their messages lately. In order to help overcome this crisis, the international community, primarily the EU Commission, the United States, was actively involved in dialogue, and on an official visit Monday, the delegation of the Croatian.../incomprehensible/... Croatian states headed by the Prime Minister, Mr Plenkovic, who met with the President of the Council of Ministers and.../incomprehensible/... and of course the ministers of others in and means the College of the House of People, all.../incomprehensible/... religious leaders of the religious communities and the Croatian National Council in Mostar. As a visiting participant, I can confirm that the visit was indeed motivated by this difficult crisis I have already said about, these neighbouring countries of ours, but it was also, with great emphasis on the position of the Croatian people as constitutional in BiH. BiH went through an extremely demanding period of war in the 1990s, but also through very large post-war economic challenges. The current crisis, I would say, is the most challenging so far and for this very reason, Prime Minister Plenkovic wants to give his strong support to BiH, strong support for Croatia as partner countries, countries of friends, neighbours and, of course, to support BiH in its further accession to the EU, to at least become a final candidate. The Prime Minister pointed out that the ties between Croatia and BiH are truly unbreakable, the two countries are headed for each other, we have a long border, over 1000 km, trade.../incomprehensible/... they are, we are, inter alia, exchanging large trade exchanges we have, we are partners, we have shown a desire to strengthen economic cooperation, trade exchange further, resolving infrastructure issues, quality integration of these two countries, and strengthening cooperation in the field of energy. In this sense, in the Croatian delegation with Prime Minister Plenkovic, ministers from the competent ministries, means economy, transport, energy, which would make Croatia want to give even stronger support to peace, but also the determination that Croatia really cares and that it is concerned and wants to help in these difficult days of BiH. In particular, we stressed, as far as I was concerned, that I had already said something about it, how and how BiH could go further on its path to the EU. The president also stressed that Croatia appreciates the assistance of the international community and we stressed this, the US, the EU Commission in finding a solution because really without their help we will find it difficult to get into a situation like this. He also voiced confidence that the reform, and we have really given this emphasis, the reform of the electoral law would actually contribute to the political, political resolution of this crisis and further, and would bring some stability to strengthening the trust between the people, the constituent people in BiH and to ensure that elections are conducted neatly this year in June 2022. Otherwise, without this electoral law, without a change of electoral law, we cannot really come to a fair situation in BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u71617	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, a respected representative, Marin Miletic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u71647	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament Mr. Reiner, dear colleagues and colleagues, I would first like to welcome our citizens who are in St. Mark and who today are fighting for their children, for not only their children but for our children and for our future. Then I would like to welcome here colleagues who have stood up for the freedom and fundamental civil rights of colleagues from the Homeland Movement, fellow sovereigns, I welcome here and those of Karolina Vidović Kristo, I welcome those who are not here with us, but are with us in this story Mislav Kolakusic, I also welcome Croatian President Zoran Milanović, I also welcome Daria Zurovac and all those politicians who in this time of storm we live are aware that we should speak the truth, live the truth and stand in defense of freedom and fundamental civil rights. Don't mind my 6th grade teacher I gave her a monument, I loved her very much, I told the teachers you could write something to me then she drew me a man by the river, she wrote Marin and then she wrote it like this, life is a fast mountain river, she tries to go in parallel with him because if you lag behind the waves will cover you up. What delusions, of which lies, are the cleanest of springs and you have to go counter currents, you have to swim despite all of them for your ideals and your beliefs to the spring, so if you need to be covered by waves, cover the waves, but to the spring, don't look back at the ones from left and right, to the spring. So, today's law that will be passed here in the Croatian Parliament because the ruling majority has 76 hands, it's not just about lex Bull and punishing the insubordination. It's about introducing Covid attestations wherever necessary, you know what it means, everywhere, the possibility of introducing Covid confirmation everywhere. She wonders why we don't trust them, so because you bring all the time and you have double criteria, because with one, Minister Bozinovic said no Covid certificates will be introduced, a month has passed by the Covid certificates. What's allowed up there is not allowed to the people. We remember the good situation when some of the people unfortunately died at these funerals could have come 5-10 people, when someone else went from this world to these funerals came by 1,000, by 2,000 people, the people didn't want double criteria and that's what we have here today in Croatia. We don't want double criteria, we don't want to get into churches and I'm Catholic, that can be entered without Covid's confirmation, at shopping malls, in large malls by several thousand people, in casinos, in bookshops, and then on the other hand people can't get into the mail, people can't go to FINU to pay the bill. So we have health care professionals who have been vaccinated apparently proven to carry the virus. Covid's confirmation is a virus transfer permit. And then when people get infected where they can't get infected, where they should be taken care of by the most vulnerable groups, then everyone wonders how, what happens, etc., and they don't want to be tested and people who are vaccinated. Why? Well, because then they'd see what's going on with the delusions we're living in. This situation today in which we are four days Croatian peoples, four days still taking place to collect signatures for the referendum. Every signature you sign is important. Each of your signatures is a message to the executed Plenkovic headquarters. Every signature you sign is important because your indicator is how you treat this. You don't care if they keep jumping on your head. Do you mind if they touch our children at least ours, which we do not allow to be touched? Do you mind, then don't go to the squares, then don't sign for a referendum, and the power that is in justice and truth, so she is not afraid of the people, the authority that is in the truth, so she is not afraid of the people. Let the people say what they want. And that's why we want no one to hide five members in headquarters, a parapolitical body, here to decide by a two-thirds majority. Put your hands up, fellow MPs, let it be known how you think, let the laws be passed when people recognize you on the street to tell you all the honors or to ask you how you're not ashamed. I'm sure the time will come very soon when everything will wonder where you were in 2021, so don't be ashamed of yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u71669	The next one will speak on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, respected representative Stephen Nikola Bartulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u71670	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Today is a really important day we're going to have to make a decision soon on what's-his-name. Covid's certificates. It's no coincidence that a large number of our people have gathered in St. John's Square. Mark, I'm using the opportunity to say hello. They have a right to be concerned. So I have repeatedly pointed out one lasting truth on other subjects, which is that in various situations experience shows that states or governments cause greater harm than benefits to their decisions. It is always in the name of a noble goal, it is always something that should be in everyone's interest, so in the name of social justice, justice we ended up in hell of communism as an example that the Croatian people unfortunately had to experience themselves. But today, in the name of health, a lot is happening around us, and ruling people don't want to be honest with me to the end. So now we hear that you're thinking and covid confirms for children, that's one news all the time we hear that these measures won't apply to children, etc., but now we see that they don't. As for vaccination, I'm going to repeat some things that maybe the general public doesn't know. In an extensive analysis of over 30 million people who had confirmed the virus, so they were infected by more than 40% without symptoms, so they were infected without symptoms. It was before mass vaccination and before the appearance of the so-called "mass vaccination". omicron, so now this number will be very likely and even larger. Why am I saying that? Because with this so-called. The measures are almost impossible to contain something that's spreading in this way, and no matter what we've listened to today as the crown is defeated, I think reality is far from it. So, what did we find out in this pandemic? First, when it comes to human rights and heavy discrimination of left-wing people who are professionally engaged simply disappeared, they failed, they have no attitude, they may have feared those people, but they certainly lost every credibility, so from now on no one will really take their cries seriously on these subjects of human rights, it's past the time. Secondly, conflict of interest, I'm glad Minister Beros recently agreed with my thesis that all scientists and so on. experts who speak in public space should publish what relationships they are, especially if there are financial relations with the farm industry, I think that practice is very important, it exists in other countries. It is a matter of more culture in the media area, but I think in Croatia it must start to change. And finally, it must be repeated again and pointed out that unprecedented censorship is being carried out on social networks. So I ask the question of who will oversee, how will check the fact checkers, who will oversee them, there in some way Internet police who can wipe out the content, block, reduce reach and so on. It happens massively in countries like China, we do not want it to become a practice that will be undeniable in Croatia. The country's movement will take the initiative behind this Christmas break to change something on the plan and possibly by a legal proposal. In the end, I will use this opportunity even though Christmas is 10 days away, no matter what some European Commission officials look at it differently, we know that there is a great holiday coming from the birth of Jesus Christ, the Savior of the world, I will say it out loud, so I congratulate all people in Croatia with good will on this Christmas road, and I wish you a blessed Christmas and joy, the Savior on coming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u71671	Thank you very much. Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We would begin, as announced with the statement of position on behalf of representatives' clubs and independent representatives, so the first one will speak on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club respected representative Sanja Radolović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u71720	First of all, good morning and I thank you for your word, dear vice president of HS, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Today I will talk about amendments to the Law on Preschool Education and Education, which we had in the parliamentary debate last Friday, and the Sidro Association itself, the educators in protecting the rights of the child in kindergarten, has submitted a whole series of proposals and comments to the Council in St. Mark was held on Monday by certain performances in terms of how they don't think it should look like raising the quality of attending children in preschool institutions. What has to be said is that we are actually on an extremely large scale of amendments to the law itself, as MPs only had 10 minutes to speak on behalf of the club or only 5 minutes as individual representatives, which I really don't think is enough given 300 proposals and comments that have arrived in the public consultation itself. What has to be said is that the promoter praised that he allegedly adopted 90 comments that arrived at the public consultation itself, however, it should be said that these are all comments adopted by the declarative nature, not any fundamental changes accepted and what always the promoter boasts, when he accepts any comments, is that no financial interventions that were actually necessary were proposed on the very proposal of the law, which I really do not think is possible, if something fundamentally wants to change. What I would like to say, and what they have suggested from the Sidro Association itself, so the educator to protect the child's rights in kindergarten, and which is not accepted, is certainly what we have been warning of for years, which is to determine the single economic price of kindergartens at national level because somewhere this economic whole kindergarten is 1000 kuna, it is about 3000 kuna and it would be necessary for the state to set a single economic price for kindergartens at national level. It is certainly worrying that children in Croatia attend kindergartens and preschool institutions in a very small percentage, and we have drawn ourselves in the national development strategy that, that the percentage of children attending the kindergartens will grow to 96% by 2030, now we are about 50% and, of course, as always in Nice Ours, there are really big differences. Thus, in the Istrian county where I come from, we do have a large percentage of children involved in preschool education, while, for example, in Brod-Posavia County, it is only 18% of children. It is a really worrying data and is actually concerned by the fact that children depend on the degree of urbanisation of the place from which they come, so whether it is a rare or densely populated area, have no equal chance of attending preschool, early preschool education. Exceptional determination of a unique economic price at national level, they also require that kindergarten equipment be prescribed in accordance with ISO 9001 quality standards, since we all know that day kindergartens are often equipped with furniture that comes from donations, which is commendable, however, that furniture and equipment will be of less quality and there should also be a country to prescribe what standard it should be. The promoter also praised that there was no need to infiltrate any financial intervention, you also know that salaries on the burden of the state budget are secured for primary and secondary schools, so the situation with higher education, however, as far as kindergartens themselves are concerned, is on the back of local founders, local and regional units, and I do not think that the salaries from the state budget should be secured and they should be equated in a way that those who, for example, from Istria County now have 7 thousand kuna net wages as breeders, and in Brodo-Posavina have 3,800 kunas. I think we should handle good examples and if we don't have money for kids, then what do we have? For defense funds? For military planes? I think that you should really put priorities there, and constantly thanking yourself for wanting to listen to the profession, however, by not adopting more than 90 comments from the Sidro Association, which included 60 experts, they have shown that they don't care that our children are equally involved in preschool education and education, and that they have the same chances, because all research has shown that if children don't go and participate in preschool and early preschool education and education, they don't actually have the same chances later, when they create their careers. Also, we are about to have a second reading of the law itself, the SDP Club will surely submit a series of amendments to the bill itself, and this time I hope there will be more hearing than there will be in public counseling. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u71721	Thank you very much. The next one will speak on behalf of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, the esteemed Urša Raukar Gamulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u71750	I'd just notice at the beginning that Mr. Hrebac was first in the first place for free speeches, and then in third place. The explanation is that today is the last day of the assembly, that there are protests and that they have come out to meet him, so here we are asking you to meet us in opposition too. Thank you very much. So this is how the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided at its 83rd session of 4.11. to create the necessary conditions for the implementation of the liquidation process of the Brodar Institute in Zagreb. The decision provides for the allocation of 60 million kunas for the settlement of debts and the payment of severance fees to workers. In the light of this decision, the value of land is 120,000 square meters in an attractive place in New Zagreb, but there is no mention of the most valuable laboratory resource, not only in Croatia, but in the whole region. On that news, the Green-Left bloc soon organized a round table here in the Parliament with the superior experts from the Faculty of Engineering, FER, Ruđer Bošković Institute, the Academy of Technical Sciences, the Innovation Centre Nikola Tesla, the Regional Agency of Northwest Croatia and the Brodar Institute themselves. All unanimously find the enormous value of the Brodar Institute for Croatian Science and Economy and send a clear message that the liquidation and shut down of the Brodar Institute would be irreparable damage to Croatia. In extremely interesting and constructive exhibitions and talks, it was clear that the scientific community also has ideas and concrete proposals to address the accumulated problems of Brodarski. On the round table was also Mr Leon Žulj from the Ministry of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property on behalf of Minister Horvat, who showed a significant interest in forming a working group that will develop a recovery plan and transformation of the Brodar Institute into a national technical institute. Some meetings have begun, as far as we are informed in both the Ministry and the President of the Republic, the scientific community also has concrete proposals and desires and energy to do everything for the rescue of Brodarski, not to be allowed to repeat the fate of the Immunological Institute. At one point, it seemed even slightly optimistic that the government would go that way, but last Thursday, 9:12, without any notice in Brodarska, a liquidator arrived, sent by the CERP, the Centre for Restructuring and Sales, although only 15% of the debts, for which the government provided funds, were resolved. In contrast to the ruling by the Government of the Republic of Croatia because it was first due to pay off its debts, he informed workers in mid-day that the winding-up procedure was open, the stooge and no concrete indication of whether there was any concrete plan for the survival of Brodarski. Workers have been informed that they will not be fired for the time being, failure to get fired means workers will not receive any severance fees, but according to the workers, it opens up a small, small, small, very small chance of restructuring. But there's nothing concrete about it. It is clear that the Institute in liquidation will not have new orders for jobs, from existing rentals it is not possible to pay utility, no money for cold drive, the existing clients will leave and soon the Shipyard Institute will be in the blockade again. In this agony, it is unrealistic to expect workers to wait, they will also leave because they are not exposed to any restructuring plan that would now be difficult with the liquidation process, if that is the case at all. Or yet 120 thousand squares of attractive land are thought to make this government look much more important than the laboratory resources of the largest in Croatia and the importance of the Brodar Institute spoken of by the entire scientific community. Four technical colleges arrived at the government, as well as the appeal of the Leopold Sort seminar, which brings together 20 experts from the economy and academic community from all over the Republic of Croatia. But nothing. The government of the Republic of Croatia and Prime Minister Plenkovic remained deaf to appeals and all initiatives of the entire scientific community, as well as workers of the Brodar Institute. If, literally, in a few days, Prime Minister Plenkovic is not worthy of a dissuasive view of Brodarski, the collapse is imminent and this will be final proof that this government, as well as everyone so far since the survival of the Brodar Institute, the unique scientific infrastructure and possible take-off of Croatian science with a new technical institute, A much more important real estate business with 120 thousand squares [[Intruder: Thank you.]] attractive land [[Intruder: Thank you.]] For some dude. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u71751	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and the Workers' Front, the respected representative Katarina Peovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u71764	Good afternoon, everyone. Yesterday I was talking about exploited workers and workers in Sparta, today I'm going to talk about workers who are experiencing even greater exploitation, which is so-called. Agency workers. Such are here, everywhere, it is a neoliberal invention that forces workers to work for even less wages, even harder working conditions, and there are them in Holding in Zagreb, so I warn the same, colleagues and colleagues from the Green-Left bloc that perhaps by the end of December these people will settle their contracts and hire them on a permanent basis, but today I will talk about the Croatian forests. Croatian forests are combined with one such firm, CERTUS JOBING d.o.o. and we all know that Croatian forests are bad lords of Croatian forests, ecological associations and activists have warned about it, and we also see the Medvednica and Marjan as they look, we know that Croatian forests are lords of Croatian forests, but other than the oaks of the watermelons and beeches of the Croatian forests are responsible for another exploitation, that exploitation unfortunately those who should explore and inform about it do not care too much about the exploitation of agency workers. So our unionists who have faced, who have been contacted by workers from that Certus agency, even though they have seen things like this, said they haven't seen anything like this in a long time. So these workers at the Certus Agency work for the poor wages that gross, are grossly 5,658 kuna, but their employer reduces that poor salary for those days when it rains colleagues and colleagues. So the workers can't go to work if it's raining, then the employer tells them or stays home and takes their vacation or cuts his salary for those days when it rains. So their existence depends on whether it's dry weather or rain outside. Furthermore, Certus does not pay them at all wages or late means with these salaries, and he does not pay them at all means any bonuses on pay, there are no extras for overtime, work on holidays and work on Sundays even though workers work all the days of the week. Certus' agency doesn't pay them at all or doesn't pay them regularly means travel expenses, and it's also used by this nice planned anti-work law that allows employees to contract and contract for just a month, which, of course, keeps workers in suspense and is valued if you say something, you'll lose your job. Now, as it is possible for Croatian forests to give jobs to such law-abiding people, that's the real question. But not only are those in violation of the laws against workers but we've been investigating means that the Certus employment business means that, of course, is a classic scenario, you get a job with the state, you don't do anything like that before, you get into these big minuses even though it's hard to justify the minuses of a company that parasitizes on employment or just, just intervening between workers and Croatian forests. That's how the Certus Agency got the job right away in 2020, it had about a million kuna incomes, 5.5 million expenditures, and that's only 3.5 million kuna for employees. That is why the Certus Agency is approaching the scenario that will come to bankruptcy then close the company, but it still violates a few rules, is not registered at all on the Ministry of Labour web application, so the business with the Croatian Forests has been obtained by an agency that is not registered at all on the application of the Ministry of Labour. We asked, so Minister Aladrovic, it took him two months to answer how it was possible. Then when we asked him, he confirmed to us that there is no agency in that register at all, it was another two months since that answer, and the agency is still not in that register, he said that the state inspectorate should contact, but apparently the state inspectorate can't do anything to the Certus Agency, and otherwise the fines for this violation are 120 thousand kuna for the legal person and up to 20,000 for the responsible person. Every responsibility means for breaking the law and throwing money to privates in their pockets instead of hiring people who are clearly needed by Croatian forests is in Croatian forests. Such agency workers have about 1,000, 100 are now in the existential crisis, whether their contract will be renewed, the Workers' Front will file criminal and criminal charges against the Certus Agency. I hope you and your colleagues will join us in that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u71765	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Representatives' Club, representative Marin Lerotić will now be honored. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u71771	Your Honor, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Given the population list that will soon be published in which we will see how unfortunately our fellow citizens have left Croatia, we will see and we will be able to talk about the reasons for which they are doing so. Some of the reasons why our people leave this country are mistrust in institutions, small wages, work or inability to find adequate work to feed their family, problems with the education system, and injustice. One of the main reasons why people unfortunately leave this country is injustice. I have talked several times from this speaker about the professional problems of 55,000 students of professional studies and uncertainty about regulating their level of education according to HKO we have divided, and European practice does not recognise the difference between professional and university studies compared to the qualification framework and the continuation of studies. It's an example of injustice. Another example is the injustice, which I was talking about in the case of an Istria County student who graduated from the medical school in Ljubljana and Slovenia in the EU Member State of the same EU as we have been members since 2013. and when she wanted to go back to her country and get a job as a nurse in the health system of the Republic of Croatia, they told her that she had to take another 2,500 hours to give her a degree in Slovenia. I repeat, in Slovenia, the EU member country had to listen to the additional 2,500 hours or it had to be additionally isolated, it had to come to Zagreb, it had to pay for accommodation, survive all that time so it could work because otherwise it did not have a high school, there is virtually no SSS then it couldn't actually work anywhere like that or on some low-paid jobs, a question in which conditions I still don't count. It's another example of injustice in this country, and that's another reason why our people are leaving. And the third thing that I recently learned about is the specialistic expert study of road traffic engineers that cannot be entered into the Croatian Chamber of Technology, Transport and Transport, which would certainly be a logical move to do so and at that moment become an authorised engineer, potentially opens up some opportunities for advancement to open up its own company and thus be more prosperous and to have a better job, so that it can invest in itself, that it can make quality work and thus enable it to make a better life for itself, but also for its family. And let's just say expert study of the building can do that when we talk about his chamber covering that study. So that's another example of injustice. And what's worst about one law, one article where the university study one who finished university study can be entered in the chamber, the one who completed the professional study cannot be enrolled in the chamber, completed the same five years of study, won the same 300 ECTS points, and some in this country the doors were simply closed. For the matter to be worse, for a year and a half, the competent ministry has been familiar with the problem. It is one word to be added to the article. The 2nd law and absolutely no one is doing anything but going on the old Croatian, we are not the problem, the problem is somewhere else. And that's another injustice, but what's worse is not the doing of the competent ministry to change this situation and to change that law, it can be resolved very quickly by the procedure and that's another example of injustice in this country and I think it's my desire to actually appeal to the competent ministry to really put that law amended in the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u71772	Next on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformists will speak to the esteemed representative Dario Hrebak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u71773	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. This week after 30. has passed two important laws that we have had the opportunity to discuss and in one week two very important changes, changes that talk a lot about the last 30 years. Policymaking in Croatia and how much longer as we as a country that builds its democracy and our institutions are still coughing because only in this week with these two very important laws do we change some things that have not changed in the last 30 years. Croatia is a young country, a young liberal democracy, a country that is still learning politics and political culture, but also building institutions and somehow we are constantly changing, but these changes go quite slowly. The last 30 years. We needed to pass the first HGK Act, so the first new HGK Act. It existed in the '90s, but today we are only making any changes in terms of the functioning of an institution called the HGK which is important, which is important or should be important for the development of the economy in this country, but unfortunately in the last 30 years. She was important to herself. There were a lot of comments about HGK. I've also personally experienced a lot of blows on the subject, political shocks on the issue of the Chamber of Commerce, but what makes me happy today is that today we're going to vote what's called the HGK reform after 30. a law that will send a very clear message to the Chamber of Commerce, so that entrepreneurs will choose how and how the Chamber of Commerce will function in the future, that entrepreneurs will choose whether, as we have seen in recent years, the Chamber of Commerce supports it or not, or that the Chamber of Commerce will have to reform itself and take its position on the free market and share its fate with all those who essentially make up the Chamber of Commerce why it even exists, and these are Croatian entrepreneurs. So, it will have to share fate on the free market with all the same ones that should be supported, and I hope that digitisation, that this new law and digitisation will indeed reform the economic chamber because the law tells it practically to us that information is very important because we, as parliamentary representatives, have shown by this law that changes are being made right here, precisely in the legislative sense where we put the framework on how some other institutions like HGK will have to behave because this is how the Croatian Parliament has set out them. Another law I want to talk about is a law that also took 30 years to make sure that, in order for the mayors, mayors and mayors to show transparently how they spend Croatian taxpayers' money. It took us 30 years to do that. However, here I am thanking the government this way because it has accepted the amendments on which HSLS insisted, 5 amendments have been addressed to the procedure, all 5 have been approved and that means that all the mayors, mayors and mayors will finally be removed from the Stigm of all of us who are doing our job with honor and honesty, and I would say push all those who avoid it to do so. 50,000 kunas each individual punishment for each head of the body will therefore be for all those indisposed, I will not call them local sheriffs because really little has been offended by this local sheriff in the Croatian political arena, but indeed those who do what they shouldn't do will have to do just as well as all of us show how they spend taxpayers' money, and we here from this high house are sending a strong message that we decided to put an end to it, that we simply want that small part of those who don't do their job well, who don't care about every kuna of taxpayers, we want to simply show that they will have to work, that they will have to get used to a new system, the way of work will pay huge penalties. Not just punishments because we saw that citizens don't like to punish them in the elections, but at least they'll have to pay that financial penalty. With this, we send a strong message that we have decided to fight corruption. This message, this current law that we are going to vote on will certainly be, will not resolve corruption in Croatia but will be one big, huge shift in the prevention of corruption in Croatia and I believe that after today's vote we will take a small step, but a very important step to make our country something better than it was yesterday. Thank you to all those who will support these two laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u71774	Now, on behalf of the National Minority Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Vladimir Bilek, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u71775	The Honorable Vice President of HS, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. Usually, at the end of the year, we recapture something that's been going on, but we're also preparing some plans for a future period. So when we recapture some projects, I would like to mention one of them, which was the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, an active project of the Croatian government together with Slavonia County, which, although many have criticised, is, as far as Slavonia and its counties are concerned, a lot of good. Development, infrastructure, development of tourism, development of the economy and everything else. Of course, we know that for the equal regional development of all our counties, all parts of the Republic of Croatia need something else. I must say that I am happy that today, at a session of the Croatian Government, I have adopted a proposal for a conclusion on the draft development agreement of the north, a development agreement whose holder is, above all, the Ministry of Regional Development with seven other ministries, which carry a lot in the future for 5 northern counties, carries projects that have been in their counties for almost a year and a half, but have been in place for the last six months as their strategic plan for the development of the area to make it better for all citizens in these areas. I must say that, as far as the Development Agreement is concerned, first of all, what I would like to mention is the Bjelovar-Bjelovar County, from where Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. [[Intruder: My colleagues and colleagues, please be quiet that my colleague Bilek can normally as well as everyone else express his views, please.]] So first of all, I'd like to look back at the Bjelovar-Bjelovar County. The infrastructure project of road construction in which parliamentary representatives from our area have been in favour for years is meant by the fast road Zagreb-Bjelovar, but also by Virovitica, thanks to all colleagues who have given their support for these projects, and in this Development Agreement the north is registered meaning, that section from Bjelovar further towards Virovitica, who I believe will bring good, not only to the Bjelovar-Biogorje County but also to Virovitski-Podravska, and all the counties that are based on the Podravska highway for connecting with central Croatia. What is important to say is that in this Development Agreement and the equipment of the General Hospital Bjelovar, almost 800 million kuna will be resolved for the quality of health care of our citizens. There is also eco tourism, 360 with 400 million kuna, but what is very expensive and important to me, one of the projects and development of Daruvarske spas with 360 million kunas, which, in the next seven-year period, need to improve health tourism and special forms of tourism, which awaits us all. What's good is what's reserved and the funds, 12 million kuna for project documentation, so that everything can be ready. This way, I would like to thank the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the lead with Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, all municipalities, cities, institutions, all who have prepared this project and the basis for this project so that he can conclude today in the process. We have a big job ahead of us, I believe that in cooperation with the local self-government units, with the mayor, Mr. Marko Marusic, with the Croatian government, we can really run all of Bjelovar-Belova County together, and I am glad that with these projects according to Daruvar spas Daruvar can, wants and will remain the most beautiful small town and center of continental tourism in the Republic. And on that side, since here, today is the last day of the meeting in this year, allow me, dear colleagues and colleagues and all our viewers and citizens, to wish all people of goodwill a happy and blessed Christmas and a lot of success, health, above all, in the next new year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u71776	Thank you, too, for your good wishes. Uh, I am now asking you all to take our seats so that we can continue to work, or vote on the points so far done. We're gonna take a short break of five minutes so everyone can sit down in their seats, calm down, and we can keep working. It's 10.33 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u72172	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon. As we announced today, we go with the vote. Final proposal of the Transport Act in line and occasional coastal maritime transport, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 211. The motion is government, the debate is closed. The HDZ Representatives Club has proposed that the Assembly draw the following conclusion: 1. On the proposal of the Transport Act in line and occasional coastal transport with the final proposal for a law No. P.Z.E. No. 211 discussions were held in the first reading. 1. Any objections and proposals and opinions from the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft law. This conclusion was accepted by the government. I am putting this proposal to the vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 120 MPs and MPs voted, 114 favoured, 2 abstentions and 4 against, and thus concluded that it was proposed by the HDZ Representatives' Club. Final proposal of the Law on navigation and ports of internal waters, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 212. The motion is government, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. We had a statement on the amendments earlier in the session and the government accepted all amendments to the Committee on Legislatives. After the debate was concluded, the government submitted the amendment in accordance with Article. 199. The Rules of Procedure and the amendment tabled must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present, so I am voting on a proposal to hold a debate on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 110 MPs and deputies voted, 105 for, 5 abstentions, so we decided to hold a debate on the government's amendment. I would like to ask the now respected Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure of Joseph Bilaver to explain the amendment submitted, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u72222	... HS, respected MPs and MPs. [[Last-on speaker]] Amendment 342. is amended as follows: 1. The fine of between 5 thousand and 10 thousand kunas will punish a natural person who does not comply with rules on the rules of navigation governing safe navigation and domestic water traffic during the management of the vessel and thereby causes a shipping accident, Art. Versus 15. 2. 1. The fine of a thousand kuna will be fined for the violation of a natural person who does not comply with rules on rules of navigation governing safe navigation and inland water transport, thereby causing a shipping accident, Art. Versus 15. 2. 1. In addition to the fine referred to in Article 1 of this Article, the perpetrator of a shipping offence may also be imposed a safeguard against the ship's management of a motor-powered ship or a ban on the management of a motor-boat. Explanation. The amendment shall specify more precisely and more precisely the amount of fines in cases of causing a seagoing accident than during the management of the vessel inland waters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u72223	I thank the Secretary of State. I will now open a debate on the government's amendment, and only representatives of the representatives' clubs can participate. Any of the clubs come in? No, I don't. Then I'm closing the debate, so I'm putting the amendments to the government to vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 107 MPs and MPs voted, 97 for, 10 abstentions, which means that the amendment of the government has been accepted and becomes an integral part of the final draft of the law, and I am now voting on the final proposal of the Law on navigation and on the ports of internal waters. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 120 MPs and MPs voted, 110 for, 10 abstentions, so the Law on navigation and ports of internal waters was passed. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Roads Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 213. The motion is government, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee, representative Siniša Hajdas Doncic, representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash, Club of Green-Left Block Representatives. During the debate, the proposer's representative accepted amendments to the Legislative Committee, and they become an integral part of the final draft of the law, and the statement on the remaining amendments was made earlier in the session, and we will now vote on those which are not accepted by the applicant. Let's go in turn, the first amendment of Envoy Sinisha Hajdash Doncic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The second amendment by Anka Dark-Taritash, the government does not accept it either, we must vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes, so we are going to the 3rd Amendment of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives, and also the government does not accept. We have to vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? Nor has this amendment received the required number of votes, so we are now going to vote on the final draft of the amendments and additions to the Road Law. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 121 MPs and MPs voted, 92 for, 20 abstentions and 9 against and passed the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u80986	President-in-Office of the HS, we are looking for a break on behalf of the HSLS Club and reformers in order to reiterate once again the importance of this Law on the introduction of transparency, which will definitely, through the adoption of the 5 amendments that HSLS has made to the procedure, and the Government has adopted them, definitely introduce them, and which will force the mayors, mayors and mayors to make transparent, publicly available and searchable ways to show all citizens how they spend their money. For all those who, I would say, will oppose it, there is also a fine of up to 50,000 kuna that will be large enough for all those who will avoid showing how they spend taxpayers' money. This is, in our opinion, the most concrete move in terms of preventing the fight against corruption, especially at the local level, where it has the most. We send a strong message to citizens that citizens have the right to know how their money is spent and that politicians must finally side with the citizens because citizens really pay all of us and, accordingly, they also have the right to know how money is spent by Croatian taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u80987	The apartment is approved. Comrade Daus, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u80988	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's the thing. My colleague Hrebak gave me a bit of a boost. The law may be one way of sure, but each one of us can do it, for example. The IDS decided at its party presidency that all municipalities, cities and counties, of course, which it manages, must, therefore, be the total transparency of the budget. Some have already done so like the city of Labin, some in the process, such as Rovinj and Poreč, all others in the next few months will do so, so I call on this speaker to do so by other parties, and it will certainly, regardless of this Law, increase the transparency of the budget, or the confidence of the citizens in all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u80989	Thank you too, colleague Daus. We continue to work in accordance with article. 293.b. and we are going to vote on the amendments. Amendment No. 1 The Committee on Legislatives, well from 1 to 11, is all the Committee on Legislatives, the Government has accepted and become an integral part of the final draft law, and we are now going to the amendments, too, to the Committee on Legislatives of.../incomprehensible/... and the sorry, 11th amendment, the Social Democrats Club, this Government does not accept. So the first 10 are the Legislative Committee and the government accepts them, they become an integral part of the law. The 11th is the Social Democrats' Club, the government doesn't accept it, we have to vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We now go to amendments 12 to 23, again the Committee on Law, the government has accepted everything and become an integral part of the proposal, the final draft of the law. Now let's go to Amendment No. 24 Green-left block representatives' club. The Government accepted the amendment in the amended form by which the applicant agreed and in the amended form became an integral part of the draft law. Now let's go to Amendment No. 25, Center and Voice Representatives' Club, the government doesn't accept it, we have to vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. 26 representatives of Marin Mandaric, the government accepted the amended form, the applicant agreed and the amendment in the amended form became an integral part of the bill's proposal. 27. By 31, the government accepted and became an integral part of the final bill. 20, or 32. The HSLS and reformist club, the government, has also become an integral part of the law. 33rd, the SDP's Club of Representatives, the government does not accept, we must vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment was not accepted. The 34th Amendment of the Legislative Committee has been adopted, becoming an integral part of the law. 35. The club of HSLS and Reformists has also been accepted, becoming an integral part of the law. 36. The SDP representative club is not accepted by the government, so we must vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The vote was 119, 77 against, so the amendment was not accepted. We're going to 37. The Legislative Committee, adopted, becomes an integral part of the law. 38. The HSLS representative club was adopted, becoming an integral part of the law. 39. The SDP advocates' club, the government doesn't accept it, so we have to vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 40th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformists, adopted, becomes an integral part of the law. 41. The SDP advocates' club, the government doesn't accept it, so we have to vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 42nd amendment of the Legislative Committee, adopted, becomes an integral part of the law. 43. The HSLS and Reformers' Club, adopted, becomes an integral part of the law. 44. A SDP representative club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The 45th Last Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives has been adopted and becomes an integral part of the law, so I am voting on the Final Proposal of the Budget Act. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 126 MPs and MPs voted, 77 for, 1 abstention and 48 against, and the Budget Law was passed. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Excise Act, second reading, P.Z.E. Number 198. The motion is government, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Excise Taxation Act. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? In agreement with 122 votes, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Excise Taxation Act was passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81607	Thank you very much. With this law under cover of the protection of the public's disease from Covid is essentially a fraud. Dear peoples, dear colleagues and colleagues today you are making a decision so I ask you to know exactly who voted, who cast the vote to introduce the dictatorship of the anti-constitutional Covid certificate because by this law today you are legalizing no, you are trying to counter-constitutionally legalise without 2/3 of the majority Covid certificate. So now you're going into illegality. On this occasion, I would only tell our people that they had recently said that there would be no need for Covid's confirmation, Prime Minister Plenkovic and the headquarters under this presidency, overnight as road robbers introduced it into local self-government and other institutions without 2/3 of the majority, against the law. Therefore, folks, dear parents now speak will not need to be children of your Covid certificate, it will be from 4 January to next year, announced by the minister who is essentially the first pendrek of the Republic of Croatia, and deals with this issue that since 4 January neither testing will be possible but only vaccination. And so for your children. With this law, you're basically killing democracy, you're jeopardizing human rights and freedoms, and even the smallest, our children. This is not just a law to punish Mayor Sinj Mira Bulj and Mayor and President of the Republic of Croatia. It's the least important. So this time I call you citizens for four more days, come out and sign a referendum against Anti-Stormocracy [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Bulj.]] And the Christmas dictatorships of Andrej Plenkovic. [[Intruder: Comrade Bulj thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81608	The apartment is approved. Please, colleagues and colleagues, we now have a request for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Hrebak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81609	The Honorable President of HS. Col. Bulj was injured by Rule 238 of the Rules of Procedure, he insulted the common sense of all fellow MPs, I will not comment on it personally, but the best thing he said about everything was a colleague of Zekanovic who put a Glagow stake in the heart of this farce called a referendum conducted by the Most.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81610	You know for a fact that you've replicated yourself, you're getting a warning. This wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, so a reminder for a colleague of the Roars. Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81611	Thank you very much. A colleague, Hrebak, was injured by an officer. 238, because there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure like you said. I don't care what you, Zekanovic or anyone says, I respect all attitudes, all people, both vaccinated and unvaccinated because I am the mayor of both vaccinated and unvaccinated. But it was you who called who should have been in isolation when one hand fell, when your doctor prescribed isolation and Capak allowed Hrebac to come from self-insulation to the Parliament and raise his hand here. And that's what moved me to have this attitude. [[Intruder President: Thank you, colleague Bulj.]] against the post-supercocrats. [[Adversity President: colleague Bulj.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81612	Please, you're getting a warning this was also a replica. My colleague Selak Rasudić, please choose a violation of the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81613	Art. In 238, it is really inappropriate for colleagues to talk about the farce and I don't know why they are even excited about this law when we all know that he can get covid confirmation whether he's been vaccinated or tested, just as Mr. Capak's self-insulation was written off when it was necessary for the ruling to raise his hand for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81614	Of course you're getting a warning. It's the same replica. And, Mr. Grmoy's colleague, here's a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81615	The Croatian Constitution is injured. In 238, therefore, colleagues, Hrebak, speak of the best possible form of direct declaration of our citizens to the referendum as something that is farce and deserves to get a Glagow stake in the heart. So, dear citizens of Hrebak would take away your right to say your point of view, he would in your right to say what you think about this headquarters shoved a Glagow stake and that says what these are like. politicians and what they actually want. [[Thank you very much.]] They want to bring A decision without... [[The President's intrusion: you get, colleague Grumoja.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81616	You'll get a natural warning from your colleague Grumo. And I'm asking you now, colleague Hrebak, this doesn't make any sense right now, please let's give up because these are all injuries to the Rules of Procedure. And if you insist, fine. [[Intruder Hrebak: I insist.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81617	I've got one more chance. So my colleague Grumoja insulted me, he spoke he dared to talk about freedoms, a man who wanted on LGBT community white sheet. [[Intruder President: You have it.]] So when you talk about freedom with freedom comes always in package and responsibility, there is no responsibility in the Bridge. And I repeat, your responsibility is all told by your colleague Zekanovic when you don't trust me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81618	You get a warning from your colleague Hrebak, this was also a replica. Second warning. You too have a breach of your rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81619	Thank you very much. A colleague, Hrebak, was injured by an officer. 238, because he obviously can't do without his colleagues, Zekanovic. I'd just like to say briefly, Mr. President, when I already have this breach of the Rules of Procedure that it's very important that for all those who will kill i.e. Put a glob stake in the heart of the Croatian people that we have a list of those who voted. I would ask you to answer if we will have a list on the pages that will vote for this clay stake in the heart of the Croatian people, freedom and democracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81620	My colleague Bulj will have a list of who voted, but his colleague, Hrebak, did not stick a clay stake in the heart of the Croatian people, but used one rhetorical figure and talked about something else. So let's not raise tensions on something that's not true now. Now let's get on with the explanation of the break of my colleague Bencic, come on in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81621	Thank you. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Green-Left Block Club to actually call for reason and rationality in discussing epidemiological measures and combating covida-19. And we here on this side of the assembly are actually faced with two extremes, one extreme is what my colleague Bulj and his colleagues are saying that they are opposed to vaccination and they are opposed to any epidemiological measures we consider to be extremely irresponsible both to the citizens and to the dangers that have actually hit us globally, not only in Croatia. On the other hand, we have a HDZ that persistently refuses to apply Article. 17. The constitution of a situation that we all know is a state of emergency. So no one can say that we haven't been living in an emergency for over a year and a half, apart from fighting the pandemic, we really need to have another fight, which is a struggle for the rule of law. And we cannot reject the constitutional values and values of the rule of law because we are faced with the pandemic. In fact, our founder has just said that it is the Parliament who makes decisions, but it is the two-thirds majority. We at the Green-Left Block Club invite active citizens to be vaccinated, we invite them to follow measures, we have no problem with covid certificates either if they really act in a way that protects them from infecting the citizens, but we cannot agree that most in the government together with their majority in Parliament on their own about it. They're making decisions because you've divided the citizens right now. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] That's all. [[Intruder President: Comrade Bencic, thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81622	Stanka's been approved, so let's go now. We've got a few injuries to the Rules of Procedure. The first is a respected colleague, Selak Raspadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81623	Art. 238. Demeanor, we're called extremism, that's a notorious lie. What we have offered in this referendum is what you are also content to advocate just because you do not have enough political wisdom to be responsible for Croatian citizens and courage to support the referendum as the only legitimate and direct way to declare our citizens. You're the most common political cowards you hide behind hard words.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81624	Comrade Selak, just a few colleagues and colleagues, please. You're getting a warning one. That's another reminder, another one you won't be able to speak of anymore, but this is now turning into exactly what I wouldn't want to happen, so everyone who's looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure is actually breaking the Rules of Procedure and, colleagues Bencic, colleagues Bencic, colleagues Petrov, we can't do this, I ask you to calm down a little bit, we have our procedure in which we are working, and I ask you to try not to violate this deliberately the Rules of Procedure that some of you are doing. Comrade Bulj, you have also requested a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I warn you you have two warnings, this will be the third, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81625	Thank you very much. A colleague named Bencic has been injured by an article. 238, where she mentioned my name, so I'd tell her that I'm not the one who's an anti-vaxer or I'm a Vexer. I'm a parliamentary representative here, and the Republic of Croatia should be respected. Never... I didn't tell anyone, don't get vaccinated or get vaccinated, nor am I as metricated as you, colleagues Bencic, to support the policies of this headquarters and HDZ, and to perform according to their instructions. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course they've got someone who'll call for it, and all I can tell you is that you've lost a little bit between HDZ and your left.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81626	Thank you, fellow Bull. Comrade Bull, you're getting a third warning. Comrade Bull, third warning, you can no longer speak today. Now it's my colleague Rasdic's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81627	He's been injured. 238, my colleague Bencic demeaned us and insulted us because she told a notorious lie, so we are no extreme and no one, especially Bulj did not speak of vaccination or vaccination. So, his political cowardice, which one of the characters with the left hand option, has marked as a miserable fall on the human rights struggle test, is now trying to conceal by acting as a middle position between two extremes. Shame on you, you proved once again that you are HDZ in the old ladies, stick to the lap of Plenkovic and the headquarters.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81628	You get a warning, you get a warning. Now it's time for fellow Miletic, come in. Here you go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Col. Miletic, yes, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81629	Art. 238, thank you, President HS. There's a book that says I know your work, you're not cold, you're not hot, you're cold or you're hot. If we take HDZ as cold, for example. Antarctica, and the bridge is hot, then my colleague Bencic and we can! They're very soft, so they're hidden in their basements, atomic shelters, waiting for the storm to pass, and then they'll be smart. So, the Bridge has always been for prudence, for a rational approach, we are the ones who fight for Croatian citizens while you're hidden in your basements. [[Intruder: Col. Miletic, please]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81630	Comrade Miletic, you are being warned. My colleagues and colleagues, this has nothing to do with the Rules of Procedure that we have, you use or abuse the injuries of the Rules of Procedure and I beg you, I will now begin to give warnings during, during the speech, so that you will get more notice in the conduct of damage to the Rules of Procedure if I consider it not to be a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, fellow Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81631	Injury. 238, I want to point out once again to my colleagues that if anything was important in this pandemic, and still, it is, to be with healthcare professionals, along with the profession and what they recommend.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81632	Comrade Bencic, what's hurt, what's the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81633	You've stood openly against it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81634	You're getting your first warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81635	What we stand for is the institutional solution to this crisis in the way the constitution predicted, in which the constitution predicted it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81636	You're getting a second warning from a colleague named Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81637	Oh, no, no, no. on anti-vaxers sentiment. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81638	And now you get a third warning, I take away your right to speak until the end of the vote. My colleague Bencic, as well as my colleague Bulj, can no longer speak. Comrade Kekin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81639	So, he's injured. The 238th demeaning of parliamentary deputies, and I would like to remind you that the Bridge twice with HDZ made up most of it, and apparently now that they see that this is no longer going to the cheapest populists trying to score points.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81640	Comrade Kekin, you're getting your first warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81641	So, working...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81642	You're getting a second warning now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81643	...against the scientific community, against all doctors in Croatia...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81644	And you get a third warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81645	...against medical personnel to collect, since they don't have any content, political points.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81646	You can no longer participate in the debate. Comrade Kekin, please, please. And colleague Kekin can no longer speak today. Comrade Raukar Gamulin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81647	Since you let the Bridge speak... No, I quit. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you for keeping one here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81648	No, no, you can stay, but you can't, my colleagues can't talk. ... Okay. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Because I announced, and I said, I let go of everything, I marked the moment when I would become more rigorous because we can't just like this. Now it's my colleague Grumo's turn, here's your breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81649	Thank you. Injury. 238, fellow Kekin, Bridge is the only political option that is twice...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81650	Comrade Thunderbolt, what's hurt, what's hurt?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81651	He's been injured. 238.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81652	What, what?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81653	He's been injured. 238, will you let me go?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81654	So explain what?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81655	Well, if you let the others go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81656	No, I didn't let go, I was giving them warnings. What's hurt, what's wrong?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81657	Will you let me say it?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81658	What's hurt, what's wrong?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81659	No, well, here's your coalition partners saying I can't speak, so I see, I see they're listening, we're out, and you're holding them, hold the ladder.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81660	All right, you're getting a colleague of the bush's warning, this is your second. That's the thing with the Rules of Procedure's injuries. Let's move on, let's move on, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go,
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81661	Dear President, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Social Democrats Club to warn that HS has been marginalized again, so by ruling again, HS, you pushed him aside, you're trying to make an institution whose only role is to raise a hand for the ruling. So, you don't listen to the people's voice, you don't listen to the opposition's voice, because how else do you explain that Croatia is the worst in Europe by the number of deaths, we have over 11 thousand dead of covid and you haven't accepted any opposition amendment. You have refused our amendment to the Social Democrats Club that we propose that testing for all citizens in Croatia be free of charge. This is what many European countries have, and you have decided instead to discriminate people, so you discriminate people, you share them because students have to pay for testing, teachers don't have to pay for testing, the poor have to pay for testing, the rich don't have to pay for testing. COVID certificates are not needed in the church but COVID certificates are therefore required in the post office. So, the only one you should have discriminated against is those who have grown unfortunately into corruption in Croatia and you have decided to iron them out, because you are actually working on a single body from the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest, which is how you tie your hands. The law you are trying to vote today has no support for either the European GRECO or the world OECD, and since it is clear in which direction your fight is heading to fight corruption that you are only spending 16 000 kunas in 2022. I would like to point out once again that even by holding the quorum we do not want to participate in this farce in the Croatian Parliament that you are trying to defuse this institution which is the cornerstone of Croatian statehood.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81662	Okay, I don't just know if the quorum is in this law or the other law. Please, now it's time for your colleague, Mrak-Taritash, come in. [[Invader Bernardić: Both with each other.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81663	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Something that goes wrong can't end well. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Centre and Glass Club. Why did we even have to discuss this law? Because you didn't want to listen, because you did everything the way you did, and when you came to the wall, you didn't know any further. When I say you, I mean HDZ along with my coalition partners. This isn't the law we vote on or vote on or no matter how we deal with COVID certificates, you've come to the wall. In Croatia, a city the size of Makarska died from the crown. You didn't do it right at first. A year ago in the late evening we warned you and said the nation should be split. If the nation had been split, so we wouldn't have talked about COVID's certificates yes or no, how, where and why and under what conditions, because you didn't do the job properly in your boast, in your own way and when you don't need anyone, and when you do, then you come to parliament. You came to parliament too late, you were supposed to come to parliament a year ago and do your job right with this. This is one of the greatest tasks and Minister Beros and this government. How to stand up to something called the Crown, which is between us and what lives among us. And while we're at it, and we're very much at liberty, let's understand what personal freedom is. Personal freedom is a right to choose but until we threaten the freedom of the other but in this way and through the way in which you transferred responsibility, you did actually all the time endangering the freedom of someone else. Therefore, the HDZ colleagues, this is not a vote on this law, this is all you want to iron out everything you've done wrong, and you've been doing it wrong all along, and the citizens have equally responded to what they think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81664	The apartment is approved. Comrade Bartulica, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81665	Thank you. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Homeland Movement Club. You see, a lot is said on this subject. I will repeat once again that however bitter it may be. Experience shows that governments around the world not only our own, they often cause more harm to some benefit by their decisions. We've heard that the virus has already been defeated, but it's not possible to contain it with these measures, let alone win. So, the situation as it is, once again for the public's sake, I will repeat that on behalf of all of us, the EU has ordered 4.6 billion doses of vaccines, so about 100 billion euros per vaccine will be spent. We haven't told anyone or advised what to do, so each individual has to take care of his own health personally, I think that's the fundamental principle, however he thinks best, but the number of deaths is high because the risk groups, the elderly are not sufficiently vaccinated, there's a government appointment, there's a headquarters scheduled. Now they're putting an emphasis on the kids, now they're talking all of a sudden about COVID certificates for the kids. So we see we're on a very slippery ground. Once again, I'm going to say that the many organizations that deal with human rights have completely failed, gone, no attitude, no silence. Therefore, their credibility has been spent and no one will be able to take them seriously in the future, whatever the subject may be. So, the Homeland Movement will be against this law, I think it's too late for this debate, and we've led the regular route, we've tried to collect 1/3 signatures to come up this topic of two-thirds vote per article. 17th row, other clubs didn't want to sign it. So that about their... [[Intruder President: Thank you, colleague Bartulica.]] There's a lot of dishonesty. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81666	We're going to the sixth hearing or the sixth request for a break, colleague Reiner, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81667	Dear Mr. President, although I'm not a lawyer and some lawyers here say otherwise or wrong, let's first clear up what the Constitution says, Art. Article 16 17. Article 16 states: “Freedom and rights can only be limited by law to protect the freedom and rights of other people and legal order, public morality and health.” The 16th article discusses health. Article 17 states: At a time of war or immediate threat, independence and unity, etc., individual freedoms from the right guaranteed by the Constitution may be limited, etc. and various natural disasters, therefore not health. Health is said to be written in art. 16, it is false to claim that an article should be called upon. And we know why they want to call on the article. 17, because Art. 17. requires a two-thirds majority and expect to get some political points by forcing us or trying to force us to accept the article. 17. who does not talk about health instead of art. The 16th that speaks of health. And now a few other things. So it's scientifically proven that vaccination is definitely one of the greatest achievements in medicine, that saved millions of people. The nonsense we hear in the media and here on how experimental it is, how strange it is, how it is something unusual after billions of people have been vaccinated in the world is literally nonsense. Stories that Croatia with the highest number of deaths are false And that's what people need to know. [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81668	Thank you, colleague Reiner. The break will be granted. We now again have requests for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. There are two representatives of his colleagues, Grmoja and Selak Rasdić, who already have two warnings. Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81669	Thank you. Article 238, so it is quite clear that these decisions concerning human rights and freedoms must be made by 2/3 of the majority, that you and your compromised majority cannot in this way...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81670	You know as well as I do that this is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, it's a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81671	Why me, so...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81672	So I took everything away, I took the word already...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81673	So you keep saying nothing to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81674	You get, you get a third warning, and I take your word for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81675	So this is just an indicator of dear people as afraid of the referendum, I invite you all to come out...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81676	Come on, sit down, sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81677	...and to this headquarters, to this will we say enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81678	Sit down, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81679	I invite you all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81680	Let's sit down so I don't have to exclude you from the work of the assembly. Now it's time for my colleague, Rasputic Selak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81681	Article 238, quoted the Constitution by those who carry out illegal violence, first make decisions, and then legalize them in the assembly. One of the most embarrassing days in Croatian Day is ever today And you will bring this assembly down to the end. [[Intruder: colleagues Selak Rasudić...]] and legalize illegal violence. [[Intruder: You're getting a warning.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81682	You're getting 3 warnings and unfortunately you can't speak anymore. Comrade Dretar, you are without warning, try to survive.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81683	Make sure I get it. Article 238, Honorable Representative Reiner said the word of stupidity which I consider to be of course an insult to the MPs. He would agree with many MPs and MPs today that this is one of the most difficult days in the history of the Croatian Parliament I have come from postoperative treatment here through the cordon of well-armed police who protects you from the Croatian people and what they want to tell you. [[Intruder: Comrade Dretar...]] Let's be ashamed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81684	Comrade Dretar, thank you very much. So this is how you went well, you pointed out one word that your colleague Reiner used and maybe it's not appropriate, so I waited for you to continue to elaborate, but you went into replica now so you get a warning. A colleague of Miletić, Here you go. [[Intruder: Fear the referendum.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81685	Article 238, President of the Croatian Parliament Article 238, I don't think it's right that despite the different attitudes that we are being insulted here, and on the other hand, here I commend my colleague Reiner and I think it's really important that we talk here in the Croatian Parliament and We make decisions 2/3 of the majority. [[Agreement: Col. Miletić...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81686	... you get a warning, so don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81687	Intruder: You are afraid of the referendum./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81688	You're getting a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81689	I'm for your community and I prayed that 2/3 of the majority of us make decisions here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81690	Thank you very much. You're getting a warning and I'm gonna have to rule you out now. Let's move on, are you colleagues of Ursha Raukar retreating? Okay. Now it's time for a fellow bud. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81691	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I do not know about the historical experience that matters of national security or war dangers or public health threats are now being decided by the referendum. I don't know. And I don't know how many circumstances it is to create a management crisis in society that some colleagues warn about, and then attack our mission here along with experts from different professions and with the government. Instead, we debate the inability to manage this crisis despite masking, despite the possession of the vaccine, despite the possession of hospital beds and the possession of doctors. We want all that we have not in the name of God’s human freedoms and the rights of those who are otherwise called upon to restrict human freedoms and rights in all other circumstances. They invite people to be free to get sick. They invite people to be free to die. They invite people to be free to collapse our hospitals. And that we can't finally sit here like we couldn't sit at the beginning of the academy, the pandemic. Is that freedom? It's not. It's actually love of death. And those who advocate, advocate such a relationship or exploit the absence of adequate management policy. With those who say we should sit down and talk I agree as we sat down at the beginning we should sit down and now because this will not end tomorrow but will last This is a bad disease, like the bad intentions. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] our colleagues with the abuse of disease politically [[Intruder: Thank you.]] They get political points. [[Employer: A colleague of Pupovac.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81692	Dear Pupovac, please get in, get in a warning. [[Intruder: People are afraid, referendum.]] Wait a minute, you're getting a warning because you've gone too far and you haven't listened to me. We have a violation of the Rules of Procedures of counterpart Petrov and counterpart Rapudic, some of whom appear who no longer have a first vote so I can't speak, so here's a colleague of Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81693	Mr. Pupovac, I expected the voice of reason, not lies, but only lies. And I invite people to come to the referendum, you know why because when you enslave all institutions how you enslaved them The only possibility for people to make a statement and make a decision is a referendum. [[Employer: colleague Petrov.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81694	You're getting a warning from a colleague of Petrov's.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81695	That's the only thing you can't control. Lie and be ashamed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81696	You're getting a warning number two. So you didn't even say what was hurt. Comrade Rasdic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81697	I give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81698	Thank you. A colleague, Spajic, also gave up his colleague Spajic. Then we have a colleague Fabianic, here's a colleague of Pupovac, a colleague of Grmoja you can't anymore, nor can a colleague of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81699	I believe that the injured rulesman who predicts that this law should still be voted by a two-thirds majority. It's my personal so I don't take lessons. of any colleague because two-thirds is... [[Intruder president: colleague Fabianic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81700	.../Intruder President: You're getting your first warning./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81701	What are you laughing at in HDZ?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81702	Comrade Bulj, please don't throw it away. My colleagues, Mr. Tarritash, here you are, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81703	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. I refer to the order of the article. Is it the 33rd Rules of Procedure that I am interested in the criteria of which the chairman or president of the Parliament at this point gives three to one, or one plus one plus one. Some MPs get one warning, the other one gets a third one, and some MPs get all three warnings all of a sudden, so I'm wondering what the criterion is that we know about the future, because for some there's one criterion, and for some, there's one criterion. Other there is another criterion [[The incursion president: No, no, no.]] So I'm asking you to explain it. [[No, colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81704	Comrade Dark Taritash, don't make confusion where she doesn't need it now. So, I'm trying very correctly to be objective, and I think so far, four representatives of the Mosta have received three warnings, two representatives of the Green-Left bloc, so I don't care who comes from which political options but I do what I have to do to ensure that HS can work uninterruptedly. It's not always simple because this is about intentional violations of the Rules of Procedure and I'm trying to judge as objectively as possible. Of course someone likes it, someone doesn't, but I'll do what I think is right. Dear Pupovac, please choose a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81705	Injury. 238. My colleague Petrov, if you wish to challenge my claims, then tell me what you disagree with. Label me to lie and to be A liar in this House is an insult. [[Adversity President: Col. Pupovac.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81706	You're getting a second warning, too. But no, these are replicas this has nothing to do with the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. [[I'm sorry.]] You are now replicating with your colleague Petrov as he's replicated with you, I must give you a warning I have no other. Simply everybody, you're all abuse of the rules of procedure and you're having a discussion, or you're replicating each other, and I'm giving a warning when I give a warning that's what I can do, and then you're still reporting, and you want to sideline with your colleagues, which is not correctly simple.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81707	You, Mr. President, of course, can understand that when someone gives you the label that you're a liar in the debate of good intentions, that it is not in accordance with Article. 238 [[And what is that, yes?]] But I'm telling you it is. [[Intruder President: Not that.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81708	Well, I gave my colleague Petrov a warning, so please sit down. You now have two warnings from your colleague, Pupovac. Comrade Petrov, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81709	Mr. Pupovci, what can I tell you? .../Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81710	Comrade Petrov, please. You get a warning now this is your third warning and.../Speakers speak at the same time./... you can no longer speak. Comrade Petrov, please sit down. You're getting a third warning. This really doesn't make sense. And don't do it now. Here you go. Here you go. You have two warnings, maybe you'll get a third.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81711	I am waiting for the third, 238th, so when we talk about the apprentices of fellow Petrov, you are not a apprentice of this or that, you are along with your apprentices of death.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81712	You get a third warning from your colleague Pupovac, you can no longer speak the third warning. He can't even speak to a fellow Pupovian anymore. Take your time, pal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81713	He's been injured. 238th to be called apprentices of death, so Croatian MPs are offended and demeaned for what?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81714	I now explained to my colleague, Pupovac, that he was offended because he was told something ugly by his colleague Petrov, a colleague of Petrov, so I gave you a warning and now I am giving you a warning because you too want to replicate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81715	I'm just surprised it could be a lot of... saying that this is Ustasha politics, that it's calling a referendum of Ustasha politics. And what he's doing is antifascism. [[Adversity President: You get a colleague, you get a third warning.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81716	You're getting a third warning. Don't manipulate it, please. You no longer have the right to speak. Now it's time for a colleague of the coat of arms. Here's an explanation for the break. Please, colleagues and colleagues, this has really gone too far today.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81717	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the SDP, I'm looking for a break and they're started with something that my colleague Pupovac said and where he was right, that at the beginning of the pandemic it sat down and talked about. These talks lasted three days and two years later HDZ can do what it wants. You HDZ gentlemen have your stubborn policies, your perseverance that only you are smart and that only you know what is needed in this epidemic is that people are protesting today, and that by paralyzing death and disease, they are collecting signatures for the referendum. So do you realize how much damage you've done to this country, are you aware of how much stubbornly you've deterred people from respecting measures, to vaccinate and exploit what the state has made available to them to protect their health, to protect their lives? Gentlemen of the HDZ say what the coat of arms is born, time does not correct. But here we have a chance to correct a mistake, here we have a chance to do what my colleague Pupovac said, sit down and realize that some things have to be brought by consensus, that some things have to be brought by a two-thirds majority. So who two years ago thought we'd need confirmation to get into HS or municipalities, so these are extraordinary measures. The health system is mobilized, so these are extraordinary measures in which things have to be carried out as prescribed for extraordinary measures, which is two-thirds majority. And these parasites that are paralysing just like Željka Markic has been paralysed on the female body, I am still handing out cooperation. Come out for a pay phone, invite the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to split, and we will call for a referendum. Invite them to split, invite them to protect their lives, their health. And the health of your friends [[The incursion of the president: fellow coat of arms.]] Instead of paralyzing. [[The incursion of the president: fellow coat of arms.]] Shame on you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81718	My fellow coat of arms, you're getting a warning. Wait a minute, you're getting a warning, you're out of time, I warned you. [[You're ashamed, parasite one.]] Please, come on. ... [[Tell Milanovic when you can, you coward.]] My colleagues Selak Rasudiæ no longer have the right [[I don't understand.]] [[Intruder Selak Rasdic: So take out, call someone outside.]] [[Grmoja's intrusion: Shut up about Milanovic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81719	Take me out, call someone, paralyze someone's death, are you aware of the weight of those words? It's beneath every debate. It is in the Croatian Parliament... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81720	Comrade Rasudic, sit down. ... You have no right to speak. ... [[The speaker is not enabled.]] I'll do it now, now I'll... [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Comrade Rasudic, don't provoke, please stop. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] My colleagues and colleagues, please. My colleagues and colleagues, let's calm down. He's a colleague of the Rasdic. Comrade Rasdic, please, come sit down. ... Well, no, no, you want me to get you. ... [[/Intruder Rasputic, you don't understand.]] Go to your seats and sit down, calm down. [[/Intruder Rasputic, you don't understand.]] A colleague of Bulj and a colleague of Rasdic. A fellow Bull. ... Stop. [[I don't understand.]] My colleagues and colleagues. ... A fellow Bull. [[I don't understand.]] A colleague of Bulj, a colleague of Miletić's. Comrade Miletić, please move to the hall where you can sit. I am now asking you colleagues and colleagues...... Please, colleagues and colleagues, please stop now. The hard words fall, calm down, the public is watching us, everyone has a right to their own opinion, but I ask you to behave within the limits of what is civilized and acceptable. [[I don't understand.]] Now stop. Comrade Beljak, you have an explanation for the break, please. Someone's involved, eh, can you? Please turn off, colleague Selak Rasdic, please. Comrade Whitey, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81721	Thank you very much, dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HSS Club and the Workers' Front. I must say, first of all, that I am appalled by today's debate and this behavior of individuals, certain people who, behold, are struggling with some human rights, there I would fight in the middle of the Parliament, so I'm surprised to see you Mr. President, for not responding and calling the guards, so I'm really appalled in how you would describe it in the first place and if you of HDZ and the ruling majority were to blame for this, yes. You are to blame for this because I do not know why you were afraid to make an open debate and really go to the vote of this law with a two-thirds majority, and then it would really not come to such scenes, you would not let go, I will not express myself harshly and tell the parasites, although it is not far from the truth, but to the populists who are trying on an extraordinary situation in which not only Croatia but also the whole world, to create political points, so I am trying not to express myself harshly but really after these scenes, I am not sure what can happen, I am asking you, the ruling majority, please, to really talk to people regardless of political parties, to political commitment that understand the situation of things, which do not intend to use such crisis situations for your political points alone. I think that you would do well for Croatia if these scenes as we look at these difficult words today, we would not listen at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81722	Thank you, Comrade Whitey. You've calmed down a little passion. Let's go to another request for a break, colleague Radin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81723	Thank you very much. Don't be afraid of anything, I'll just ask for a break to think about. We from the National Minorities Club want to ask for 10 minutes off to think about one thing very much, I would say the trivial fact, which is that for the two-thirds majority, they need coalition votes and they need to vote left. And from what I understand, the Bridge doesn't agree with either the coalition or the left. And how can two-thirds of the Bridge expect correct conclusions to be made here? That's one question that we're asking ourselves, and with a call for vaccination and a third vaccination, two vaccinations aren't enough, I'd welcome you all well and want a lot of health.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81724	Thank you, fellow Radin. With age comes wisdom, right? No, you can't talk anymore. [[I've got a break-in on the side.]] We are now going to make a statement on the amendments that we have made earlier in the session, so we will vote on those amendments that the Proposer does not accept. The first amendment by parliamentarian Brumnic is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The second amendment to the Focus Club of Representatives and Independent Representatives is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? Neither did this amendment get the votes needed. 3. Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 4th Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 5 MPs Katarina Peovic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 6th Amendment of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Before deciding on the law, we will vote on two proposals for a conclusion. The first is a proposal from the Club of Representatives of the SDP, which proposes to the Assembly to reach a conclusion that reads as follows: 17 The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is the law in question on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases, P.Z. No. 230 should be delivered to the two-thirds majority of all MPs. What do you need, Comrade Bauk?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81725	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81726	No, no, no, no, no, he can't, no, no, he can't. This is not in line with the Rules of Procedure, colleague Bauk Please, sit down. [[Intruder: Please make...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81727	... give a reminder to Vice President Anti Sanader who told me yesterday that I would be able to explain our conclusion at the plenary session.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81728	But you spent your break. Well, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't,
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81729	Well, I didn't, I would have explained it yesterday because yesterday there was... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81730	Let's not, let's not, you know the Rules of Procedure well, you know you can't. So, I am voting on the proposal to conclude a SDP representative club that the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the necessary, i.e. the conclusion did not receive the required number of votes and was not adopted. The second conclusion is that of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, which proposes to the Assembly to conclude: The longevity of the Covid-19 pandemic, as well as its deep health, economic, social and legal consequences, corresponds to the definition of the state of emergency caused by natural disasters in the manner in which it is defined. 17 The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. For this reason, decisions, including legislative provisions which seriously restrict human rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution, which are taken for the purpose of implementing epidemiological and other measures which suppress the Covid-19 pandemic, shall be adopted by a two-thirds majority in the manner defined in Article 1(1). 17 Constitution. I am voting on a proposal to conclude the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club that the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The conclusion didn't get the number of votes needed, 35 was for, 74 was against. Before we go to the vote, a colleague named Bauk called for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81731	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I think there's been an injury. The 253th century 10 of the HS Rules of Procedure, which stipulates that by two-thirds of the votes of all MPs, the Assembly will adopt laws in accordance with Article. 17th century 1 of the Constitution. As we believe this Law should be based on an article. 17th century 1 of the Republic of Croatia, we believe there will be a breach of the Rules of Procedure if you do not announce it before the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81732	Comrade Bauk, I disagree. You can contact the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, but your intervention is not such a nature, so you will not get, of course, a warning, this is a legitimate request.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81733	I thank Mr. President, I will address, announce that I will address the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, so don't go home yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81734	Comrade Raukar-Gamulin, please. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81735	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 253 ct. 10. We will address the Committee on the Constitution because we believe that the injured Rules of Procedure that determines the two-thirds majority in this situation for the vote is important.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81736	The same answer as your colleagues in Bauku, so you can contact the Committee. Here you go, colleague Bačić, you have a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81737	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague named Bauk has been injured by an officer. 238 Rules of Procedure. In fact, it is legitimate to request the opposition in HS that this Law be adopted by two-thirds of the foundation of the Article. 17 Constitution. As is the legitimate requirement of the ruling majority to form an art. 16 The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia limits individual human rights and freedoms when it comes to protecting the health of our citizens. This was evident in the Constitutional Court and in this way in the conduct of HS Absolutely in accordance with the Constitution. [[Intruder: Comrade Bačić.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81738	You're getting a warning. You've replicated, this was no violation of the Rules of Procedure by a colleague named Bauk. A colleague, Hajdukovic, also reports, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81739	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I join my colleagues and colleagues who say that the Rules of Procedure have been injured, in that we should vote in a two-thirds majority and I announce that because I must announce that we will also address the Committee on the Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81740	All right. You have the right to do that. But I am now voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the protection of the public against infectious diseases. I would like to stress that the adoption of this law requires half the total number of MPs to be 76.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81741	Hello, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81742	You don't have the right to speak anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81743	How about a name for what you said?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81744	Who's in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81745	And it's a name to bet on, let it be known.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u81746	No, you'll have a record and it'll be clear who voted the way he voted. Who's in favor of this bill? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 104 MPs and MPs, 77 for and 27 against, have voted, and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases has been passed. Proposal for a Law on the issue of covered bonds and public supervision of covered bonds, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 217. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. A proposal for a Law on the issue of covered bonds and public supervision of covered bonds is adopted and 1. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 112 MPs and MPs voted, 90 for, 22 abstentions and concluded that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u82864	Let us move on now, under a) Proposal for a Decision on the resolution of part of the members of the Supervisory Board of Croatian Radio Television and under b) Proposal for a Decision appointing part of the members of the Supervisory Board of Croatian Television. The draft act shall be proposed by the Committee on Information, Information and Media. The debate is closed. I stress that the Croatian Parliament is based on Article 22(1). The Law on Croatian Radio Television appoints and resolves members of the Supervisory Board by a majority of the votes of all MPs, so 76. First, I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision on the resolution of part of the members of the Supervisory Board of Croatian Radio Television. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? A unanimous 114 vote on the decision has been made as proposed by the Committee on Information, Information and Media. And second, I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision appointing part of the members of the Supervisory Board of Croatian Radio Television. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 116 MPs and MPs voted, 77 for, 39 against, and a decision was taken as proposed by the Committee on Information, Information and Media.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-15-0.u82868	And lastly, the selection, appointment and resolution is proposed by the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs. The debate is closed. I suggest if you agree to vote unitedly on 5 proposed decisions. Is anyone against the possibility? No, I don't. It then puts forward a vote on draft 5 decisions as proposed by the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that it is unanimous with 115 for, that the decisions have been confirmed as proposed by the committee responsible. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have reached the end of this 9th session. Thank you, everyone. I wish you happy and blessed Christmas holidays, happy New Year's Eve, I want you to spend them in peace, to be well, to be healthy in the name of all of you and our citizens, all Croatians and Croats all over the world I want Christmas, New Year's Eve to spend in peace, prosperity and health. Hello, everyone. Session completed in 12.13 hours. [[Applause.]] The proposal for a decision on the resolution and election of the vice-president of the HS is proposed by the Social Democrats Club, the debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for a decision "1. Mr Miroslav Škoro is hereby dismissed from the post of Vice-President of the HS and 2. It is named Mr Davorko Vidovic as vice president of HS." Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I would like to congratulate my colleague Davorko Vidovic in his election as vice president of HS on behalf of all MPs and MPs, I wish him much success. You're in a good mood today, too bad I can't hear you and our viewers can't, I'm afraid I can't let you do that. [[Applause]]
