ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-08-0.u57714	Dear colleagues and colleagues. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. I would like to propose a supplement to the 8th session agenda with 12 new points that you have received in electronic form. Art. The 227 Rules of Procedure determines firstly that a proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure, Article 227 of the Rules of Procedure. The 206 Rules of Procedure lay down that, following an urgent procedure, laws are adopted which comply with EU documents if requested by the applicant and are not voted on, that is, point 1 of the attached amendments to the Amendments and Supplements to the Law implementing EU Regulation 2017/2402 laying down a general framework for securitisation and establishing a specific framework for a simple transparent and standardised securitisation with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure first and second, P.Z.E. No. 188. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. I hereby declare that this legislative proposal is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the case of the adoption of the law under point 4 of the proposed supplement, that is, the point of the Proposal for a Law amending the law... health insurance, with the final proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure first and second, P.Z.E. No. 187, is the applicant representative of Silvano Hrelja? In the absence of any comments, the proposal for an emergency procedure shall be deemed to be accepted in accordance with Article. Rule 205. How appropriate. In accordance with Article 225(4) of the Rules of Procedure of the Rules of Procedure, the remaining points of the draft agenda have not been determined that all the proposed items have been included in the agenda of the 8th session. Thank you very much. Since I found out yesterday was announced announced the president of the assembly that at 1 o'clock will be the presentation of the position this then of course I must withdraw my decision this and the announcement that it will be after the debate is over and I will allow the respected representative Karolina Vidovic Kristo to speak. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-08-0.u57806	Ladies and gentlemen, three days ago, the Austrian State Attorney's Office and the police raided the office of the President of the Austrian Government and the central government. The charge is somehow very well known for Croatian conditions that tax money has been paid ads in different media to affect editorial policy, but also very interesting about the results of surveys on individual politicians. In other words, politicians have corrupt the media with tax money to report them nicely. This event gives us an answer as to why the Austrian has a GDP per capita of $48,000, and the Croatian has $13,800. This event gives us an answer why an Austrian pays currently diesel 9 kuna, and Hrvat 11 kuna, noting that a gas station worker in Austria earns three times as much as that in Croatia, because in Austria it is possible that the bodies that are paid and legally defined to enforce the laws can make a difference with the first man executive authority. The key message of this event is no untouchable. Croatia's reality is that there is a caste of untouchables and this caste publicly demonstrates it. Croatia functions as a Cuba during the dictator of Batista in whose time exactly knew which minister or politician has an area from which it is illegally rich. For example, one received fees from casino owners, the other from the hotel, and the third from a parking lot in the capital of Havana, Havana. Because corruption makes a man decadent, and the one deep in corruption he loses his sense of reality, that's exactly the case in Croatia. The other day, former tycoon Miroslav Kutle gave an interview for N1 television. He made claims that for all reasonable people are extremely disturbing. He argues that Croatian media is ruled by people who deal with extortion and liquidation. He made claims that Croatian media are in a firm embrace of non-transparent and semi-mafarian structures. What would happen in a case like this in Austria? At present, an investigation would be open, and Kutle would have to back up his allegations, and the people he accused would have to be arrested at the moment, or if he couldn't prove his claims to the defendant then would be clear to the public. However, what happened in Croatia? Nothing. Case number two, same thing the other day, so-called. are pandora papers, which reported among other things that he is a member of HEP administration Marko Ćosic in co-ownership of a company in a tax haven. And regardless of what kind of business it is, before his entry into HEP administration, the fact is that he did not mention his business stakes in his property card. And given that Mr. Ćosic was in a business arrangement with a certain Vuk Hamovic, the son of General JNA Hamovic, whom the US authorities characterised as a financing agent for the escape of Serbian war criminals, then the question arises how could this Marko Ćosic be appointed to the HEP administration in the first place, and why has he not been resolved from the same? Ladies and gentlemen, in Croatia, the situation is quite clear, the ruling structures blatantly and facelessly steal their people by violating Croatian laws and European norms, erasing under all moral and ethical principles. If I have said one guilty allegation or point to accuse me, let them report from their corruption gaps, but they will not answer but think that through their control of the media Croatia will remain in the dark without law or corruption. But today when it's 30. The resurrected new Croatian state I am telling them from HS that these forces of darkness in the rush of light and truth will be confused and Croatia will establish a legal state and rule of law, and we will create a fair and rich Croatia for the honor and pride of all Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-08-0.u57807	Thank you. Since we don't have anyone else registered, then we'll be done with today's work, we'll continue to work on Wednesday 13th of October at 9.30. Have a nice weekend. MEETING Interrupted at 12.42 hours On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Zdravka Busic, will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-08-0.u57899	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. On today's historic day, when the 1991 Assembly decided to break all state-owned ties between the former state, I would like to warn of an important issue that is affecting the foundations of national identity, which is our Croatian language. The language is one of the foundations of national identity, means of personal expression and communication as an element of the common nation. It is an important prerequisite for the adoption of all content, to be properly represented, systematically preserved and taught. History has shown us how important this is. These days we are consterned on the politics of discrimination against the Croatian national minority in the Republic of Serbia. The request for support was also forwarded by representatives of the Croatian National Council in the Republic of Serbia. The existence of the Croatian minority and its language is openly denied. This also violates the key laws of the Republic of Serbia and international standards in the area of minority protection. By adopting the European Charter on Regional or Minority Months 1992 and by ratifying it in law, the Republic of Serbia adopted this document as part of its own legislation on the protection of the rights of members of national minorities. By the aforementioned ratification, the Republic of Serbia accepted the Croatian language simultaneously as a minority language that is obliged to protect and take action to preserve it. With this effect, the Republic of Serbia and its institutions are violating a bilateral agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia on the protection of the rights of the Croatian minority in Serbia. Article 6 of the Croatian minority guarantees the right to the official use of Croatian language and letters and gives them the obligation to improve this right. The Croatian language is an international recognition of the language in the official use of the EU and the above-mentioned behaviour of the Committee on Standardisation of the Serbian language of the Republic of Serbia is directed against a policy that should protect minority identity and minority communities and ensure that their promotion mechanisms are maintained. We've already had to react to these attempts. Let us remember trying to create the rebel language and in this case a little, just a few days ago, Croatian Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic gave a clear message to the Republic of Serbia. He said the embassy and the ministry should send a note that was made. The foreign minister sent his note to the Serbian minister of education, science and technology. We've sent a diplomatic note. And the latest linguistic policy of the Serbian government and its thesis that the Croatian language is only one of the names for Serbian as absurdly scientifically unsustainable and incorrectly evaluated by the representatives of the Croatian National Council in the Republic of Serbia, Mrs Jasna, Jasna Vojnic has already responded to this as Mr Zigmanov, and of course our Institute of Croatian Language and Linguistics. The Institute stresses that this is a scandalous, indeed scandalous topic of actually official opinion that is a team of even more top Serbian linguistic organisation of a committee called the Committee on Standardisation of Serbian Language, which is obviously also the position of Serbian, Serbian state institutions. All of this, there would be a lot to talk about, but we don't have enough time and 5 minutes is not enough for this one, for this really big problem, but we are working on it especially my Committee on Croats outside the Republic will also have a thematic session on this subject, but this, all of which I have mentioned briefly, I would like to point out that, as the president of the country and the Prime Minister and Foreign Minister, we want to send a clear message to Serbia that such scandalous behaviour cannot pass. And I hope that this well-intentioned, well-intentioned and well-intentioned appeal will receive as this, this, this Croatian language and this state deserves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-08-0.u58015	Now, as I have announced, we are moving to deliver a position on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives. The first one came from a respected representative, Karolina Vidovic Kristo. She's not here, she's losing her right to debate, and then she's going to speak to a respected representative, Ivana Kekin, on behalf of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives. She's gone, she's losing her right to debate, and then she's going to speak to the esteemed representative Marin Lerotić on behalf of the IDS Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-08-0.u58016	Thank you, dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, on behalf of the IDS Club, I would like to congratulate you on the Day of the Croatian Parliament, but also to thank all those who are in these past 30 years. gave your contribution to this country. Today after 30. We certainly remember all the important moments and dates, days, events that marked this country, but we also cannot mention and talk about everything that is in this period, a challenging period ahead of us. Today, we are often talking about inflation these days, we are talking about Croatia entering the euro zone, we are talking about Croatia entering Schengen, which we certainly welcome because we definitely think that this will make one contribution to solving certain problems that our citizens, our fellow citizens, our entrepreneurs, such as better economic integration, easier investment abroad, easier foreign investment in Croatia, solving and some other problems we have had, we know mostly with Swiss, currency, currency risk and other problems. Also today, we are participants in a global crisis caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, a crisis that has also shown certain economic and economic disadvantages that this country has, and this is mostly a weak, poor economy which primarily relates and is based on, in fact, on, on tourism that makes over 20% of GDP and there definitely needs certain shifts, certain bold reforms, especially in some tax aspects to facilitate investment, we need faster, faster judiciary, faster resolution of some property relations and other problems to make our economy better, faster and easier to move forward. We also have an opportunity of EUR 24 billion at our disposal to launch all these reforms and especially when it comes to the funds that we have from the Recovery and Resistance Fund. It is also important to talk about the health problem, about the huge debts that we have towards large-scale drugs, which are accumulated every month and simply some further borrowing and payment of these debts without systematic and reforming health problems are merely the turning from hollow to empty. We also have a major problem with the outflows of doctors, nurses and technicians that we also need to address. Today, also in his speech, the President of the Parliament said that we have over a million and 200 thousand young people, under 30 years of age, and they are our economic, educational, political and many other futures, and we need to focus our focus on them. We have 55,000 students of professional studies who simply don't know how their level of education will be regulated, that's the problem we have to solve. I have often said in the Parliament that we have many young citizens who have decided to study, educate abroad, but when they wish to return their foreign diplomas that they have acquired in EU member states are not recognised. This leads to employment problems, one building and an independent life. We also had a law yesterday that we welcomed, which is when we talk about the use of state property that simply fails, and now we're going to have one opportunity to put it more quickly and better into entrepreneurial aspects. We need to move faster and better valorize the assets we have, also through the eu funds to bring the money down to local levels and leave the management of that state property to local development agencies and local and regional self-governments because we have actually one paradox and I will end up with that, that we have state property that's going down, that's staring blank, that we don't know what we're going to do, and on the other hand we have a space that we have to protect, and we unfortunately allow it to be destroyed through illegal construction. And these things are just a small look at the problems we have and that we have to solve in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-08-0.u58095	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS will now speak the esteemed representative Marijana Puljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-08-0.u58096	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. HGK is an organisation where, according to research among its members, 77.4% were not satisfied with its work. This research has proved what we have been warning of for a long time. Entrepreneurs who are members of this institution and finance do not feel that they benefit from it in business but serve themselves, a party who is in power to retain power, to use this institution to employ high-ranking and well-paid jobs. All of this leads us to conclude that the Chamber of Commerce would never have survived in this form if there were no mandatory membership fees. That is why we have been loud advocates of abolishing not institutions but mandatory membership fees, and such a high percentage of dissatisfaction with the work of any institution in any system or state could not be tolerated unless the institution serves the rulings rather than those who finance it. We've recently had elections for the president of the Chamber of Commerce, we've had three candidates reported, two of which are actually real candidates for president. The first president of the HDZ so far is Luka Burilovic, who owns a diploma from Republika Srpska's private university in a series of Banja Luka private high schools that were hit and local authorities due to false and suspicious diplomas. He also owns a diploma from Visnjan High School of Business which was later closed because it was not good enough. On the diplomats of Banja Luka University, Višnja School president, the former HGK president was based on a postgraduate study at the Faculty of Economics in Osijek, and became a doctor of science there last year. The Statute of the Chamber of Commerce stipulates that the president of the organisation must have ten years of experience in management positions in the economy, and the courts have confirmed earlier that Mr Burilovic does not have the necessary conditions to act. On the other hand, you had a candidate Mr. Drazen Orescanin, a longtime entrepreneur, a man who built his business path without politics, without party ties, with no business dependence on state money, former president and members of the Croatian Association of Independent Exporters of Software Management, a man who has been actively in favour of the problems of entrepreneurs in this crisis through the Association The Voice of Entrepreneurs. Burilovic, representative of old Croatia, all that has brought Croatia into today's state, a country which is at the bottom of all the rankings in Europe because of corruption and clientelism. On the other hand, Orescanin represents Croatia two, zero, representing a new, modern, developed state of living and developed entrepreneurship that promotes the development and economic activity of the whole country. The campaign highlighted three strategic goals of depoliticalisation and the return of HGK's reputation, voluntary membership and increased quality of services and attracting new members. To these three strategic objectives, 12 operational objectives include optimisation and reduction of business costs, strengthening the role of border associations that will have their own budgets and strengthening co-operation with other entrepreneurship associations are being added. When you see these two candidates, when you see what their members say about the Chamber of Commerce, what the public says about the Chamber of Commerce, the choice seemed quite logical and unquestionable. The new one was supposed to be replaced by the old one. But members of the HGK Assembly seem to have been terrified of the announced changes, the large majority chose old ones instead of new ones, they chose Burilovic and his "great career", they chose to be close to the ruling instead of reforming themselves into an independent institution at the service of all their members. Between the vision that the Chamber of Commerce must be led by entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs, they chose that the Chamber of Commerce should continue to be a place to implode similar personnel, or as one minister recently said, the extended arm of the government. Well, congratulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-08-0.u62183	And now we're going to the agenda point: - Proposal for a law on the authority of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the HS, first reading, P.Z. No. 184 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 184 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State Sanjin Rukavin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-08-0.u62184	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President of HS, the esteemed parliamentary deputies and parliamentary representatives, ladies and gentlemen. The relevant Act on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues in the HS section No. 133/20, the Government is empowered to regulate current economic policy issues from the HS area except for changes in the state budget and tax regulation and those issues which, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, only HS can regulate. It is a legal development of the constitutional basis for the application of the legislative delegation contained in the provisions of Article 1(1). 88. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which remains necessary for the regular exercise of the fundamental duties of the state authorities, with respect to all the material and time limits established by the Constitution, the delegated law and the relevant constitutional case-law. The basic restrictions of the legislative delegation are laid down. 88. The Constitution, which refers to the development of the Constitution of established human rights and fundamental freedoms, national rights, electoral system, structure, detour and way of working of state authorities and local self-government that regulates exclusively HS organic laws, means that those issues cannot be regulated in any way by regulations under legal authority. In addition, on the basis of the legal authority as sublegal rules, the Regulation cannot have a reverse effect, a prohibition of retroactiveness with the delegation of power limited by time in such a way that the Regulation ceases to apply on the expiry of a period of one year of powers obtained, unless the HS decides otherwise. In the current legislative practice, the delegated powers are further materially limited to the issues of the current economic policy in the HS area, except for changes in the state budget and tax regulation, and the times are further limited to a period during which HS does not regularly meet. Since the power delegated by law in force ceases within a constitutional period of one year from the date of its entry into force and 10 December 2021 respectively. This draft law also proposes to empower the government to regulate certain issues in the HS's section by respecting applicable constitutional restrictions and current legislative practice. The proposal for a law proposes that the Government of the Republic of Croatia submit to each meeting of HS a report on the regulations it has adopted between the two meetings of HS and the first meeting of the newly elected HS on the basis of the powers it has adopted since the date of the last report. It is also proposed that, on the basis of the legal authority applicable on the date of entry into force of this law, the Regulations remain in force and for a maximum period of 30 November 2022. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-08-0.u62185	Thank you. We have more replicas on your exhibit, the first is the respected representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-08-0.u62186	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Secretary of State. The public consultation which could be read in the light of this law lists a number of comments and concerns for individuals that this law will be imposed, for example. mandatory vaccination, that will be engulfed in rights, guaranteed rights for people or citizens. Of course, according to the article. 88. The constitution is defined which rights cannot be touched after all, so just for the sake of the Croatian public, can you specify examples of the regulations covered by this law, so that the government can pass the HS at a time when HS does not meet and when no extraordinary session of the Assembly will be convened? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-08-0.u62187	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-08-0.u62188	Thank you very much. I must stress the respected parliamentary deputies that this law does not allow and prevent the adoption of regulations which would develop the Constitution established human rights and fundamental freedoms because these are issues that govern exclusively the HS organic laws, which means that issues of mandatory vaccination as well as any other issues concerning human rights and fundamental freedoms cannot be regulated in any way by regulations based on legal powers. This law is fully in line with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and I have pointed out that the regulations can be adopted from the current economic policy except for the change in the state budget and the tax regulation itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-08-0.u62189	Dear representative Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-08-0.u62190	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, I think it is important to point out once again that I am based on the constitutional powers laid down in Article 88. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia Every year, I stress every year the law we are discussing today. It means he's identical every year and he's one year old. I would just like you to explain this part a little bit because the consultation report shows that the citizens involved believe that some hidden basis for the adoption of this law is also the ultimate objective of mandatory vaccination, the introduction of a new lockdown, etc. And it is therefore clear that bringing into connection with this law and doubts about the human rights-guaranteed constitution, so I ask you to explain that part a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-08-0.u62191	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-08-0.u62192	Thank you very much. Dear Parliamentarians, I have already responded partly to your question asked by the previous MP. I agree with you that this law is passed every year, and it specifies exactly what the Government can adopt regulations with a legal basis and only at the moment when the Croatian Parliament does not meet. That's what's crucial to the timing. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-08-0.u62193	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-08-0.u62194	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, you have made it clear that this applies exclusively to the area of economic policy other than, of course, tax policies and the budget itself. I wonder if you might have an overview of how many such regulations with a legal basis have been passed over the past year?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-08-0.u62195	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-08-0.u62196	Thank you very much. An important parliamentary representative, only one regulation amending the health care law has been adopted. That means only one regulation was adopted last year over a period of one year.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-08-0.u62197	Dear representative Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-08-0.u62198	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, you will agree safely and write here in the materials that the application of this constitutional legal institute or legislative delegation is in fact a derogation from the fundamental competence of the holder of the legislative and executive authority. Practice shows us that these things are actually necessary for the regular exercise of the fundamental powers of the state government, which means preventing the creation of a legal void and also continuity. In line with the answer you gave to your colleague, Petri, where I also wanted to ask you how many regulations and regulations, can you say more in fact what this regulation was about, or what it prescribed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-08-0.u62199	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-08-0.u62200	Thank you very much. It is clearly prescribed in the very regulation when the government passed it with the legal force it applied to so that it is clearly prescribed there. I would not read now but it is certainly what is in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and absolutely not, it is not misused by the government of the Republic of Croatia as regards the Croatian Parliament of any authority.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-08-0.u62201	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Before we move on to the debate, I would just like to tell you all that, in the usual practice of completing the debate on this point, we will move on to the presentation of the position of clubs and representatives, so please inform all interested who are not here at this time about the possibility, and who are here if they are interested, they will come forward. I will then open a debate on this point and, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the respected representative Anamarija Blažević will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-08-0.u62202	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, the HDZ Representatives' Club will support this Proposal for a Law on the Power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section. The legislative footing for the adoption of this law is the Constitution and its Article 88 thereof. The Constitution prescribed the possibility for the Croatian Parliament as a legislative body to authorise the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from its part-round. In doing so, it is explicitly prohibited to regulate legislative issues relating to the development of the Constitution of established human rights and fundamental freedoms, national rights, electoral system, establishment, detour and way of working of state bodies and local self-government. Also, under the legal authority of the Government, they cannot act backwards. In order to implement this regulation, the Constitution of the Croatian Parliament, once a year as we have heard, is passed by the Law on the Power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section. The law shows that the government's authority is to regulate legislative issues by means of a regulation that does not meet the Croatian Parliament under the Constitution, which is the period from 15 December to 15 January and from 15 July to 15 September. In accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, such a regulation shall cease to apply within a period of one year from the date of its authorisation. Articles 1 and 2 of this proposal defines this period of time when the Government can adopt regulations, namely 15.12.2021 to 15.1.222 and 15.7.2022 to 15.9.2022, and that the Government cannot regulate regulations but is the jurisdiction of the Croatian Parliament only, with constitutional provisions, also mention changes in the budget and tax regulation. Furthermore, in accordance with Article 3 of this proposal, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is required to submit a report at each HS meeting on the regulations which are based on the legal authority referred to in Article 1(1). 1st of this law adopted between the two meetings of HS and the first meeting of the newly elected HS. It's been in the Republic of Croatia since '93. regular annual delegation laws prescribed by the Government to submit at each meeting a report on the regulations it has adopted on the basis of the legal authority between the two meetings. Article 4 clearly limits the time limit until such adopted regulations remain in force and that is the fixed date of 30 November 2022. On September 7th, '21. On the basis of the Law on the Power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues referred to in the HS section of last year, a Regulation amending the Health Protection Act has been adopted, so only one regulation. In this case, it was a question of the current economic policy of the Republic of Croatia, which is in accordance with Article. 1st of this Act, or the Law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to regulate certain issues in the part of the HS. This Regulation amends the 3 articles of the Health Protection Act, which were related to the extension of the deadlines, which are the articles in the transitional provisions of the applicable Health Protection Act, which were governed by the status of employees in primary health care who should have ceased that status until 31.12.2019, but was extended to 31.12.2022. The adoption of this Regulation and the new deadline would result in the loss of 639 jobs in primary and health care, which would also result in financial effects on the state budget. Therefore, due to the continuity of providing primary health care, the government has adopted the said regulation. Art. The sixth proposal for this law provides for the entry into force of the same law on 10 December 2021. The adoption of this law is necessary to prevent the creation of a legal void. In practice, it is shown that this law is necessary for the regular exercise of the fundamental duties of the state authorities in view of the need to ensure continuity of state affairs while respecting all material and time limits established by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The importance of HS is highlighted in the very procedure of adopting this law or through two readings in this high house. The HDZ representative club will support this bill as it contributes to legal certainty and ensures regular exercise of the fundamental duties of state authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-08-0.u62203	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, and we'll vote on it when we get the conditions.
