ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u42837	I'll do it again because there was a little bit of unnecessary traffic before, when we're done with the stops, there'll be an anti-epidic break by 1400 hours. Now it's Mrs. Ruzica Vukovac's turn to present the position of the Homeland Movement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u42838	Thank you, my dear. In Europe, family agriculture makes up most of the farms and offers fair and sustainable economic models. Despite the growing number of farms and agricultural land concentrations in the hands of a few European agriculture remains largely small-scale agriculture. According to reports published in 2015 and 2016 97% of farms are less than 100 hectares and 69% are less than 5 hectares. These small farms and people who work on them are key to the very foundations of total agriculture. A sustainable food system that can guarantee healthy food for the entire population is one that can preserve territorial, biological and cultural diversity strengthen rural areas that we need. We can therefore conclude that Europe needs more farmers. The Covid-19 pandemic reminds us of the need to restore resilience and focus on food sovereignty, the EU must become resistant to such shocks by restoring the political capacity to make decisions on regulation of agricultural and food markets. First, there must be a thorough review of European international trade policy which today prevents the creation of significant public policies to improve food systems in terms of quality, food safety, environmental sustainability, social inclusion and rural development. This also implies a fairer distribution of agricultural resources, a policy of sustainable shift of production and marketing and the creation of strategic food supplies. Furthermore, agri-ecological economies that have already shown resistance during the crisis need to be supported. The number of small and medium-sized farmers must increase and there must be a clear profit for megafarms in Europe. Agroecology and more farmers on earth respond to the huge challenge of climate change. At the level of agricultural holdings, several studies show that the absorption of greenhouse gases in soil is much more effective when it comes to the principles of agroecology, increases biodiversity and promotes interaction between different plant and animal species as part of the holistic strategies for the construction of long-term fertility reduces the number of pests and the risk of disease, protects water systems and provides pollination services. In order to achieve ambitious objectives, it is necessary to improve and encourage regional production, it is a priority that all agricultural products entering the EU meet the same social and environmental standards as those applying to European production. Given the growing presence of digitisation and new technologies in agriculture within the current political debates, clear technology must not lead to rural areas becoming wasteful. Accurate technology should not be seen as an automatic and effective solution to all economies, social and environmental problems. Incentives to expensive digital private-owned technologies force farmers to rely on industry and ultimately reduce employment in the countryside, and this does not take into account social and environmental impacts. Access to land must also be facilitated in order to allow many new farmers to deal with the profession. The land must no longer be treated as goods but as general and multi-purpose goods. In accordance with the European Parliament Report 2016/2141, it is necessary to adopt a land directive providing the necessary guidance on how to regulate the agricultural land market in accordance with EU law. Despite various reforms, the common agricultural policy continues to act as an incentive to agricultural economies and accumulate as many countries as possible by turning the EU's largest funding line into direct support for large systems, which is absolutely contrary to the EU's territorial cohesion principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u42839	Thank you, too. Now Mrs Ursha Raukar Gamulin will stand on the green-left block.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u42954	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Today, it is 30 years since the murder of Joseph Reichle Kir of the then commander of the Osijek Police Department. He was killed by a men's ambush by an Antun Gudelj, a member of the MuP reserve crew. Also killed was Deputy President of the Osijek City Council Goran Zubundžija and City Councilman Milan Knezevic, while Mirko Tubic, president of the tennis community, was beaten almost to death after being wounded on the spot and survived by the game of the case, leaving a severe disability. It would only make sense that at the moment of the murder of the police commander, all police forces went up and arrested the killer immediately, but that didn't happen. The killer Antun Gudelj left Osijek freely, then Austria and eventually Australia. He was sentenced in absentia in 1994 to 20 years in prison, so he was released by an illegal example of the Law of General Forgiveness and exclusively by the efforts of the widow of Jadranka Reichl Kir again after the annulment of the acquittal decision at a new trial sentenced to a maximum of 20 years in prison. Josip Reichl Kir of light is a point, a brave peacemaker in those difficult years, a man who sought peaceful ways to solve problems between Croats and Serbs in Osijek and the surrounding area. His words were remembered while I am chief of police war between Serbs and Croats in this area will not be. He pronounced it in June 1991, not a month before his death. It is hard for a man to stop the escalation of war, Milosevic's war machine, various paramilitary units imported from Serbia, as well as radicals from the Croatian side, but he tried and tried most often to go unarmed to negotiations, calmly calm down tensions on both sides. He was in it by himself. Against him was Branimir Glavas, then the most powerful man in Osijek who even publicly called for disobedience to the legal and legitimate commander of the Osijek police. Croatia did not have the power to deal with all aspects of the event. For years and decades, Jadranka Reichl Kir has been carrying evidence into the state's attorney's office, but our judiciary is not and is not. And so today, 30 years after the murder of Joseph Reichl Kira, the employers of this monstrous crime and crime and all the circumstances of the murder were neither enlightened nor held accountable for justice. Josip Reichl Kir is hardly mentioned at all in official statements or in the commemorations of the Homeland War, and we cannot take the impression that he is trying to push himself to forget the fate of the police commander, one of Croatia's greatest peacemakers, the man who tried and in the most difficult situations such as war remain a man. He was a voice of reason and kindness, a voice which should be entered in gold letters in Croatian history as an example of our generations and future generations. The example of a peacemaker and a hero who, despite serious death threats, did not give up trying to keep Osijek and Slavonia from being killed by war. Elvis Bosnjak author of a novel just published Where Kir didn't disappear in an interview says I quote, Reichl Kir represents a sensitive point of our national identity because it makes us look at ourselves, to ask ourselves what kind of heroes we choose to form that identity. We ask ourselves, together with the Bosniak, why are we keeping people quiet like, like, Kir, what are we ashamed of? Many remember it and try to keep a memory of it, but memories do fade when there is no social need to maintain that memory. It is up to us to fight to stop the official silence over the fate of Josip Rachel Kira because his peaceful heritage deserves its place in Croatian history, in education and in Croatian society as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u42955	Thank you. I join, of course, and remember Mrs. Jadranka Reichl Kir, who was our colleague in this assembly and her dignity in this troubled situation. Ms Marijana Puljak will be the position of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u43039	I thank the chairman. So here today I'm going to talk about something else entirely, not money counters, not corruption, not arrests, but our children who achieve excellent results in knowledge Olympics. While most students are on holiday, they fight best in medals. A total of 4 medals were won by our students at the Information Olympics and 2 at the European Physical Olympics. Croatia was the best EU team on 33. The International Informal Olympics in Singapore, which was held online for the sake of the epidemiological situation. Croatian students won 2 gold, silver and bronze. It is the most important and largest international competition, with representatives of young ITists from 87 countries taking part in Croatia. Dorian Lendvaj, Patrik Pavić won the gold, Vito Anić the silver, and Krešimi Nežmah the bronze. All four of the students of XV. High school in Zagreb popular MIOC. Our two golden students are better than any of the so far unsurpassed Russians. This is how China won 4 gold, America 3 gold, silver, Singapore 3 gold and silver, Russia 3 gold and silver, Japan 2 gold, 2 silver, Croatia 2 gold, 1 bronze and 1 silver, so no one else with 2 gold. The professional leaders of our team are Ivan Paljak, Paula Vidas, Dominik Fistrić, and in the organization of the performance are Matej Ferenčević, Nikola Dmitrić, Alenka Dogan Capan, responsible director and organizer of this performance is Krešimir Malnar. I think we should commend them. Informatics is the only one in which Croatia has top results among the knowledge Olympics and more gold than all other items are expensive. Since the Olympics and held since '89. In the year Croatia has been participating in them since '93, so Finland, which we are constantly trying to copy, has so far been 5 gold, Croatia has collected 14, Serbia 1 gold, 1 medal, India 1 medal, which is wrongly viewed by India as strong in programming. So, Finland won the last gold in 2003, and we constantly impose it on us as an example of whether it's like a country where we should be held in an education organization, and in fact we have home excellent mentors who led all these children to 14 medals and we just need to ask them how to organize. After them are years of work, great talent in children, their mentors obviously know how to bring information closer to children, and the system doesn't ask them anything to this day. So don't ask for advice on how to make information in the education system even better. In addition to the informationists, our physicists have reason to celebrate as I said those who participated in the European Physical Olympics these days, the Grgur Premec of XV. School of High School in Zagreb and Borna Perkovic of III. High school in Split. They won silver medals at the competition, and Rocco Šupe from XV won the competition. High school in Zagreb is a special commendation. So here's to once commending these children and congratulating them for their success. In high school, young people like this often hunt private companies who can pay them what they're worth. Here some of us stay at the FER in Zagreb, at the FESB in Split, at the PMF, but in our system there is really no room for the progress of those who can make a difference and that is a shame. In Croatia we become slowly aware of the huge opportunities provided by IT, gaming industry, robotics, thus STEM education. This shows the recent opening of the Centre of Excellence in Robotics at the Faculty of Engineering, reviving the study of video games, the development of IT gaming incubators across the country, and the introduction of IT in Croatian schools in the way former Minister Blaženka Divjak has actually remained unedited. According to data that came out in the media, they asked several principals for data from primary schools, more and more parents are writing children from electoral information that was introduced for all classes in the school year '20-21, not satisfied with the quality of learning, what is taught there is not satisfied with the quality of knowledge they receive from their teachers, and it is also confusing that it was introduced as a mandatory subject in the 5th and 6th classes until it's mandatory in other classes. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u43040	Thank you. We are now moving to deliver a position on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives. The first in line is in front of Croatian sovereigns Mr. Hrvoje Zekonovic. And after that, by the time you get there, we'll have a break by 1400 epidemiological, anti- epidemiological. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u43098	So, the Honorable Vice President of HS. He's not an independent representative, he's outside the Sovereign Club, but you're standing up on your own. [[I said, what's this about?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u43099	I'm sorry, I said in front of the Croatian sovereigns.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u43100	All right, independent, just a little bit to co-worker.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u43101	I didn't say independent.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u43102	No, it's all five. .../The speaker speaks English./...just love.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u43103	Now return, return time, return time for five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u43104	That's enough. So, the esteemed vice president of HS, respected colleagues and colleagues. These today, in Croatian media, again the topic Viktor Orban, Viktor Orban, for which Croatian sovereigns do not hide that it is a cause for them in the EU or that with exceptional sympathy they see the policy he implements in Hungary and the policy he is trying to implement in the EU. Unfortunately, Croatia today does not represent such a policy or, unfortunately, Croatia today has one completely opposite policy, and Viktor Orban is trying to present himself in Croatian media in every way as a man who has some aspirations for the Croatian space that is inverted, who is actually bringing something bad to the Croatian people and the entire EU. Yesterday, Viktor Orban in Vecernji list paid for an ad, I will read it about the future of the EU proposal for Hungary. The first point, in Brussels such a great country for which no one has given authority, we tell the European Empire. Croatian sovereigns sign. Secondly, integration is a means, not the purpose of the EU's basic treaty itself, to erase the objective of ever closer integration of the EU between the peoples of Europe. We sign because this ever closer integration means the Istanbul Conventions, the Marrakech Agreements, etc. Third, let the decisions be made by elected leaders, not by international NGOs. What's this about? The associations today make decisions and we say no to the rule of law. And this is what Croatian sovereigns sign. The fourth point, the strength of European integration gives common economic success, if we cannot be more successful together than individually, then it is the end of the EU. And we sign that. Fifthly, the next decade will be a period of dangerous challenges threatened by mass migration and pandemics, we must protect people in Europe. And we're signing this. Sixthly, we must restore European democracy, the European Parliament has shown itself to be a dead end, representing exclusively its own, ideological and institutional interests. Let's remember Matic's resolution from last week. The roles of national parliaments should be increased. And this is what we agree on. However, there is one point that we sovereigns are extremely controversial and we will not sign it, but we will explain it. The seventh point is that Serbia should be admitted to EU membership. We'll say a little morgen, so we're against it. We are not against Serbia's entry into the EU in principle. Until when? Until then, all open issues between Croatia and Serbia should not be resolved, and for those who do not know about this state, Serbia attacked Croatia in the 1990s, this country has never recognised the aggression against Croatia, the country has not paid enough war damage, and with that state we have a question of missing, a question of Croatian art that has been stolen, a question of resolving the Danube border, for example. Charengrad hell. So these are the conditions that, according to us or our sovereigns, must be met in order to come into a position at all to discuss Serbia's entry into the EU, so Serbia does not enter the EU. But I'm going to defend Orban a little bit, so Orban is pushing for Serbia's entry, but it's from the Hungarian perspective. Hungary and Serbia have no outstanding problems because in 1991 Hungary did not attack Serbia but attacked Croatia. Therefore, respected Croatian media and citizens are our enemies today or a country that has aspirations or has recently had aspirations towards our space is not Slovenia, not Hungary, but was Serbia and we still have a lot of unresolved with that country. So, every honour of Orbana, we sign all of your points, but as far as Serbia's entry into the EU is concerned, and that's where we think sovereigntyistly and exclusively about Croatian interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u43200	Ms. Martina Vlasic Iljkic will be the position of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u43201	Dear colleagues, respected colleagues, Orljava workers gathered yesterday in Mark's square seeking to pay their salaries that they did not receive back three months. They also requested the resolution of their uncertain situation since it was scheduled for bankruptcy proceedings on July 2nd 2021. And when they came here to Mark's square despite attempts to stop protests by Minister Horvat 2 days before the gathering itself, they got an answer in the form of a surprise from the government of the Republic of Croatia because what panics when all this time they are working intensively to solve the situation and they don't see what the problem is. Isn't receiving a salary of 3 months and that minimum wage from a factory owned by the Republic of Croatia not a problem? Could this happen in any state institution or administration or would employees of hospitals, police, departments of silence be watching and working for 3 months without pay? I'm sure he wouldn't. By underestimating the problems of Minister Horvat, it further reduces the hard work of workers in the textile industry and it is as if they are not depreciated enough by the fact that they are working for a minimumer and do not have the right to Easters, Christmases, regressions, and severances and jubilee awards are sought by court. After standing in the sun yesterday for 4.5 hours looking for a response to their fates, they received a promise that their salaries would be paid in 10 days. It is important today to highlight their struggle and pride that they have fought for their laws guaranteed rights, but it also leaves us a bitter taste because working and not receiving wages is nothing but the worst form of human humiliation. Do you know our dear ministers that their children were at risk for three months because their parents had no income, and in some cases it was the only income in the household. These brave women workers, mothers went to work without the means to buy meals working in poor conditions and under various pressures. This struggle encouraged them, and the Orjav administration showed that they had had had enough of what they were going through. And in this they have the support of our parliamentary deputies who we have supported and who they can always turn to for support. The Orlyava administration experienced various situations, including when they were locked up during a tour of the prison system in Pozega, so that they could not tell the situation that they were working in the 21st century and did not receive salaries. Požeko-Slavonska County is one of the weakest of all indicators among the poorest counties and investment activities. The shutting down of another factory in a series is an additional devastation of the Požega region, which has recently been faced with various disasters. The hot end, which is rich in resources, obviously in power, cannot be used for the benefit of all citizens, growth and community development, and only individuals close to the rulings have personal benefits. We call on the competent institutions to gain insight into the business of the Orljav factory, to take the necessary actions for the responsibility of management president Luka Balenovic for the situation. How is it possible that the president of the administration has no responsibility and the factory has been operating with a loss of 30 million kuna for years? Didn't the owner ask himself if the president of the administration was doing his job well and in whose interest it was? There are a lot of open issues in this case as well as in other disputed cases at the end, for example, the business of Vinarija Galic, which is mentioned in fraud over the European Funds. We call on the competent institutions to do their job and the fight of brave workers from Orljava to serve as an example to all Croatian workers to encourage, report all knowledge and violation of labour rights from all areas of work. The future of Croatia depends on us and the ability to fight injustice and exploit human potentials. And to end, thank all those brave workers for fighting for the better tomorrow of their children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u43202	Thank you. And the last lady. Danica Baricevic will be the position of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u43293	Thank you very much, Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Today's statement from the Ministry of Tourism reveals that during the first 6 months of this year, 2.6 million arrivals and 11.8 million overnight stays and 54% more arrivals and 53% more overnight stays were achieved in Croatia than during the same period of the past year. According to the tourist results achieved in the first half of this year, Croatia remains at the very top of the safest and most desirable tourist destinations of the Mediterranean, and this shows us that as a state we have met all the preconditions for tourists to recognise Croatia as a safe holiday destination, and certainly as a state we have preserved jobs in this pandemic. Health tourism is something that will certainly boost the development of tourism in the Republic of Croatia, and since I come from Split-Dalmatia County, I use the opportunity to praise and sign an agreement last week on the cooperation of the town of Hvar and the health centre partner on the island of Hvar, attended by Minister Willi Beroš and Minister of Tourism and Sports Nikolina Brnjak and Mayor of Split-Dalmatia Blaženko Boban. Certainly this project will connect the island of Hvar to health, tourism and sport, use all its potential in full sense and return to the roots by respecting tradition, create a brand that will certainly be the future. Furthermore, in our county we are pleased with the realization of the start of tourism traffic. 2 million arrivals were made 10 days before last year 2020. The situation, I can say, since I also stayed on the island this weekend, is really satisfactory, the announcements are excellent and the air, rail and road traffic has been fully launched. And what will certainly contribute to our further achievement of the tourist results remains a vaccination. These days, we often hear of a reduced interest in vaccination. But I would indeed once again send a message on the importance of vaccination, given that these are the very positive contributions that we make in tourist transport. The situation is currently such that here in my county where I come from from Split-Dalmatia County is 37.7% vaccinated. At the end of June 30th, 2 million 568 thousand 877 doses of vaccine were spent, with a million and 488,759 people being vaccinated with at least one dose, including a million and 80 and 118 thousand people receiving both doses. On June 30th, 34,718 doses of vaccine were used. Here I appeal once again to all of you dear citizens and fellow citizens to make your contribution because it is now the right time to be vaccinated because as few of those who can be infected, the consequences for Croatia and health and economics will be less, and let us continue to be a safe destination for vacation, for as long as tourism takes us, because we really need these positive contributions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u43294	Thank you very much. Like we said before, break until 2:00. And please open the windows. It's 13,51 o'clock. The positions of the Club of Representatives of MOST will be held by counterpart Nino Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u43399	I will return to the issue of the renewal of Banovina, which my colleague, Nikola Grmoy, spoke of a few days ago, and we will return every week if necessary in everything we can contribute to speed up this process. And this time it's about the problems that have arisen over new support for farmers in the areas affected by earthquakes through so-called earthquakes. Operation 521 recovery of agricultural land and production potential. Namely, the fundamental problem that farmers in Banovina face when they want to apply to support is the inability to apply for a tender because of our national criteria, and they require the existence of a major project to submit applications, and most of them are unable to finance the development of the main project. Therefore, local farmers in Banovina whose economic facilities also died have no money to finance project documentation. And states don't use the possibility of the technical assistance they've been offered. And when it benefits the process of requesting public procurement in the assignment of long-term jobs, with many complaints and slows down the slow process anyway. Experts from the Faculty of Architecture who we consulted believe that immediately after the earthquake through the Ministry of Agriculture, any construction should have carried out public procurement for the production of documentation. The Architectural Faculty has repeatedly written to the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction that aid to the small and medium-sized crafts and agriculture economy is the first real need because people in Banovina and in the countryside live largely from agriculture and a small number of animals in the economic yard. Unfortunately, these animals had to be sold mainly because they were not fed and cared for on the destroyed property. It's clear to people that it takes time, but they're also wondering why the rule doesn't change and bring in 20, 30 type projects that are caricilely posted and go into a competition application. People from the Faculty of Architecture have created a catalog of typical family houses and donated it to the ministry and citizens but we still don't know if it'll be used to rebuild family homes at all. They say they could have made a catalog of commercial buildings, but none of the authorities answered any of their proposals. It takes architects too much time because they didn't even need family homes if they were building type buildings for which to perform type building permits. It takes a lot of time, of course, for individual projects where each one is different. There is a waste of precious time because people are suffering and people are leaving. In such an emergency whose cause is accident and higher power there is an article in the Construction Act that allows it. In addition, only one decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia could be taken and based on it could be carried out through organised procurement of type documentation, but it was necessary to draw up guidelines, criteria, standards and other implementing instructions quickly. And it was immediately after the earthquake that he offered to make the Architectural Faculty, but I repeat, no one responded to their written suggestions. People affected by the earthquake are in agony, looking at broken economic facilities and houses, and they can't do anything on their own. Nearly six months have passed and the living of a four-member family in 12 m2 of airspace such as the container unfortunately collects a toll. The damage assessments by the commission are not complete and people find it difficult to obtain a verified record. These damage assessments are obvious and often incorrect. This showed an assessment of the value of strengthening the structure and the overall renewal mentioned at the end of the Rehabilitation Act, because the market immediately showed that it was a significant sub-assembly in the assessment that double the resources in practice were needed. So if it goes on like this and what few people left in Banovina will go away thanks to the slow state and carelessness. The first need for people is to provide lasting resources for life, insurance for work. For many, it is a provision of domestic animals and a favourable purchase of agricultural products. The Faculty of Architecture also proposed an assembly of wooden construction facilities where part of the people of Banovina could become small construction masters to build such houses, so they themselves build many houses and thus hire a part of them. The bottom line is that there is no short and clear recovery strategy based on professional realism, there are no guidelines for any radical renewal process, there is no money to crash to rebuild in 10 years, let alone in a year, two to declare some of our colleagues. Finally, on the basis of a policy decision, a political strategy, the academic community should make publicly accepted expert guidelines and criteria for all renewal procedures, and the implementation of the renewal should be made available to experienced and competent professional organisations by means of a follow-up to these criteria and policy guidelines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u43400	Thank you, thank you very much. Now, Mr. Marin Lerotić will be the position of the IDS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u43450	Dear Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues here on July 1st, we mark 8 years since Croatia's entry into the EU, and just these days we have had opportunities to discuss a multi-annual financial framework offering us EUR 24 billion in order to recover the Croatian economy in order to become a better and more orderly country. And that's good. It's good to talk about it and try to be better than we were in the last multiannual financial framework. We have millions of EUR for demographic reconstruction and to arrange the system to leave or have conditions, our young people have the conditions to stay in Croatia, our workers have the conditions to work here and create their lives. However, we should also talk about that since 2013 since Croatia's full member of the EU, nearly 300,000 people have left the country. It left this country because wages are low, because the future is uncertain, because our youngsters among the most late in Europe are alone, creating their living conditions, buying real estate, leaving their parents. And that's why it's important that we talk about the billions that we have from the EU to start talking about and what we're doing at home because that's where the foundations are being created, and that's what we have to fix to make our people's lives and our fellow citizens, friends, family members better. And that is to invest in judicial reform, justice, which is one of the three main reasons why our people are leaving today, tax reform that work can be paid more, that people are left to spend more, that before our young people are left alone, investment in health, in pension reforms that will leave one hope in the future that tomorrow, when you finish work, you can have a quality and adequate life in this country, allow young people to work here, encourage employment and therefore the economy activity. And then it won't happen to us that our GDP decline in the crisis is the biggest in Europe and that we boast that we have 24 billion euros as some success, and in fact it's a real success that came from a huge failure. And while our youngsters go out to admit, where they are appreciated, where they create their new life, on the other hand, our young people who are educated abroad, in EU members, want to come back, and I already talked about it in this assembly, where we have an example of a young person who graduated from the secondary medical school in Slovenia and when she wanted to go back to Croatia, she had to listen to another 2500 hours, 2500 hours, to additionally pass the items she had already passed to give her a diploma, so she could get a job, so she could work, and we told her that she was not welcome. And this same person, if he goes to Germany, has to lay down the German B2 language, and not immediately, but he can get a job, and after some time lay the B2 level of German and work there, creating a new life there. And those are the things we have to change. Citizens need to be cared for by the state, not EU money.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u43495	- Mrs. Crescent. Katarina Peovic will hold the position of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and the Workers' Front. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u43496	Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone. Yesterday, we had a very important protest in Mark’s square of “Orljave” workers who had not received their salary for 3 months. So "Early" is a company from Požega that produces very good shirts, textile industry. There was no answer to their enquiries, so 3 months without that salary, which is mostly a minimum wage from the government until the pressure was applied. The pressure was real, the workers stood for 4 hours at 32 degrees Celsius. The government did receive them, or Prime Minister Plenkovic did receive them, and what concluded the meeting is somewhat fruitful for union workers for two reasons. First, for months the government has not responded to their questions, it has led a very non-transparent relationship with workers and unions and the administration itself, so this pressure has finally come up with some answers and finally what we have received in response is the safe opening of a bankruptcy procedure in which, apart from the judge and the bankruptcy manager, there will be a bankruptcy council in which the government will be, but there will be workers and trade unions, which is very important because the unions will be able to monitor the process in which the government would only want to get out of that company, the government is the owner of the "Orljave" and unlike any other situations where Minister Horvat has liked to say "hands are tied" when a similar situation led to the "Olary" case where the workers called him "Min next week" because he spoke or "our hands are tied" or next week we will know more, in this situation we cannot tell us our hands because this company is state-owned. Now the unions, the battle unions will monitor and monitor the bankruptcy process in a way that keeps production in the Orlyawa. It will not be easy, and why it will not be easy to explain to us by Minister Horvat himself, illustrated by his arrival in Markov Square just before the meeting of workers with Andrej Plenkovic where the workers asked him who was responsible for the situation, and he answered them no more than the workers themselves. And for two reasons, says Minister Horvat, because there were a lot of complaints about their shirts and advertising and because we have a debt of 30 million kuna. My colleagues and colleagues, the workers explained to me, meaning complaints and advertising on shirts that we all know are very good at referring to threads that may fall behind on a particular shirt and, of course, that the client lowers the price of shirts by sifting that means advertising or increasing the number of shirts advertised. So they're doing their job very well for the poor minimumer, and advertising itself is certainly not the reason for their problems. And the other problem, means generating 30 million debt, so it's absolutely cynical, so Minister Horvat himself means in that government which means, which is the owner of Orljava, he's the one who needs to be held accountable together with Andrej Plenkovic. It's completely incomprehensible, and that's why the workers were yelling at him, and the boss came forward, because it's obviously not clear to them who's responsible for what happened there. We have an office there that hasn't been replaced, some of them haven't been replaced in 30 years. So if there was a problem, then it was the government that was supposed to replace management and set up some of the more capable people. Of course, that 30 million kuna debt is not a problem at all because it generated itself in a way that the state was not a good master and the state was never a master when it was in a position to be a good master, and individual, individual components of the government and state are very good masters when they buy their own shares, say Martina Dalic of Podravka, as a private person, is a good master. Here in this situation we have asked Minister Horvat why the state doesn't order shirts from the Orlyava, why the MORH, the police who were otherwise ordered from the Orlyava, don't order those shirts, the minister answered, so be careful you have 30 million debts, so we can't mean a public tender, this company couldn't pass because it has 30 million debts, but some other private company that doesn't have 30 million debts passed. Absolutely incredible, so again who's responsible, so Minister Horvat and his government are responsible for it. Behind all this is the possible interest of Hanka, a company that announced yesterday that there was no interest in being a strategic partner in Orljava, which until recently was a completely irrelevant firm, but with the support of ruling It's getting stronger and stronger. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u43497	Thank you. Ms. Ermina Lekaj Prlaskaj will be the position of the Club of Croatian Representatives and Independent Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u43508	The respected chairman, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, will mark 26 years of genocide in Srebrenica this year. This marking is already traditionally joined by the Croatian Parliament, which this year organises a dignified ceremony aimed at fostering a culture of memories of this unremembered tragedy. The general social ambience of the end of the last century did not point to the possibility of repeating the terrible scenes seen during World War II. The collapse of Eastern European totalitarian regimes has led many contemporaries to think as drivers and as a sort of fulfillment of history at the beginning of the last 20th century. The acceptance of the model of liberal democracy and the market economy seemed unconstitutional in all parts of the world, with great hopes awakened and in the final victory of the ideals of the international community as a harmonic whole and its ability to resolve all potential conflict situations peacefully. However, these optimistic forecasts have been quickly denied in various crisis areas where international and interfaith violence has erupted. Especially shocked were the scenes that came to the world public from Southeast Europe, areas that unfortunately had a long and dark tradition of demographic engineering and non-compliance with civil war rules. The targeted use of organised violence against the civilian population by military units and paramilitary units in this case did not constitute a spontaneous eruption of some kind of primordial hatred and not patience, but part of a broader rationalized plan of territorial conquest and permanent national domination. Paradoxically, technological resources and the accumulated expertise of modern eras that were primarily to serve human well-being have contributed even more to the more efficient implementation of criminal ideologies that drained their inspirations from the avasm of long past and forgotten times. A striking symbol of all these crimes has become the eastern Bosnian town of Srebrenica. The monstrosity of the crime in Srebrenica is not only seen in the brutal executions of the civilian population and sadism and the cruelty of its perpetrators, but above all in order to carry out mass crime in record time and to hide its bloody traces by mobilising and using all available technical means and mechanisms. It is precisely because of this organisational and logistics aspect of Srebrenica that the most approaches the experiences of so-called "Serbrenica". the death factory which was designed and designed during World War II to implement the diabolical policy of racial homogenisation of the European continent. A significant difference is the fact that unlike the carefully hidden mass crimes committed in Nazi death camps, the tragedy of Srebrenica was directly taking place in front of the eyes of the entire international community. The uniqueness of Srebrenica is also reflected in the fact that it has become a modern symbol of the failure of the concept of the international community as a mediator in war conflicts because the current particular interests have taken precedence over the general humanistic and moral principles that are the common heritage of all humanity. Re-establishing the confidence of the international justice mechanism will be a long and painful process with a still uncertain and unpredictable outcome. At the same time, in front of societies that are still experiencing collective traumas resulting from recent war conflicts, the necessity of completing the start-up process of reconciliation and future construction of sustainable joint institutions is being imposed. I would like to thank you once again for your attention and I would like to give you all an invitation to join the programme of the 26th anniversary of the genocide in Srebrenica this year as representatives and representatives of HS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54547	CONTINUATION OF THE SESSION 7. The meeting of the Croatian Assembly held 1. July 2021. Honorable MPs, respected MPs, good morning. At the beginning, I will propose that we bring together the debate on the first and second points of the agenda, the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law and the Final Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Protection against Family Violence. Both are emergency procedures, first and second readings. Are we in agreement with that proposal? Thank you. Then this one, I'm going to go, so, there's been a united discussion, two points: - Final bill on amendments and additions to the Penal Code, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 147 - Final proposal for a law supplementing the Law on protection against domestic violence, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 153; In accordance with Article 153; 206. The Rules of Procedure adopted the proposal on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda for these legislative proposals to be discussed on an urgent basis. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article. 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Lawmaking, the Committee on Gender Equality, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and the Committee on Health and Social Policy. Now, I would like to ask the proposer's representative to give us an additional explanation of those laws. With us is Justice and Administration Minister Ivan Malenica. Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54548	The Honorable President of HS, the Honorable Vice-Presidents and Vice-Presidents, esteemed MPs and MPs. In front of you is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code and Proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Protection against Family Violence. As regards the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code, these amendments are transposed by the EU Directive of Parliament and of the Council on the fight against fraud and counterfeiting in relation to the non-cash means of payment and replacing Council Framework Decision 2001/413 into national legislation. In addition, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes amendments to the Penal Code in order to further strengthen mechanisms for the protection of victims and strengthen mechanisms for sanctioning perpetrators of criminal acts of violence against women and domestic violence. The adoption of these amendments will ensure stronger criminal protection of victims of violence and send a clear message that such behaviour is absolutely unacceptable and that it will be strictly sanctioned. As regards the transposition of Directive 2019/713 into national legislation, this provides for the addition of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 87 Penal Code, meaning of the expression of a non-cash payment instrument, complements the new criminal act of unauthorized possession of a non-cash payment instrument in art. 244th Penal Code. So this crime is being instituted as so-called. a target act incriminating the possession of a stolen or otherwise illegally acquired or forged non-cash payment instrument in which the acquisition of an illegal property benefit to itself or another is prescribed as a subjective feature of a criminal offence. It shall also be accompanied by a criminal offence against the counterfeiting of the document of art. 278 of the Penal Code by general clause or otherwise, and a qualified form of starting with other non-cash payment instruments. In addition, the criminal offence of the computer fraud referred to in Article 1 shall be complemented. 271 Penal Code. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 331 new criminal acts, production, procurement,.../incomprehensible/... sale or grant on the use of funds for the illegal acquisition of non-cash payment instruments will be prescribed. As regards the revision of Directive 2018/1673, the analysis of the Penal Code established compliance with the requirements of the Directive, therefore amendments and additions to the Criminal Code are not necessary in this section. In addition, these changes and additions to the criminal, criminal act of the war crime of the art. 91 The Penal Code shall be aligned with amendments and amendments. 8 The Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court with regard to the addition of new types of weapons. When it comes to strengthening the criminal protection of victims, the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall propose, by amending and supplementing the Penal Code, the following, the spread of the meaning of the term of the close person referred to in Article 6. 87th century 9 of the Penal Code to current or former partners in an intimate relationship. This amendment, I, this amendment will result in stronger criminal protection in the form of criminal prosecution of the perpetrators under official duty and the higher prescribed sentence of imprisonment when it comes to committing a criminal offence against the current or former partner in an intimate relationship. Then, the changes relate to redefining the procedural assumptions of persecution for the crime of sexual harassment of art. 156th century 3 of the Penal Code. By amending the Penal Code, it will be achieved that the act of sexual harassment will be prosecuted by official duty for all categories of victims. The consequent period of 3 months for the application of the offence as proposed by the victim will no longer apply to this offence. I would like to stress that by adopting this amendment, all crimes against sexual freedom will be prosecuted on official duty. The changes relate to prescribing a new criminal offence, abuse of footage of sexually explicit content in art. 144 of the Penal Code. This criminal offence will sanction the person who abuses the relationship of trust and without consent of the recorded person to make available to the third party a recording of sexual explicit content recorded with the consent of that person for personal use and thus harms its privacy. So it's about so-called. The crime of vengeful pornography. In Article 2 of this crime, one who uses the computer system and otherwise creates a new or modifies an existing video of sexual explicit content and uses the video as a right, thereby harming the privacy of the person in that video. It's about what happened. Deep fake of pornography, for this criminal offence is proposed to prescribe a prison sentence up to one year or a prison sentence of up to three years for a qualified form when the work is done through a computer system or network or otherwise, making the video available to a larger number of persons. The amendments to the KZ also relate to the extension of the criminal protection of guaranteed children through art. 173. KZ, it is a criminal offence to not implement a decision to protect the welfare of the child and other categories of vulnerable persons, to persons who are vulnerable because of their age, severe physical or mental disturbances or pregnancy, and to more precisely incriminalise inaction as a way of committing this crime. This would result in a timely failure to comply with the legal obligation or by clearly not acting according to the rules of the profession of the official or responsible person in the protection of the child or other vulnerable persons due to their age, severe physical or mental disturbance or pregnancy. The amendments also concern the revision of security measures in such a way as to propose mandatory enforcement of the security measure of mandatory psychosocial treatment and the security of remoteness from the common household, while retaining the conditions of danger on the part of the perpetrator at the time of the verdict and the mandatory imposition of a security measure prohibiting the carrying out of a certain duty or activity, provided that the risk of relapse or the risk of abuse of duties or activity of the perpetrator will be re-produced by the criminal offence referred to in the catalogue. The 71st century 3. KZ. The security measures referred to in Article 1 shall also be carried out in accordance with the KZ, full enforcement safeguards which have so far been applied ex-legislatively or under the letter of the law, are proposed to be prescribed in such a way as to refer the judgment to the court. This will lead to the launch of a new criminal offence in the event of a non-execution of the court decision of the Member State. 311. KZ. The amendments of the KZ also extend the catalogue of criminal offences which the criminal programme and the execution of the sentence do not go out of date on serious acts of sexual abuse and exploitation of the child from art. The 166th century 2. The KZ, the above amendments and additions, continue to strengthen the criminal justice policy for the protection of victims of violence adopted by HS in 2019. Amendments to the Law on criminal proceedings, criminal law and the Law on protection against domestic violence. As regards the amendment and addition of the Law on Protection against Family Violence, since the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the KZ proposes to extend the circle of close persons in such a way that the meaning of a close person is also covered by current or former intimate partners. This change certainly meant a stronger criminal protection of victims of criminal offences and for this reason it was important and important to harmonise the Law on protection against domestic violence and in the proposal to amend the law on the article, we have prescribed a circle of persons in which this law applies in a way that we have extended this to close partners or current or former partners in an intimate relationship. This supplement is also needed because of the possibility of applying a crime of violence in the family of the art. 179.a. of the KZ, which is prescribed as a blank disposition, which in its legal description points to a serious violation of the rules on protection against domestic violence. This means that someone would be the perpetrator of a crime of domestic violence must commit a more serious form of violation of the provisions of the Family Protection Act, and in order to be a violation of the provisions of the Law on protection against domestic violence, the perpetrator must be within the circle of the person to whom the Law on protection against domestic violence and application. Let me remind you that it has been changed since 2019. The entire series of KZ laws, the CAP and the Family Protection Act are improving the distinction and violation of the crime of domestic violence, the criminal act of sexual intercourse without consent has been abolished, a description of the crime of domestic violence is extended, i.e. the situation of long-term suffering has been introduced, and the punishment for violence in families of physical and serious physical injuries, mutilation of female sexual organs, fornication and sexual harassment has been increased. Here to end respected MPs and advocates, domestic violence, violence against women is a major social problem that requires a strong social response, and as responsible people and behavioural officials, we need to send a clear message that violence is not allowed in any form and that by accepting these amendments these two laws will ensure greater protection of victims and send a clear message to the violent people that violence will not be tolerated and that all the violent ones will answer for their misdeeds. After all this, I urge you to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54549	Thank you, Minister. Now we're going with the replicas, first up, colleague Katarina Nemett. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54550	Thank you. Dear Minister. Here I welcome the changes made to the KZ, especially in terms of abolishing the statute of limitations for serious acts of sexual abuse and child exploitation. This way I will repeat the appeal of the Ombudsman for children whom we had the opportunity to hear yesterday on the Committee on Human Rights, and it concerns the self-expression of such penalties, and so do I, as well as she, that the punishment for committing such crimes must not be a work for the common good. Only last year, 30 sexual abusers of children were replaced by work for the greater good. Do you agree with that and will you go in the direction of such changes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54551	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54552	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So, today we have a normative framework that leads to improvement and more effective protection, however, it is only the basis for further work of courts in all proceedings that come before courts and, of course, in agreement with all members of the working group, but also associations dealing with this problem, so we agreed on talks with both the Croatian Association of Judges and the Supreme Court, but also with the Judicial Academy to make their contribution after the entry into force of this Penal Code, or before the law enters into force to prepare a training programme for the judges themselves, where the representatives of the associations that participated in the adoption of this Law would actually, through one education, not only the judges, but also the lawyers, learn that this system, therefore, these regulations that we here today would be effective and in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54553	Comrade Selak Rasudic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54554	If we look at numbers, then we can notice that at the time of the pandemic, the system has completely broken down, so it is not implementing decisions to protect and benefit the child, Art. 173 The penal code, which you are now changing in these supplements, increased by an incredible 81% compared to the previous year. I'll repeat, so not 20, 30, 40, not 50%, which is all full, but 81%. For me, it is a sign that the system has completely broken down, that at the time of this pandemic children's rights did not exist because they were systematically broken. Do you have any information about what you have done not to repeat it and is anyone punished for not implementing a decision to protect and benefit a child?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54555	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54556	Thank you, Your Honor. So I'll agree with you that the time of the Covida-19 epidemic has certainly been reflected in this problem that we are discussing today, especially the area of domestic violence and violence against children, and we are actually through the amendments to the Penal Code further in this section of Article. 173 which you have considered, therefore, further strengthened that protection by prescribing this crime, or by not carrying out certain actions and not making decisions on the rights and well-being of children, so here I expect these amendments to the Penal Code will also result in changes in the manner of conduct and conduct of all officials or all decision-making officers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54557	Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54558	So here I want to express my support for these legal changes, but we are constantly going into some legal changes, and actually, implementation is where we have problems and often victims don't get satisfaction. Here, a colleague here said, how many sex offenders actually replace some kind of punishment for working for the common good, it's unacceptable. I'm here yesterday, and I can announce it here at HS, and I'm going to go into an extensive legislative initiative, a legal package that will protect children from sexual abuse, and we need an antipedophilic package that will bring stricter punishments for paedophiles, which will especially punish those who are responsible for raising children, so teachers, teachers, here, this left one will often say this, priests, so those who are responsible for raising children, for them particularly severe punishments, and also, that children are not forced into any kind of punishment. LGBTQ propaganda, sexual content [[Intruder: Thank you.]] to young children, what it is [[Intruder: Thank you, fellow Grumoja.]] Inadmissible without parental consent. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54559	Please stick to the time, for 10 seconds you've exceeded what's in the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54560	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Thus, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has also served penalties for the offences of sexual harassment and abuse, sexual abuse and exploitation of a child in previous amendments to the Penal Code, and we have prescribed that a serious act against sexual freedom, when the death of a child, so on. 166th century 3 of the Penal Code. Also, these amendments to the Penal Code stipulated that severe acts of sexual abuse and exploitation of a child will neither be outdated for persecution nor for the execution of punishment. I agree with you, so paedophilia is an unacceptable social problem that should certainly be systematically approached, so here we are constantly working on perfecting the Penal Code, not only the normative framework but also the training of judges, but also, all stakeholders in this court procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54561	A fellow Mazhar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54562	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS, Your Honor. Allow me, above all, to express my satisfaction and to congratulate both the Government of the Republic of Croatia and you as a resolute ministry for making this opportunity to amend and supplement both the Penal Code and the Law on the Protection of Family Violence, not only to transpose the Directive, but also to bring new offences, to extend the criminal protection of guaranteed children, but also to bring about changes that allow sexual freedom, crimes are conducted under official duty. I would also like to ask you for the interests of our citizens, and first of all, unfortunately for our victims, to explain what further concrete brings about the extension of the catalogue of criminal offences for which the prosecution is outdated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54563	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54564	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Therefore, this Penal Code is the result of the months-long work of a working group formed within the Ministry of Justice and Administration where, apart from members of the academic community, representatives of the ministries, the Ministry of Justice and Administration were representatives of associations dealing with this problem and thank you for this conclusion that a quality legal framework has been developed that will allow.../incomprehensible/... i.e. stronger protection of victims of domestic violence and violence against women. Also, what you pointed out is that we have a serious crime of sexual abuse and exploitation of a child from art. 162. The KZ, therefore, does not obsess over what is now part of just a few crimes that do not become obsolete according to our KZ and in this way we have given this issue importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54565	Comrade Vukovac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54566	Thank you. Dear Minister. The Republic of Croatia has been criticised by the European Court of Human Rights for its ineffective system of protection of victims of domestic violence, in particular with regard to the implementation of safeguards or security measures against perpetrators, with the fact that the legislator seeks to clearly distinguish the offence from criminal offences when it comes to the achievement of the characteristics of domestic violence and the practice of EU Member States. We are certainly objecting to the extremely mild practice of punishment by courts, the over-orientation of fines that are actually punishable by the whole family then, the equalization of victims and bullys by ultimately punishing them both. Could we actually do a lot more with these changes for the victim? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54567	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54568	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So, through these changes to the KZ, we have further strengthened three security measures that we are keeping extremely important and important, which is the obligation of psychosocial treatment, the obligation to distance from the common household and the sum of certain activities and activities, from now on they will be expressed obligatorically. We also have a security precautionary measure after the full execution, which will be pronounced when a verdict is reached, and whose disrespect will now constitute a new criminal offence. So with these changes to the KZ and this strengthening of security measures, we have certainly contributed to the fact that these security measures will be infused with certain fruits and in practice and result in stronger and greater protection of victims.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54569	Comrade Maric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54570	Thank you very much. Dear Minister. One part of the perpetrators of domestic violence are also mental patients, according to some 13% of the perpetrators are schizophrenic, followed by alcohol addiction. In all these measures that stand out in KZ are, in fact, people with severe mental illness are not suitable for psychosocial treatment, so we include people who are addicted to alcohol. And yet, according to some of the studies that I've seen almost 30% of those referred to treatment do not respond to treatment. How do you think these changes in the KZ will reduce this percentage of those who avoid treatment? Treatment must not be just a hospital can be an ambulatory treatment and throughout the day hospital. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54571	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54572	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, yes, what I have previously answered is that through these changes, we have further strengthened the security measures and especially what I have stated about the obligation of psychosocial treatment, and it is also related to it and to the security safeguard measure after the full execution where we now have if the person does not respect the security measure, so it is a new crime and will therefore be punished accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54573	Now she's going to speak to her colleague Bedekovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54574	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. First of all, I would like to welcome the adoption of amendments and additions to both of these laws by emergency procedure, and I would like to put emphasis on two elements. The first element, therefore, of the spread of a circle of close persons subject to the provisions of both laws to present and former partners in an intimate relationship, which will certainly strengthen the criminal protection of persons over whom domestic violence or sexual violence has been committed, which are above all women and children, should be put in greater emphasis and, of course, perpetrators will be prosecuted through criminal prosecution by official duty, but equally important element of eradicating this three-month period for the application of domestic violence or sexual abuse because we all know how often it takes time and courage to report this crime. And so once again I use the opportunity to invite all women to report violence.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54575	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54576	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Yes, through these changes of the KZ, in particular in this part, the expansion of the idea of close individuals to present or former partners in an intimate relationship has made a major step towards the protection of more criminal protection in the form of criminal prosecution both under official duty and with a higher prescribed sentence of imprisonment when it comes to committing a criminal offence against the current or former partner in an intimate relationship. It would also refer to your position and your call to actually encourage all victims to report the perpetrators of crimes. It is up to us to the HS and the Government as proposing that we have as high-quality a legislative framework as possible, and certainly in the courts to be quick and effective protection within the judicial process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54577	Comrade Pavić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54578	Thank you very much. Dear Minister. What I must conclude is that it is truly commendable that we have set out in these amendments and supplementing the law in an emergency procedure, given the problem that is being addressed and I would like to draw attention to the problems that concern what is under this law trying to solve, and in fact, on the other hand, to IT security. You mentioned the chastity of the video-recording work that was recorded in the privacy of some rooms, it's hard to prove who made those records available, and I don't know if there's enough to make sure that there's no abuse going on. I think that perhaps a little more should be taken into account in phase two and that perhaps IT experts working in the MUP and you in the ministry should work on it a little bit because there really is a very high possibility. On the other hand, I would also ask that further work be done on child pornography security.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54579	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54580	Thank you very much. Yes, I agree with you, so this new crime of art. 144.a. KZ's abuse of footage of sexual explicit content is a criminal offence, and in fact, the Republic of Croatia has placed itself on the side of only a few EU member states that have this prescribed criminal offence, so this must be the beginning of punishing and sanctioning these situations. Surely there will be problems in practice, however, it is important to start with a legislative framework, and I believe that court practice in court proceedings will also provide answers to some of the questions that you have raised here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54581	Now it's time for my colleague, Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54582	Dear Ministers, we also welcome the changes in the Penal Code, and indeed, we have turned our backs on women, but here, however, things are getting better and I think it's very important a few changes, not only of these changes, which we call a close person, an intimate person, an ex or present person, it's very good that we've changed that too, and so someone might call it small things, but we can see how things look in the judiciary if something doesn't define itself well. I'd like to look back here and look at exactly one definition, and you said, fortunately, we're not going to record it that way, which is revenge pornography. I think it's very important to keep an eye on that syntagma because then, as if there were non-vengeful pornography, we enter another field. I'm curious, we're talking about a video of a sexually explicit content, that we're not going back in from this modern part, that we're forgetting that both sharing and abuse Photo and other material of explicit content [[Intruder: Thank you.]] You're supposed to punish? [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54583	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54584	Thank you very much. So we talked about your observations within the working group and the attitude that we were in the context of, that under the concept of video we could subscribe and photograph, so through the notion of video of sexually explicit content, so we would subdue and photograph, so the courts will be able to deal with this definition in the case of, therefore, photography, but would also refer to your commentary, yes, for the first time we are introducing this new criminal act and I believe that in practice there will be certain questions, however, we have to start with this and start with something and I believe that it will be crystallised, so also the conduct of courts or competent state attorneys when it comes to video of sexual explicit content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54585	And the last line, colleague Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54586	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Minister, here are these amendments to the Penal Code. 31 are more clearly defined in non-cash payment instruments. In fact, we are aware of the fact that new instruments are emerging in life, often both in digital, physical form and in combination, and it is now very important to define them, so the cards and use of computer programs, therefore certain illicit actions that can be damaged either by an individual or by a legal person.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54587	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54588	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Yes, in addition to these major and important changes relating to the protection and fight against domestic violence, empowerment of sanctioning mechanisms for perpetrators of criminal offences, these amendments to the criminal law also apply to the transposition of European legislation, especially in the part of the non-cash payment instrument, we believe that through these legal changes we will also regulate this problem and that we will sanction all criminal offences that are committed in connection with the cash-free means of payment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54589	Thank you, Minister, you can return to your post. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. counterpart Selar Rasudic, president of the Committee on Gender Equality. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54590	The Committee on Gender Equality at the 12th session held on 1 July 2021 discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code, as well as the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Protection against Family Violence with the Final Proposal for a Law. So, we had a united discussion about these two legislative changes and I'll just say briefly that in the debate that followed the commended proposed amendments and additions. It is a pleasure to note what the profession, NGOs, the Attorney's Office, and our committee have warned about. In fact, the changes will allow sexual harassment to be prosecuted by official duty, and will also allow for better protection of victims of domestic violence. On the other hand, it was also once again noted and warned that the delaying of the amendments to the law of several months left victims of sexual harassment. After the debate, the Committee on Gender Equality is unanimous, 10 votes to propose to HS the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code, as well as the adoption of a proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Protection against Family Violence with a final draft law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54591	Thank you. Would anyone else like to take a word from the committee reporter? If not, then I ask you to stay, colleague Selar Rasdic, because I am opening the debate, and the first is the Club of Representatives of the Mosta on whose behalf you speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54592	There is certainly an agreement that we have welcomed these legislative changes and that we will believe, which will be a rare practice in HS all with enthusiasm and in the final vote. However, of course the law is not enough and, of course, the law very often remains a dead letter on paper, and in some ways the question is whether it is the easiest to change the law and thus send a formal message to the victims, while in practice what they really do is far beyond what they can even understand within these legal changes, that nothing concrete happens. In this regard, I would also like to highlight several problems and several solutions concerning these legal changes. The first thing I'm going to say is that we expected more active and informative, but also the effective activity of all government offices and other bodies in the country to combat violence against children. Namely, the data that we have warned here, because competent services are not in the sense of raising public awareness of the problem, and the fact that this problem is being contained, did their job well enough, suggests the following, that the increase in child exploitation for pornography is 30% in the pandemic year. Perhaps that is to be expected, given that life has shifted online, but what I have asked here as a question, which the minister has not given me an answer, and regarding the concrete legal changes in which we are discussing today is an article. 173 that the system broke down, so the non-implementation of a decision to protect the child's well-being increased by an incredible 81%. We didn't get an answer here who's to blame? Who did not implement the decision to protect and benefit the child? How is it possible that such an increase in the non-implementation of that decision? This law, which we are now changing, reportedly supplementing, may best show us how useless the law can be in terms of its practical application and the direct benefits of citizens. There was still a legal article concerning the welfare of the child, and now we will improve it, and about why it did not apply in practice we did not hear who was responsible. Has anyone been sanctioned? From this constituency, I ask an unequivocal answer to an important social question that needs to be sanctioned for not implementing a decision to protect and benefit a child. Someone here screwed it up systematically. And we want to know who it is and how it will be possible not to repeat it in the future. Another problem that is quite serious and is also systematic which I want to warn you about, and this when I say it, means that whether institutions have not done their job or institutions have not sanctioned those who have not allowed children's rights to be exercised in due time, whether they are parents or so on. So in any case, there is a systemic problem and no one is punished. Second, it means how statistics on violence against women and domestic violence are interpreted. We have a paradoxical situation that when numbers say that the increase in violence is dramatic, the MUP applauds itself to do a good job. According to them, the Ministry of the Interior has continued to standardise behaviour, monitor the direction of police officers' work, conduct continuous education of police officers and preventive activities, and participate in sensitisation of the public, encouraging citizens to report suspicion of abuse. Therefore, the results of the efforts made are found in an increased number of detected crimes of domestic violence committed to the harm of children. What does that mean? Or a woman, when the numbers are bad, the system works well, and when they're dramatic, then I guess the system is brilliant. This misleading, or well-intentioned interpretation of self-inflicted argument is repeatedly repeated when we talk about violence against women, violence against children and domestic violence, so it's time for him to finally be demystified, in order to know that we have a problem, first I have to raise awareness of the problem and then we can solve it, by denying it we won't get anywhere. If it is true that the figures are growing because the employees of the MUP who are in the absence of professional staff anyway, and at the time of the pandemic overcrowded tasks related to Croatian headquarters, are doing better their job, what does it tell us about those numbers that are falling? For example, sexual abuse of a child under the age of 15 in 2020 fell by 46%. From 435 cases to 235. Finally some good news, we would say, but the M.O.P. logic would mean that the system has failed because we have a dramatic decline in the application of sexual exploitation of children. Of course it doesn't make sense and the truth is simple. We have not perfected the system, especially at the time of the pandemic when it, like everything else, is on appliances, but the children and women are as the most vulnerable and unprotected group to which these legal changes have remained at the mercy of their abusers. It's time to face it and react urgently to stop this trend. Ladies and gentlemen, I keep getting the same arguments from the MUP that they say, that violence is growing, which means we're doing our job better. Let's think about if it's really true. Secondly, we have proposed concrete measures to respond, at the time of the pandemic and this time that has hit us with other difficulties, including natural disasters such as earthquakes, to make it easier to report violence, sanction criminals, and to help victims. We have proposed to trace the Austrian model for the establishment of a crisis headquarters that would deal with the prevention of increased domestic violence and the location of material resources for its work or at least the crisis headquarters of mental health experts. Nothing to anyone. We have requested further investment in media propaganda that will point to centres, counselling centres, SOS phones to which victims or potential victims can address. Now he's just moving something. We pointed to alternative opportunities for reporting violence, France and Spain included pharmacies, some countries also developed an application that silently informs about violence. This is a particular problem when we talk about violence within families of vulnerable social groups that are particularly exposed, such as people with disabilities and older age. At the time of the earthquake, at the time of the pandemic only they are unable to report violence to the usual channels. As for the MUP calendar and the publication of data on the violence of an important tool that should be useful to us all, daily reports are not enough. Publicly available weeks and months are needed, so reports that provide comparative analysis are at least compared to the previous year in order to respond quickly. You all know that on many occasions I have come out publicly with some kind of comparative analysis and a warning of some disturbing trends. Well, it's no way for me to keep calling, harassing M.O.P. officers to get me the data. These data should be made available to everyone in the regular cycle so that all parliamentary representatives and interested citizens can interpret them. And this is that I'm walking from a calendar that I've even had the will to do, but most people won't have to see the problem taking us nowhere in the long run. If we have created some tools such as the calendar of domestic violence let's finally implement them in practice that they can really help us detect the problem and offer their solutions. Let's go back to the basic problem, welcome the legislative changes that is an important step, but we must bear in mind that 90% of the penalties imposed are only conditional. We therefore need a transparent monitoring of the judicial proceedings, their duration of the sentence imposed with a view to fostering its effectiveness. We keep going back to the same problem, throwing a dead letter on the paper what we had earlier, and the same protection of the victims was a dead letter on paper. Now we have a little more letters, we are happy as a legislative body for sure, but practice says 90% of them pass the lichen. And what we're going to do to change that, that's our fundamental question, that's what citizens outside of this studio debate are going to call for certain legal provisions and which most citizens will not be clear or will in practice be directly concerned. We should see what happened to SOS lines that were established during the root crisis to see what problems our citizens face and what a real situation on the ground and who used them and reported violence. Finally, what we hope for, and what I wish for, is stronger inter-resorial cooperation, overcoming political differences and establishing between committee cooperation, and here we have worked closely with the Committee on Media and the Committee on Education when it comes to sexual harassment, which I will look more closely at with concrete recommendations in the individual debate. So we also need a combination of NGOs statistics, official MUP statistics, the work of all committees and us together to solve this problem in practice, not just a dead letter on paper.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54593	Thank you very much. We're going to a second exhibition on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, a respected colleague of Anja Chimprag's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54594	The Honorable President of HS, respected ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Today, we have already seen the sixth amendments and additions to the KZ adopted in 2011, and the main reason for this is the harmonisation of national criminal legislation with the acquis of the EU. Many adjustments were necessary in the course of EU accession negotiations, but changes were frequent before that, and after that, the legislative activity was not exacerbating. Constant amendments to the law cannot compensate for the lack of quality of norm, only leave the wrong impression that things are improving, and which is not often the case. Some legal theorists have proposed that a rule be introduced as an unwritten code that the new law should not be amended or complemented over a period of at least three years from the moment of entry into force. In this way, we might prevent the legislator from amending and supplementing the law within a very short period of time, and sometimes even in time before the same law enters into force. Legislative activity is important but hasty approach to such sensitive matter is what we must try to avoid anyway. The hyperproduction of the law does not contribute to legal certainty or to the legal order of the state, and the regulation of that legal substance in several laws is condemned to permanent changes, complements, mutual alignments, and for example today's proposal for a law to supplement the Law on protection against domestic violence relating to the extension of the concept of a close person to intimate partners. Although these amendments and the addition of the KZ are in line with European legislation, which is somehow put in the first place, I believe that the central place still takes up redefining the procedural assumption of the prosecution of the act of sexual harassment from art. 156. The KZ is being deleted by a provision that prescribed the prosecution of this crime on the proposal. The subject matter will be achieved that the criminal act of sexual harassment is being prosecuted by official duty for all categories of victims, in addition to this amendment and addition will result in the absence of obsolescence of criminal persecution by the Member States. 81. The KZ and the non-exhaustion of the execution of the sentence of the Article. 83. KZ for serious acts of sexual abuse and child exploitation. The most important news is the abolition of the current rule under which the proposal for persecution can be submitted within three months of the date on which the authorised natural or legal person has learned of the offence and the perpetrator. Since it has been shown in practice that the three-month period in question for the submission of a proposal for prosecution is too short, particularly from the perspective of the victim's mental willingness to submit a proposal for persecution, and given the specificity and sensitivity of the criminal offence of sexual harassment, amendments have been proposed to ensure the prosecution of the perpetrator of this offence for all categories of victims under official duty. All crimes against sexual freedom will also be prosecuted by official duty. Likewise, one who sexually harasses another person to whom he is in charge or who is treated with addiction or who is particularly vulnerable to his age, illness, disability, addiction, pregnancy, or some mental disorder will be punished by the law for up to two years. It should be said that for the first time in Croatia, the conduct of these amendments and the addition of the KZ will be a separate criminal offence. Existing KZ in Art. 144. Determining as a criminal offence, unauthorized imagery, or punishment by one year is punishable by one who unauthorizedly records the person or distributes the content. But pornography is usually about recording with consent, and then this intimate content is shared and published without consent. The proposed order of punishment for the perpetrators of sexual harassment may have been needed before, unfortunately we needed the trigger from the beginning of this year when students and students, some of them and former members of the Zagreb University encouraged and complained that they were victims of sexual harassment. Unfortunately, once again, in most of their cases, according to the current law, it was obsolete and the perpetrators would most likely avoid the hand of justice. Sexual abuse has been a major problem for our society over the past two years, shelters for victims of violence have been established in six counties where there have been no and a phone has been introduced that will be available 24 hours to support victims of violence. In the fight against abuse, but also the fight against such provisions that have been proposed not to remain a dead letter on paper can definitely help the initiative to establish family departments at municipal courts in county courts by the end of the year, to create an eyewitness of the perpetrators of criminal and criminal acts in the area of domestic violence and to access to a special strategic document to combat sexual violence. I must mention the article. 325, which refers to a public incentive to violence and hatred directed towards a group of people because of their racial, religious, ethnicity or other traits. Unfortunately, these messages, which can be covered by this article, are also heard in the Assembly, and are directed towards us by representatives of the Serb national minority and other minorities. The sentence of prison is provided for up to three years, as will the same punishment for those who publicly approve or deny the crime genocide against humanity directed towards a group of people for their racial, religious or other belongings. Recently, we have witnessed the statements of a fellow parliamentary representative who denied Jadovno, Jasenovac, which only shows how little these provisions are respected and how they should be made explicit especially when it comes to the greatness of the constitution or its related ideology or movement. I hope this is all I said we'll discuss in this house soon. The goal of all of us should be to reduce violence in any form, to make it so socially unacceptable, that punishments are so much that they change the behavior of a bully. These amendments and the additions of the KZ with the final draft laws adopted in the emergency procedure are of great importance and will therefore support this proposal by the SDSS Representatives' Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54595	Thank you. Now you should speak on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club of Croatian counterparts, but I don't see that there is, therefore, losing his right to speak, so we move on to the fourth club of representatives that is IDS and respected colleague Katarina Nemet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54596	Thank you. Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, the honourable ministers with their associates. I will refer to several segments, i.e. the provisions and articles of the law on changes and supplements of the KZ we are discussing today, which relate to sanctioning family violence, child abuse and child abuse, and abuse of partners most often by abuse of sexually explicit content. It is about very specific criminal acts that have a particular common link, which are intruding into a very sensitive topic, which is why they should certainly be approached very, very carefully, and in this context the adoption of a legal framework for sanctioning the perpetrators of criminal offences. In fact, the crimes of child abuse and exploitation of children of domestic violence and sexual harassment of any kind are not just a one-time act that is brought about and easily forgotten, but it is very often a sort of process that takes place during a certain longer or shorter period of time, and such crimes often leave great, terrible, traumatic consequences for the victim. On the other hand, the victims of these crimes are often subjected to one way or another in a dependent relationship with the abuser, or perpetrator, so that their victim is often covered by silence, and the crimes pass under radar far from the public eye. Adding to the fact that victims of these forms of abuse and physical and psychological violence are often identified as part of the guilt itself is rarely brought down on the victim, which is completely insane. No wonder a good part of such crimes does not go unreported and unpunished. I welcome the fact that part of the provisions of these amendments and of the supplementation of the KZ go in a somewhat better and more appropriate way to protect victims and to a more rigorous relationship with perpetrators or abusers. In doing so, I see a stricter attitude towards the perpetrators of the crimes in this domain not only as a purpose, but I deeply hope that it will also have its own certain preventive weight and at least demotise potential abusers and abusers in some way. I am aware of, of course, how small the shifts are, but how every time the longest time begins with the first step in good faith I will welcome the changes proposed by these amendments and by the additions of the law. I am primarily in favour of the amendment to be made in art. In the 74th century, 1st century, 1st century, 1st century, 1st century, 1st century, 1st century, 1st century, 1st century, 1st century, 1st century, 1st century, 1st century, 1st century, 1st century, 1st century, 1st century, 1st century, 1st, 1st, 1st century, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st. The KZ prescribes mandatory expression of the security measure of distance from the common household, while retaining the high level of risk that, without implementing this security measure, the perpetrator may commit violence against a member of the joint household. It is good, then, that the domestic abuser is now away from the household or environment in which his victim is located, but it is necessary to see how this provision will be implemented and how effective it will be in practice. I also particularly support the abolition of the age of serious acts of sexual abuse of a child as the only logical move of the promoter, with the observation that this should have been done long ago, which I have already talked about for some time, and I have urged that the law should be amended in this particular segment, with the fact that, in my opinion, the statute of limitations should be abolished not only for the most serious crimes against the child but for any criminal act aimed at harming children as the most vulnerable and sensitive group in society, because I believe that we will agree, any form of abuse of child abuse on these vulnerable creatures, will leave lasting consequences and trauma and rarely destroy some young future life at the very beginning. There's no price, and there's no statute of limitations. I'll also welcome what's in the Penal Code, as a prison punishable category, included and misused footage of sexually explicit content. It's about an increasingly present phenomenon in the era of all available digital technologies. When photos and videos of everything and everything, and even intimate relationships are almost part of everyday life. The problem arises when one party decides for any reason or initiative to abuse such explicit content and make it publicly available or made available to third parties without the consent of the person on which they were located. It's about a broader social phenomenon, so-called vengeful pornography which many countries have already recognized as a criminal offence and are adequately sanctioned, so it is a good thing that Croatia did, and all in that way, better ever than never. And at the very end, I'm going to add more paper to everything. Many laws are well or relatively well written, but the problem is when a dead letter is left on paper. I therefore find it extremely important that the provisions and sanctions of this Law are consistently applied, that they be fully implemented in practice, especially in the part of the provisions that I have set out in my speech today, because, I will repeat once again, it is a really specific and delicate problem, or criminal acts that relate to these issues concerning very sensitive victims who are often powerless in front of the perpetrator and abuser, so all of us as a society have the obligation and responsibility to do everything in our power to protect them and prevent them from being injured. This amended Law, with all its good and less good things, is one of the tools that should help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54597	Thank you, too. We are going to the 5th debate, the House Movement Representatives Club and the esteemed colleague, Ruzica Vukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54598	The Honorable president of HS, respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Therefore, the draft law amending and supplementing the Penal Code proposes the 6th amendment of the law, and the reason for this is the harmonisation of national criminal law with the acquis of the EU. The coordination should be carried out in the field of combating fraud and counterfeiting in relation to non-cash payment instruments in order to strengthen or more effective criminal protection of victims of sexual harassment, the procedural assumption of persecution for the crime of sexual harassment from art will also be redefined. 156 The Penal Code will also revise the security measures for the prohibition of the exercise of certain duties or activities and protective supervision after the full execution of the sentence of the prison and propose a mandatory statement of the security measure of mandatory psychosocial treatment and the security measure of distance from the common household. The significant change proposed refers to the prerogative of the non-determination of serious acts of sexual abuse and child exploitation. Also, a new incrimination of the abuse of sexually explicit content is proposed, as is the revision of the criminal offence of non-implementation of a decision to protect the child's well-being and to extend the importance of a close person's expression. The remaining changes are the result of the removal of the shortcomings observed, the lack observed in the practice of applying the Penal Code, which should certainly be commended. However, could these changes have been done primarily for victims of domestic violence? Today, domestic violence is recognised as a global problem that violates the fundamental human rights of family members, and the international community has taken the view that domestic violence is considered unacceptable and criminal behavior. It is also a serious violation of fundamental human rights, and it is precisely a protection against violent behavior in the family of the Institute, which is governed by the provisions of public law. International acts governing such a form of violation of fundamental human rights have been implemented in the legal system of the state and thus, the positive law of the Republic of Croatia, as well as numerous domestic documents regulate the issue of domestic violence in relation to the protection of human rights. Despite international and European acts implemented in domestic legislation, however, there remains an open question of the extent to which the victim of domestic violence by organisations and institutions in the Republic of Croatia is today secured, and whether they provide sufficient support and assistance to counter violence against women and domestic violence. Finally, the question arises whether the state is in an appropriate and effective way through rules that regulates domestic violence. I would briefly compare the regulation of domestic violence in the EU Member States in relation to the regulation of violence in the Republic of Croatia. In Austria, the federal law on protection against violence has laid the basic protection of victims of domestic violence. It covers all cases of violence between the people who live together, and the police are authorized to ban the approach and remove the bully from the common home in accordance with the principle, the one who strikes must leave. For violations of the prohibition, fines are prescribed, in the event of further infringement, arrest may be made, and threats or injuries to the person at risk are followed by prosecution. The same provision protects a child under 14 years of age as a victim of domestic violence in such a way as to enable the imposed prohibitions to cover schools and other institutions for child care that the perpetrator must not get close to less than 50 m. The Austrian Penal Code, along with other violent offences, is prescribed stricter punishment for persistent violent conduct. So, long - term violence, which is often the case with domestic violence. Victims of violence who have already exercised the right to psychosocial support and legal assistance in criminal proceedings can also exercise the right to represent and in a litigation procedure which is in fact related to a criminal offence, e.g. in the matrimonial procedure. The penal aspects of protection against domestic violence in Switzerland include various acts, e.g. The murder, the threat, the sexual acts that are being prosecuted by official duty and when otherwise not prescribed by law, thus facilitating the position of the victim, which does not have to file a report. The concept of domestic violence is quite broadly defined, and it refers to any victim of behavior that is considered domestic violence independent of any connection with the perpetrator. And what is the legal regulation in the Republic of Croatia? So the criminal and criminal provisions, as well as the judicial bang, have not been crystallized by the Institute of Family Violence until today, are partly subdued by the KZ, and one part by the criminal, which is a difficult circumstance in terms of psychological, verbal and physical violence. In this direction, the Republic of Croatia has been criticised by the European Court of Human Rights for its inefficient system of protection of victims of domestic violence, particularly as regards the implementation of safeguards or security measures against perpetrators. However, despite the above-mentioned and legal regulation and insisting on the urgency of the activities of the competent authorities, the same is not recognised in practice and especially in the part where empathy is required towards the victim of domestic violence. The lack of haste at the time of the first form of domestic violence, all this leads to the conclusion that the victim of domestic violence is left to the mere happiness when he calls on the authorities to act. Will a police officer, at the moment of knowledge of the perpetrator of domestic violence, act without an extensive determination of the facts and will indeed determine that there is a reasonable suspicion that a crime of domestic violence has been committed? Are professional services that are required to support women victims of domestic violence competent in providing such protection? Do they treat all victims in the same way? Can the prescribed criminal and criminal sanctions of domestic violence really be considered sufficient as necessary measures aimed at preventing crime and protecting victims from violence? On the issues raised above, the practice provides a negative answer. So I find it justified to ask the question, could we have done more with these changes? I'd like to set aside two more important things that I think the minister still needs to hear. In the face of domestic violence and, in most cases, the police who are investigating the person are going out and have the right to immediately state the prohibition of access. But very often since in practice these cases do not necessarily remain an empty space until the case is brought to trial and only a guilty judge should ultimately decide on it. In infringement proceedings where the indictment proposal is submitted by the ICJ, they do not attend the debates and often the victim of violence remains alone, so the victim who is in the process has the position of the injured and has no defenders. Can we consider the possible formation of special teams or authorised prosecutors by the MUP where their obligation to properly represent the victim of violence could be established? Victims of violence are often questioned in the presence of the defendants, i.e. They are not allowed to be specifically questioned but are sitting in a courtroom next to each other. It's rare that buildings can afford a separate space or an interview through a video connection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54599	We now move to debate number six, respected colleague Rada Boric on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54600	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate. The Green-Left Club welcomes the changes and additions both as a feminist and as a 30-year-old activist in the fight for women's rights, in particular, and I also welcome all those women's associations and all those individuals and individuals who led the continuous and lead the fight for the promotion and protection of women's human rights and certainly these changes were also created by special activities of women's associations to protect women from gender-related violence. Croatia has also ratified the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and in the Family, the one that is the famous Istanbul Convention which we still hear absolutely inappropriate voices about, as well as from this assembly that threatens us in this assembly, but this Convention is crucial, in particular, Art. 35. where it requires legislative measures to be taken to ensure the incrimination of the intentional conduct of acts of physical violence against another person. When it comes to the need to ensure this incrimination of conventions, that is precisely what Selak is talking about criminally, not breaking legislation, and we know that so far violence against women and violence in the family has grown bigger, so here's a colleague who just spoke about statistics that we have from the police still see only the statistically large number of violations and we know very well in the offences has often been equalized by violations of public order and peace and abusers and victims, and it was necessary to change that and fortunately changes that. Therefore, the Convention is now in favour of talking about criminal, not breaking legislation, since the purpose of the Convention is to protect women of all forms of violence and to prevent the persecution and removal of violence against women and domestic violence. Therefore, the jurisdiction of criminal law is just the result of the Article. 55th Convention. The further purpose of the Convention, and I hope that is the purpose of this Convention. The aim of Croatian society is to help combat all forms of discrimination against women and promote full equality between women and men. Therefore, the real implementation of this ratified Convention in order to contribute to the repression, persecution and removal of violence by the Republic of Croatia cannot be done only through a broken legal framework, so we are pushing for a stronger criminal justice mechanism with stronger, of course, prevention and, in particular, education. Until a stronger legal framework occurs, even violence against women won't stop, and we'll be amazed only by new forms, such as that form, I don't know, use, here, we've been talking video of explicit sex for the purpose of blackmailing women or embarrassing women. What's important here to say, that a few, so I'm just going to take a brief look at these additions and changes themselves, so we welcome that very amendment and addition of the article. 156 related to sexual harassment, the processing of sexual or sexual harassment, also through a misdemeanor procedure, was a banalization of serious violence itself. When we say sexual or sexual harassment and we have reduced ourselves by a syntax that harassment is something that is less than sexual abuse. When I say harassment, we look in it, and you saw that it was said that the act must be repeated in order to have some weight, therefore, we are looking for a permanent verb not to upset but to disturb, so we know both the legal language and, of course, how lawyers will behave and that they will find in their language what suits them not to give the abuser a more inappropriate punishment than we think. We think it's extremely important that it is and that it is also in this article of ours. 156 comply with the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and with the Istanbul Convention, in particular with the Art. 40 in which there is what form of work is and what kind of work is, and I hope we've solved the key thing here too, which is that it's not an outdated work, i.e. that the act of sexual harassment must be reported within 3 months. We all know from the experiences of women that in 3 months it is not, that 3 months is not enough time, not only that a woman recovers at least a little from the trauma that happened to her but also to encourage and give her to another, or to someone else, with support, to encourage her to report violence. What also worries, yes, here when it comes to the fact that 3 months is too short a time, here you should also say that you should not only talk if you refer to the parent's relations of power, sexual abuse and harassment most often happens in the working environment. So a woman is not 3 months old enough to assess the consequences of her application. Whether he loses his job and what happens, but also, we don't think there must always be just relationships maybe, power, if it happens in a working environment. It may be and I don't know, co-worker, but the very decision that a woman will expose herself to, what kind of stigma, requires another time, and we welcome her to get rid of that too, without saying, of course, that crimes of sexual nature against children should not become obsolete. If the Law on the Rights of Victims of Sexual Violence says that violence against women, sexual violence, rape in war don't go out of date, that it's a crime against humanity, then we should really work to ensure that every sexual abuse of women, where there's a very thin limit to whether it's harassment, abuse and rape, whether women are going to conceal maybe everything that happened to them, can we talk about whether or not such obsolescence should be. In particular, we see it in children, that children report abuses in early youth as adults when they have also worked on trauma or when they have been supported by others. So we really consider that so-called. Only sexual harassment should be punished in prison for up to 3 years. We think they're usually punishments for sexual predators, even those who disturb, that they're too small and I won't say that they encourage such overbearing punishments, I can also encourage future abusers because they can say, so what, maybe I don't get, and maybe I get what we heard today, is whether, socially useful work for something that will leave lasting consequences for both women and children. Women, show world statistics, heal traumas related to sexual violence, so without an assessment of what kind of violence and why women only talk about partial maybe, types of violence, so they need some other time and work with that trauma. So we have to count on women on average taking 20 years, and we see that children need a lot more to become adults, that they've worked on trauma, that they can tell what happened to them in childhood. So no one's only in favour of penalization, but if we're still going to end up being punished or being less than for some violations in criminal proceedings, we're indirectly encouraging future abusers of all kinds. But of course I'm advocating for education, I'm advocating primary school education, especially with regard to sexual education, which we also resent. It is a place and a time where children will learn how to treat them and their body is acceptable or unacceptable. It's very important that we have a parallel education, so prevention, we're talking about a protection that's not enough for women. victims of violence or children, but we think it's [[Intruder: Thank you.]] the key to talking about it. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54601	We are now going to debate number seven on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representative Club will speak to the respected representative Marijana Puljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54602	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Today we are talking about the sixth change in the KZ since it entered into force on 1 January 2013. The main reason for these changes is the harmonisation of national criminal legislation with the EU acquis on the fight against fraud, counterfeiting of cash-free payments, the fight against money laundering and similar parts, but here as well as these predecessors before me and the predecessors I will concentrate and welcome the changes concerning the treatment of sexual harassment and sexual harassment. In view of the official statistics of the MUP in 2019, 35 reports of sexual harassment were recorded throughout the year, year before 2018 30, and only at the beginning of this year we had two weeks less than 30 reports if you remember 30 reports of cases of sexual harassment, more so than all year. The applications came from the university, there were applications on HRT as well, so we held meetings and thematic sessions of the board. So on HRT, we were just talking to the director who just got arrested yesterday for some other misdemeanors, but on HRT, cases were described when the victim faced the perpetrator himself, so meetings with victims of violence and sexual harassment were organized in which they faced the bully. So, after a series of testimony about the sexual violence that came out in the open at the beginning of the year, aside from verbal support for victims of violence, it is our duty and that, from this place as the highest representative, legislative body, we take steps to strengthen institutions and tools that would be much more protected by victims of violence. Sexual violence is not just physical violence with profound and severe consequences left on the victim’s psyche, and in a traumatic experience, it is extremely difficult for them to talk and seek help. Therefore, as a society, we are obliged to create a secure environment and provide them with the highest possible standard of protection. Despite its possible clear legislative framework, some shifts to a better victim protection system in Croatia may not be functional enough. Once the victims are encouraged to talk, they are often exposed to secondary victimization or blame, but also to legal obstacles that prevent adequate punishment for the perpetrator. The aim for us as a society should certainly be to reduce violence, to offer a legal framework that will give both the courts and the entire judicial system an opportunity to show by their actions and that violence finally becomes truly socially unacceptable. So, I welcome these amendments and additions, which suggest redefining the prosecution of the sexual harassment crime in such a way as to delete the provision of an article enforcing the prosecution of this act on the proposal, or that it is being prosecuted by official duty for all categories of victims and all crimes against sexual freedom. So this is a step forward in defining the legal framework, I'm sorry that this step has not been taken before. We had a few months ago and a proposal for opposition in this direction, but here were these changes. We particularly welcome the amendment regarding the prescribing of the non-obsolescence of serious acts of sexual abuse of a child. In Croatia, very few condemnative convictions for the crimes of sexual harassment and violence are recorded. According to the D.A.'s office, it's only a few at the annual level, so it's not a rare case even if the sexual harassment trial ends up in favor of the perpetrator. The punishment for committing such acts especially towards children, therefore sexual abuse of children must not be a work for the common good, we have heard here that such judgments are also made. The minister here also announced a programme of education for judges and lawyers in order to make the rules effective and in practice, the penalties for such misdemeanors should be so much that the behavior of a bully changes or prevents them from committing new misdemeanours. We also welcome the amendments to the criminal offence of not implementing a decision on the protection of the child's well-being and the precision of the conduct of the official or responsible person representing a criminal offence, as well as the spread of the criminal protection of the guaranteed article. 173. KZ. We also welcome the introduction of a new criminal offence of the abuse of footage of sexual explicit content, or so on. Vengeance porn. We heard from the prime minister that he announced that by the end of the year family departments will be established at municipal courts in the county courts' headquarters, it is planned to produce eyewitnesses of the perpetrators of domestic violence and criminal acts and to join the development of a special strategic document to combat sexual violence that will be adopted at the beginning of next year. Here's hoping that's the way it's gonna be. What is a big problem in Croatia is that most of the laws we have well-complicated, and here we welcome these changes, but in practice and in the application of these laws we kind of fall, and there are no sanctions for not implementing the law. Another word in the end about education is what we really need to work on and education that is the basis for changes in our society, so health education and education since 2018. in our education system, it is implemented as an issue of health for primary and secondary schools. We asked here at one of these thematic sessions and from the Ministry of Science and Education to present the representative cause of primary and secondary school students, their teachers carry out scientific research on levels of adopted knowledge in the field of health education with a special emphasis on sexual education. The research should also gather the needs of pupils of educational workers and schools related to the health in question, we should expect that the research should be conducted by independent institutions of scientists from the universities of scientific institutes, and the data collected from scientific knowledge can be the basis for the establishment of public policies aimed at reducing gender-based unwanted behaviour. So here I am calling on the Minister of Science and Education to accept this proposal, he said the research would be conducted, so here we hope that this research will soon see the light of day. Therefore, improvements are possible only by quality and quality education in recognising violence and timely response, and then by using all available mechanisms to ensure the comprehensive protection of victims. So I hope that these changes will not only remain a dead letter on paper but will indeed be implemented in practice and that we will actually influence that violence really becomes socially unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54603	We are now going to the eighth debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club will speak to a respected colleague, Marija Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54604	Thank you very much. The Honorable President of HS, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here is a proposal to amend and supplement the Penal Code, and I would like to thank the minister with his associates first and foremost for having fulfilled the promise that we made a few months ago when we refused the SDP Club proposal to go to those points of change and to add KZ to only one item. 156, because at the time we said that and justified that it had already been in the making of this much more comprehensive amendment and supplementation of the KZ, and indeed because KZ is one of the important laws in our legislation, organic law is not good for the sake of legal certainty that we go every little bit into its changes and additions. So here I am pleased that today we are talking about this whole change in the KZ that includes this proposal that improves the criminal protection of victims of sexual harassment which is really in everyone's best interest. In addition, what we have said and then said about these amendments and additions is the transposition of Directive 2019/713 which has been achieved in this proposal in a way that complements Article. 87. KZ means the expression of a non-cash payment instrument. Furthermore, it is proposed to supplement the KZ with the new criminal act of illegal possession of a cash-free payment instrument in art. 244, and as so-called. by means of a targeted act incriminating possession of stolen or otherwise unlawfully acquired or forged non-cash payment instrument in which the acquisition of an illegal property benefit to itself or another is prescribed as a subjective feature of a criminal offence. Furthermore, it is also proposed to supplement the criminal offence of counterfeiting the document of art. 278. KZ to the general clause or otherwise, and a qualified form of starting with other non-cash payment instruments. It is also proposed to supplement the criminal offence of computer fraud from art. 271. KZ and prescribing a new criminal offence in Art. 331 C.E. This applies to the production, purchase, possession, sale or use of funds for the illegal acquisition of cash-to-delivery payment instruments. This proposal also included a revision of the compliance of the KZ with EU Directive 2018/1673, i.e. as a result of the analysis, an analysis showed that compliance with the requirements of the Directive was the result of which no amendments should be made in this part. Furthermore, the harmonisation of the crime of war crimes of art. 91. KZ with amendments and amendments to Art. 8. The Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. What is also significant, i.e. to better criminal protection, is to supplement the meaning of the term of a close person from an article. No. 87th century. 9th century. KZ's current or ex-partner in an intimate relationship which will result in stronger criminal protection against these categories of persons in the form of criminal prosecution of the perpetrators under official duty and the higher prescribed prison sentence when it comes to... parts of the current or former partner in an intimate relationship. As I was saying in the introduction, it's a redefined article. The 156th century 3 which will result in the act of sexual harassment being prosecuted by official duty for all categories of victims. It is also prescribed as a new criminal offence, an act of abuse of footage of sexually explicit content in art. 144.a... of this criminal offence will be achieved by one who abuses the relationship of trust and without the consent of the filmed person makes available to the third person a recording of the sexual explicit content recorded with the consent of that person for personal use and thus harms her privacy, which is already widely used as a vengeful pornography. This criminal act in Article 2 is also incriminating those who, by using the computer system or by other means, create a new or modifying existing video of sexual explicit content and use the video as a right and thereby harm the privacy of the person in that video. For these forms of crime, it is proposed to punish the prison for up to 1 year, while its qualified form, when it was committed through a computer system or a network or otherwise, which has made the video available to a larger number of persons, suggests punishing the perpetrators with a sentence of up to 3 years. Criminal protection has also been extended to guarantee children through art. 173 Penal Code. It refers to non-implementation of a decision to protect the welfare of the child and other categories of vulnerable persons, which are persons who are vulnerable either because of their age or because of severe physical, mental or pregnancy disorders, and with more precise incrimination of the inaction as a way of committing this crime. This would result in a timely failure to comply with a legal obligation or an obvious failure to comply with the rules of the child protection profession and other vulnerable persons due to their profits, severe physical or mental impairment or pregnancy by the official or responsible person. Security measures shall also be audited in such a way as to propose mandatory disclosure of the security measure of mandatory psychosocial treatment and the security measure of distance from the common household, while retaining the conditions of danger on the part of the perpetrator at the time of the verdict, subject to the determination of the risk of relapse, i.e. the risk of abuse of duty or activity of the perpetrator to re-increasing the offences of the catalogue. The 71st century 3. Security measures referred to in Article 1 76. A criminal law relating to protection and supervision after full enforcement, which has so far been applied to ex-legis, is proposed to be prescribed in such a way as to refer the court to a verdict, which in the event of its violation will lead to the taking of a new criminal offence of the non-execution of the judgment referred to in Article. 311. Penalty law. Also, the extension of the catalogue of criminal offences for prosecution does not become obsolete in art. 81st century 2 of the Penal Code, the severe criminal act of sexual abuse, the exploitation of a child from art. The 166th century 2 of the Penal Code, resulting in the narrowing of the catalogue of criminal offences of art. The 82nd century 3. The criminal law and not by obsolescence of the execution of the sentence in relation to the serious criminal offence of sexual abuse and exploitation of the child from art. 166th century 2 of the Penal Code. I would point out here that all these changes and additions continue to go to the best possible and the stronger criminal protection, before, from committing crimes against children and underage persons and above all, protection against victims of sexual harassment and abuse. If we remember, we have already gone to stronger criminal protection of children and minors, especially from the crimes of sexual abuse, in a way that, that we have strengthened the penalties, that we have increased in fact, the penalties, so that, in this sense, we believe that the protection of children and former groups is particularly important, and in this sense, in these amendments and additions it is still upgraded. The HDZ Club will support this amendment and supplementation of the Penal Code because we consider it complete and good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54605	Thank you, too. Now in front of the SDP's Club of Representatives, Vice-President of the Parliament, Sabina the Voice will take the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54606	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the HS, the respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. The SDP advocates' club will support everything proposed in this Amendment and Supplements to the Penal Code. It will support the fact that the applicant has respected what the Ombudsman and associations have been warning about for years, especially in the area of women's protection and prevention and the fight against violence. It will support the fact that this Law revises the security measures of mandatory psychosocial treatment and the security measure of remoteness from the common household and prohibits the exercise of certain duties and activities and protective supervision after the full execution of the prison sentence. It's something that the D.A. has been warning for years, and associations have been warning for years, why the victim is the one who has to be away from his home, why not be the one who does the act of violence. Likewise, we are pleased to hear from the Ombudsman in this Law both in terms of sexual harassment or non-treatment of sexual harassment as something that has to be reported on the basis of the application, and not prosecuted by official duty when that period of 3 months has elapsed since the commencement of or the suffering of violence, which has been an obstacle to many, failed, so to speak, sanctions against the perpetrators, and the re-witting in some way and the humiliation of the victims. We will support the fact that we have also listened to the association and the Ombudsman that finally, when we talk about gender-related violence, the term extends, meaning, as far as gender-related violence is concerned, it does not only retain on persons, family members, ex-marriage partners, life partners, informal life partners, or persons with whom the person has a child or lives in the same household. For years, it has been warned that violence is indeed happening between, or over, one of the current or former intimate partners, and that is what this Law provides. What is also a good step further, and this is the introduction of a new crime, including the abuse of video of sexually explicit content, in order to sanction those acts that connect to so-called. Vengeance porn, but not just that. When a person distributes the recordings that have been made with the consent of another person for private purposes, they are given an insight by one person without the consent of a partner to an insight into a third person, but also when we talk about manipulations of explicit content in such a way as to replace the image or digitally in the video or create new manipulative content through modern technology with the aim of violating someone's privacy. Likewise, it is good that the catalogue of criminal acts for which criminal persecution does not become obsolete extends to a serious crime of sexual abuse and exploitation of a child. It's all good moves, it's all good steps, but in order for everything to not be so idyllic, I need to warn you of a few things. The first thing, which saddens me a little, when you see your argument, i.e. the assessment of the situation and the fundamental issues that need to be regulated by law and the consequences that will arise, the Proposer stresses that these are the 6th amendments to the Penal Code, that is, the last ones were, we remember, in 2019, right after, shortly after the adoption of so-called. or ratifications of the so-called The Istanbul Conventions and we have set out for these 6 amendments, however, as the Proposer says, this bill proposes the 6th amendment of the Penal Code, and the main reason for this is the harmonisation of national criminal law with the acquis of the EU. So the women are actually here and the protection of women, the victims are actually kind of along the way, that's what you wrote here, I'm not happy about it. But that explains why, when we are, when the opposition is 12 months old. propose a proposal of the Penal Code to ensure that any woman who suffers sexual harassment at the university or at her workplace by a superior never encounters a closed door as happened by several women in a national roof institution who reported to them by a superior to sexually harassing them for a long time, the DORH did not even enter into whether they were harassed or not at work but rejected the application. Why? Because they're too late. After that, we write an intervention law supported by most of the opposition and say, people, this isn't about having time. Three months is short. They're women who can lose their jobs, they're women who can lose their existence, they're women who may, because of revenge, never be able to finish college, if they're commanded by the one who's harassing them, and they're not enough for 3 months to be forced to take such a step because first, terrified, secondly humiliated, thirdly destroyed their dignity and fourth, they only have 3 months to decide on that step, and they probably don't even know what they're called for or why what happened to them and you, we don't put that law, put it on the agenda, but you don't want to discuss it here. We meet the day of our wife, when business assumptions have taken place, we put this law here to debate the signatures on the agenda and you turn your back on those women. And you say wait a minute. Ma'am. The Jelkovac on behalf of the club says here, says this wait justifies the quality of the law. No, ma'am. Jelkovac, every woman from the 12th month. To this day which is due to report sexual harassment, it goes to your soul because you closed the door for her. If you had passed this law in December or when we put it here for a vote when you turned your back on the victims in March, they would have had some chance that the one who did it would have been punished, but no, you punished them. So here it's extremely important, you can't here the quality of the law that is, there is, I said, justify waiting because what you've done, it's incompetence,.../incomprehensible/... lost in politics where some women are victims, and that's not the point of politics, that's the bottom of politics, and that's not how it should be done. If the proposal is good, if the proposal makes sense, then we support it, as we today supported everything you wrote in this Law because it's good, but I have to tell you that you're late and you've punished some women for politics and that's a fact. I'm sorry it's like that, but that's how it is. What I must also say is that even when we adopt this Law, probably by consensus, it will not guarantee better criminal protection for women who are sexually harassed or these other categories to which the law applies. Why? In 2019, we quite, after the adoption, or ratification of the Istanbul Convention, have also served the penalties for domestic violence, we have defined a slightly different concept of rape, however, it continues to occur that the judicial authorities, or judges, are reluctant to impose the most severe penalties, for example, for domestic violence, and very often those minimum sentences and, according to the lawyer's report, for example, less than 10% are imposed on unconditional prison sentences. They're either paroled or monetary, and even when we talk about the Penal Code, when we talk about domestic violence, they're actually minimal. So I need a lot of work to do with the adoption of this legislative framework on education not only for people who work in the system, first of all, I think, so I'm good at this idea of going to specialised systems, but also for thinking about raising children from small feet through special educational programs that violence does not occur at all and that it is actually perfecting or learning, teaching and raising some new society that will cultivate a culture of miles, not violence, conversations, and not solving the problem of hand-to-hands and undoing other persons, i.e. harassment, abuse or worst forms of violence. Also, when we talk about the legislative framework, we must remember the case of Mr Alojz Tomasevic, who received six months probation. So it took longer than he got the punishment. We must remember, too, the multiple rape of a girl, a minor girl in Zadar where the perpetrators were actually allowed to defend themselves from freedom. In the Daruvarac case where the Supreme Court annuls the sentence, we must do everything in this legal framework to ensure that the law is applied in a way that sends a very clear message that we are a society of zero tolerance to violence and zero tolerance to sexual harassment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54607	Thank you. You can leave because the Rules of Procedure's injuries are up. Are you sure? We're adults, you're inoculated. Mrs. Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54608	Thank you very much, Vice President. A esteemed colleague injures Article 238. The Rules of Procedure offending me as an advocate and accusing certain victims of going to my soul. What are you since 2011. And by 2015 when were you in power respected for the protection of victims and for the change of the KZ? You haven't ratified the Istanbul Convention, and today with this kind of politics you're dealing with demagogy, not us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54609	Thank you very much. Please! Thank you very much. Mrs. Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54610	In a similar way, I believe that Article 238 has been injured. And that a colleague insults, first of all, all of us sitting here on this side, spreading demagogy. I will remind you of the period from 2011 to 2015 and everything that has not been done. I remind you that during your term of office of your government, you had a minister whose work is in the middle of a system of social care and protection of women and children from domestic violence and from sexual abuse. I'm asking you, what did you do?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54611	Thank you, Mrs. Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54612	.../Intruder Bedekovic: And besides, you have your Alojz Tomasevic, and you hide him like a snake's foot./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54613	Mrs. Bedekovic, don't! Surely you are referring to that part of Article 238 where it says that you may be demeaning and insulting the chairman. All right, let's let the president or the other MPs go now. I think it was a heated debate and that you guys actually had replicas, so I have to give you some warning. I didn't write that Rules of Procedure, but I have to apply it. But you know that well, don't you? And saying that something goes to someone's soul isn't an insult, maybe it's not true, but this Rules of Procedure doesn't deal with the truth. Let's move on. It's hard for me to do that, but we're moving on. Mrs. Ermina Lekaj Arlaskaj in front of the Club of HNS Representatives and Independent Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54614	Honorable chairman, respected assistant ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. Today we have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Penal Code with a final draft of the law, and a proposal for a law supplementing the Law on protection against domestic violence with a final draft of the law. With this debate, I would particularly like to address the issue of amending the Law on protection against domestic violence and thus give support to every form of fight against violence against the weak and the powerless, especially in their families. Because as I have already told this speaker several times, it is an obligation for all of us to actively engage in the fight against every form of violence, not declaratively and, if necessary, systematically and responsibly. We need to look for solutions and ways to combat violent forms of behavior, because as long as one individual experiences the consequences of violence daily, we have not solved this burning problem. Domestic violence is particularly a major problem, as not only are victims often the most vulnerable groups of society but it is also often hidden inside four walls of home that should be the safest place for each individual. Family as one of the greatest social values, a community by which love, harmony, and understanding should be dominated by universally accepted logic is incompatible with the concept of violence. Unfortunately, however, the family environment is the most common site of the most brutal forms of violent behavior, and increasingly the most fatal ones. The abuser of the victim has complete control, and the victim, for fear, shame, unfulfilled social expectations, is silent and suffering. And despite good legal solutions and quality international and domestic legal instruments, violence is becoming an ever-increasing general social problem that we are increasingly struggling to deal with. This bill proposes the addition of the Law on Protection against Family Violence as a result of its need for compliance with the proposed amendments and additions to the Penal Code. The wording of a close person referred to in Article 87(9) shall be complemented. Criminal law to present or ex-partners in an intimate relationship. This addition of the circle of persons to whom the law will apply will be the same as the addition of a circle of close persons to present or former partners in an intimate relationship proposed by the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code. The proposed addition of the article will provide criminal and legal protection to current or former partners in an intimate relationship which, within the meaning of this law, did not exist until today, since they were not covered by a circle of persons subject to the law. The proposed law amending and supplementing the Penal Code will provide additional protection in the event of offences related to domestic violence, as it will be covered by the updated definition of a close person referred to in Article 87(9). For this reason, we welcome these amendments to both laws, as it is precisely a clear detection of the problem and a clear definition of legislative solutions and their effective implementation in practice can help identify the problem of domestic violence and its effective resolution. In doing so, the adoption of clear criteria that distinguish people from criminal acts is particularly important because it is only possible to achieve full legal certainty and the protection of victims, and to expect an adequate response from society to violence as an unacceptable form of behaviour. Following all the above mentioned club of HNS and independent representatives, the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code and the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Protection against Family Violence will be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54615	Thank you, too. Mrs. Katarina Peovic in front of the HSS and Workers' Front Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54616	So it's about the Penal Code that lawyers say is organic law and that it shouldn't be changed so often. These are the sixth amendments, but I must first of all stress that I consider it a bad practice that the legislative proposals that come from the opposition are generally rejected regardless of the fact that an identical legislative proposal or part of the legislative proposal appears only a few months later and then means most of this vote. This is certainly about harmonising national criminal legislation with the EU acquis in a good part of the articles. Here, the motioner proposes these amendments and additions to supplement the war penalty, means the first counterfeiting in relation to the cash-free funds. So it's about a fight we certainly welcome against these types of fraud. The applicant shall then, in addition to the criminal part of the war crime referred to in Article 91. Article 2 Penal Code in accordance with the amendments and amendments to Article 8. The Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court in relation to weapons used by microbiological agents or poisons in relation to weapons which are the primary effect of wounding fragments which cannot be detected in the human body by X-rays and laser weapons which blinden. So that's what the war crimes part is about. I don't think it's been explained by now what it's really about. Furthermore, the procedural assumption of persecution for the act of sexual harassment will be redefined, which many have welcomed. The security measures for the prohibition of the performance of a specific duty will also be revised. We certainly welcome the proposal for a new incrimination of the abuse of sexually explicit content. So that's this article 144a. The penal code and the latter are also being warned by women's associations. You all probably got a petition from BaBa signed by a lot of women, so you could see that very female associations and greetings. So BaBe sent us a memo, so these amendments and additions to the Penal Code introduce this new crime of abuse of sexually explicit content, which should be used as a description of what is happening here and if, without the consent of the recorded person, a third person is made available to the video of the sexual explicit content recorded with the consent of that person for personal use and if, in this way, harming its privacy. So situations that we've seen a lot in the media and have to be sanctioned. It also regulates the review of the criminal offence of not implementing a decision to protect the child's well-being. So Article 173. The penal code, and the expansion of the meaning of the close person we welcome, means that it will include the current or former partner in an intimate relationship. It is particularly important that the Penal Code recognises, means current and former partners because we know that they have not been recognized in the law, and that such offences and crimes are common, means both present and former partners. The non-depreciation of serious acts of sexual abuse and exploitation of the child will then be introduced, as has already been said. In the act of sexual harassment, he will be prosecuted on official duty for all categories of victims and no more obsolescence for up to three months. That's the proposal sent to the parliamentary procedure by the opposition, but it didn't pass. Now the proposal will probably pass. Such things, unfortunately, are expected to be with many other laws. There's the Workers' Front. It's the Digital Giants Act, the Digital Service Tax. I expect that in a matter of two months, by ruling an identical law will be introduced into the procedure and that the law will pass. These are examples that seem to me that we should condemn and that, in fact, opposition when it makes proposals that the rulings agree with by ruling these proposals must support. I really don't understand why such a practice is tolerated and it's silently no one is questioning it anymore, nor is it even out of opposition being a really bad practice that the public should condemn especially when we have recorded cases in which parts of the proposal or the entire proposals are copied and then voted. I mean, it's not some democratic practice, and it shows that it's not at all what's being said, but who's saying what shouldn't be politics and that kind of policy should be condemned. Of course the laws are also one and the implementation of the other. The implementation of the Istanbul Convention has already not been brought to life in particular as regards domestic violence in this segment of a violation where abusers and victims are equalised. That is why we believe that a criminal offence should be stressed, not a violation, which was also the purpose of the Istanbul Convention for whose implementation it seems that we will wait a few more decades, so we are also pushing for a criminal-legal mechanism not infringing. We also welcome that there will soon be announced amendments to the Penal Code in that segment in which it has not been proposed, which is that for the ban "For Home Ready". I declare that the draft text in the Penal Code is complete, so the article on banning the public use of the Ustasha greeting "For Home Ready". It is an initiative launched in the Jewish municipality in Zagreb this year, and it is an organised meeting attended by representatives of most parliamentary parties and minority representatives, all to sanction any use of Ustasha, Chetnik and Fascist symbols. In doing so, I hope that the amendment to the Penal Code will be agreed by the majority. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54617	Thank you, too. Ms. Marija Selak Rasudiæ will speak, we will move to individual debates, she will speak for herself. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54618	In the debate on behalf of the club, I pointed out some things that I consider important for better inter-resorial cooperation that would enable us as parliamentary representatives to deal more actively with all cases of domestic violence, violence against women and sexual harassment as well as violence against children. The topics proposed by these legal changes. First of all, it would be best to do so through the fact that statistics that point to certain social trends and problems are made available to us, so that in time, we can warn the institutions and raise our awareness of the burning problems that concern these topics, and certainly from this pay phone we can certainly do so if we are given the minimum of this tool that we need to do so. What I'm going to look at in this individual debate, which I haven't talked about in the debate on behalf of the club is a problem of sexual harassment that has been a big deal lately, and unfortunately the media presence of the problem has not resulted in the same specific epilogue for the victims. So what we could find out by investigating the consequences of all that we've talked about is that a very small number of concrete applications have been filed at all, and the question of whether I'm going to have to say literally go to one of them and end up with a court epilogue, and more and punishment for the perpetrator. What I want to warn you here is that when we talk about sexual harassment that for most of those actors who were shown during the media campaign, and I fought for it because we can't get to the point where we're going to do this to any person, it's that for most of them you said that it was known or that it was expected of him and that none of those names within those institutions were surprised, and often even wider. This points to a serious social problem that speaks of statistics that we possess and which is official is not enough and does not really reflect the state of things. So a lot of women are exposed to sexual harassment. It's a lot of men. Let's say the statistics for 2019 if you're looking at it, you've had if I'm not wrong about six men and eight women. They're the ones who managed to get through this case to the end. There were no men in 2020. So even the problem itself doesn't necessarily have to be sexually conditional. So the problem that exists in society very rarely rises to a higher level. It means that he is quietly tolerated as part of some promise, as part of something where he has to squeeze his teeth and move on, not to wave, not to stop studying, not to lose the place where he works, etc. And probably because of a huge mistrust in a concrete institutional reaction. That's why I think this problem is worth talking about, because the figures we should expect, which we can expect if we perform sufficiently sensitively in public, are certainly much bigger than the ones we are currently witnessing. In order for this to happen, we must not allow the media who played a positive role in raising awareness of the problem to be the ultimate executioners of criminals. Therefore, we must not allow the process of institutionalising the media, that the media take over the role of institutions and that they eventually show and process and even in this symbolic sense bury criminals. So that's what institutions should do. I am happy that we have succeeded through the work of the three parliamentary committees – the Committee on Gender Equality, the Committee on Education and the Committee on Media together to discuss this problem and give four concrete recommendations to the institutions in order to stop this problem from happening in the future. I hope that these recommendations will be implemented and implemented in action, because we are first invited here to find other social tools to prevent sexual harassment in the future with the legal framework that we are going to support here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54619	Thank you very much. Mr. Ante Kujundzic's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54620	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, respected colleagues, Rasudić Selak, since the number of silent internet applications increased by about 458% in the last year in terms of the report of violence in the family of a particular country have somehow found one form of innovative solutions based on which victims themselves can report violence, so that in Italy it is enough to call the police and actually order one pizza Margarita, and in themselves it indicates that it is domestic violence after which the police go out on the ground. Spain and France have in their system of innovation, so the pharmacies themselves and masks 19, more specifically purple masks, which when the victim orders actually indicate the application of a family violence. Do you think Croatia should introduce such an innovative form of SOS sentence. Here I propose a sentence I want to be mayor as a sentence to report violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54621	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54622	I also understood your cynical comment and to whom he was directed. And unfortunately, the serious problem is that we also had bullies in the ranks of those who act as the country's most important political functions, and they were neither timelyally sanctioned nor disowned by the party who put them in that place. So, as far as this is concerned, we have proposed it through the board specifically. So we've been looking for innovative solutions to make it easier to report violence at the time of the corona crisis and later on. However, despite our concrete proposals and the appeal we have made, there is nothing in this sense, an active sense that would most help victims move in our institutions. And I can only express regret about it and repeat that same appeal, because it's never too late for legal changes, and for this.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54623	Thank you very much. Mrs. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54624	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues, Selak Rasudiæ, so the laws are written on paper, the laws have to fit, as much as they can fit reality and then we get real situations. This corona is certainly an abnormal condition and can't be any new normal. It's an absolutely abnormal condition, and which will be the consequence of all of this I'm not going to talk about kids, that's what we had the chance to talk about yesterday. But in those relationships, we'll actually see. So what must be the result of both us and the committees and all together, that after we have certain legal solutions and we can all agree that these legal solutions are incomparably better than what we have, that in real life this really works, that in real life these legal solutions are applicable and that we see some small shifts. No one's got a magic wand and we're not gonna have any drastics, but a slight shift is already a shift. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54625	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54626	I agree. In terms of facing this difficult problem, that is, social anomaly, everything is a shift for the better, every saved victim. But in order for that shift to really happen, for people to think that we're doing some work here, that the laws as such make sense we need to hear the key message, and that was the question I asked. What happens to those who don't enforce the law? If we at the time of the crown have over 80% increase in non-compliance with Article 173. A penal law that applies to the rights of a child why we can't hear who's guilty and who's going to answer. People want to hear that laws exist in practice, that they are applied and that there is a punishment for its non-application. Otherwise, if we don't send it as a message, we don't give clear answers who cares what we're talking about here. We can make up another 300 super laws. Give us those answers and bring people back to the faith of the institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54627	Thank you. And finally Mrs. Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54628	Here's an esteemed colleague, just one thing she wanted to point out to us in this replica, and that's this proposal for non-depreciation of crimes related to sexual abuse of children who, at one time, the problem, I think is certainly welcome. But what a problem sometimes arises when this unagesome is introduced. So the people who participate in the system, who work for discovery, are somehow under the impression that they have time. So, there won't be any problem in case this case isn't processed as soon as possible, so they're giving themselves time to sort of delay it all, so what's good on one side has somehow their dark side, so there's no pressure on the time frame in which things have to end. Here's what you think of it?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54629	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54630	I understand what you're saying. So there is a problem that someone will think that they have all the time in the world because they can always process that crime. However, the victim does not have all the time in the world and its time is running, and trauma is potentiated unless the solution is immediately approached. This may be the case for such legislative changes, but it should be addressed through some other regulations and concrete measures that will go towards an effective judiciary. So first we have to have enough, here we're talking about transferring to a family court, enough numbers and judges and some percentage of cases that they can take and the measures of whether they did their job as it belongs to us to force each other because it's not just a problem for them to do things on time. If you get a penalization because you got this item in 2021 and it's not solved until 2022, it'll be resolved in time and there's a solution to be sought.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54631	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mrs. Anka's turn, Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54632	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. So in the debate, we have amendments to two laws amending and supplementing the Penal Code and amending and supplementing the Law on protection against domestic violence. I'm going to talk a little bit in this individual debate about the fact that it's extremely important that we make changes and supplement laws that harmonize with real life and different types of relationships in which people are daily. This corona, as I've already said, is one abnormal condition, one abnormal condition. What will be the consequence of children, which will be the consequences of mutual relations, and what will be the consequence of family violence and family violence, I am just as sure that we will see. And I'm equally sure we'll just see. Current or former partners in intimate relationships are certainly a category of relationships to which these two amendments to the law should apply. People are relatively often involved in intimate relationships, and in them or after them there are often situations that are consistent with domestic violence, and laws have not recognized them so far. The whole idea is that, especially in one place and visiblely, rights of victims of domestic violence are prescribed, that at all, the types of violence fall within that category, and that victims are given special protection to criminal and criminal law. In that sense, the inclusion of partners in an intimate or former intimate relationship is a very logical step, or should I say a step that we support. Intimacies are by their nature in many ways similar to the family relationship between two people and can be, and often they are, a source of violence. We're aware of that, we don't need to have some strong indicators, we're only aware of it based on common sense, but the indicators are also media reports, an analysis of the experts who confirm it. And in the blackest statistics, the one in women's murders is unfortunately the full justification of this supplement. In the 2020 report, which has not yet been discussed by the Ombudsman for gender equality, we are warned that the number of women killed in Croatia is on the rise again. So for over 50% of women killed for the fifth year, the hand of a man with whom they were in some form of intimate relationship. In addition to marriages and extramarital communities, there are also partnerships in the intimate relationships that are now being introduced into the law. Remember, all together we can remember how many times we almost daily this happens through the media were informed of various examples of violence during or after breaking up an intimate relationship. From physical or sexual violence and abuse, monitoring and harassing of different species, attacks on friends, relatives or new partners, destruction of property etc. These are all situations that occur in intimate relationships, not just in marriages and extramarital communities. Therefore, we absolutely appreciate that the inclusion of intimate and former intimate partners in this law is important because it gives victims some of the fundamental rights that come from it. Therefore, it is important that through this law it is defined, but what is extremely important about what we must take care of is prevention. Prevention of domestic violence and awareness of possible perpetrators will be carried out quickly and efficiently in the event of reporting. We are a small country, a country where the census will likely show that we are well below 4 million. When it starts to spend fast and efficiently in reality certain things, then it's a story that when it happens regardless of the area, any area of the Republic of Croatia it's known everywhere. And it's also the same for those thugs who are aware they'll be sanctioned quickly. That's what's important. Look at all these events that we have, the light stage goes out, and behind these procedures takes a long time. And that's why we need to make sure not only that we have laws that define it, that will make things easier, but that in reality we really do it because domestic violence is both physical and psychological. and sexual and economic and neglect and all these are the worst possible situations. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54633	We have one replica from Mr. Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54634	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mrak Taritash, if we look at statistics alone, we will come to the realization that the number of reports of violence is actually in one drastic decline. But is it in reality that if we take it coming, we actually have one form of ratio 1:10 in terms of reporting a case of domestic violence or on the other hand that we have reported one rape compared to, from 15 to 20 cases that have not been reported. In fact, what does one such ratio tell us, and where are we, in the end, as a society, and with each other and as a state?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54635	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54636	Thank you very much for your question because that question is actually a question that always gives a theme. We can pass laws, laws can be the most perfect, they can be best written, but then we come to reality. These are laws that must apply and be quick. One reason why people, or those who have been abused in the family or in any way, are not reported in a particular situation. They don't report it straight-handed and says when it comes to order I'll already live another life, I'll go away for the simple reason that the judiciary is slow, which we don't have a problem with having someone who's obviously proven to be an abuser going into obsolescence. These laws have made a significant shift, but we must make a significant shift in our heads and a significant shift in reality. It's the only way to reduce that number to be reasonable. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54637	No more replicas, thank you very much. Now it's Mrs. Rada Boric's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54638	... My colleagues and colleagues, before I say anything about the need for better, I would say synergy work between those institutions that should advocate that violence against both women and children is less, I would say something because I asked a question I didn't have time for, and two colleagues in their debate today were using the term of revenge pornography to impose sanctions on explicit sexual content. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] I would like to say that I myself feel co-responsible for many of the terms that have been introduced into ours, in ours and in the official language and in the judiciary all the more and more that is related to gender-related violence and often we have been arguing for a long time how to name something when it is very often translated from English. Why is it so controversial and I pray that when it's explained that it's really okay to use images of explicit sexual content rather than vengeful pornography because it predominates that if we use that syntagm it means that something which is a sexual act between two partners that the moment he enters the public, when abuse, abuses, then that if we call it vengeful pornography, it means that even being an intimate act was pornography. So we have to be very careful what we use because what was at home, in what is called whether the 4 walls then can't at the moment when someone abuses, can't be called pornography. So the second thing is if we know whether or not we're going to call pornography a movie genre and we know that pornography is both activity or not to say business. So, I pray as carefully as a feminist linguist is to watch out for ourselves when we use some terms, and we know for ourselves that the gender story itself has caused recommendations and unnecessary recommendations. But I would say something about it because yesterday we had a lawyer, and sometimes it seems to me that there is too little synergy, although I know that institutions are cooperating, so what I think is important here, and we all said what good laws mean, if only the letter remains on paper, and especially here, unlike women, we'd argue, even though we could extend it to women what is happening, and the attorney is constantly asking to prevent the convicted perpetrators from therefore delinquents against children from coming into contact with children. We could set up the same thing as it seems that the rightful perpetrators don't come in contact with women either. We know very well how the bans of access work until there are indeed femicides. What is very important is that the Penal Code should be amended in order to prevent judicial practice, I have spoken of this already today, mild convictions and to prohibit the pronunciation of work for the common good. It is absolutely inappropriate that sexual predators and those who work against children work for the common good, and most importantly that we should and should ensure the automatic prohibitation of child labour bans for those who have such a judicial verdict for sexual abuse of children. And not only in the education system, but yesterday I said something about it, so what we call extracurricular activities is whether it's children's camps, sports associations, I think it's inadmissible that no one is so concerned that those who were truly convicted of sexual abuse and those most vulnerable who themselves will not often recognize because the people who are with them are persons of trust, persons of authority, etc. We need to know that if we're going to continue to give mild penalties they have besides that, and these fines have short data storage, rehabilitation occurs, it's no longer possible to check someone's criminal past, etc., so it really opens up the possibility that the perpetrators of sexual delicacies at the expense of the child then to their home, here I think, yeah, I'm running out of minutes, so I can keep doing whatever they were sexual predators.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54639	Thank you. You have replicas, Mrs. Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54640	Dear colleague Boric, you have raised an interesting question of terminology when we talk about sensitive topics. Now I'm going to say why I think this term of vengeful pornography is completely missed and why we should be very careful. So we here focus on only one type of motive, revenge. You can break the connection with someone in which you recorded a type of content, and that someone after he left you and has the best intentions for you in the future is to assess that they can make a good business out of it. There's no revenge, but it's useful material he can earn. And now his pornography isn't vengeful, so he's not guilty, he shouldn't be punished. That's why I also think it's important what terms we use. And she would ask you to answer me as someone who has long participated in feminist debates, and the Croatian public is not so familiar with them, you say something about the fact that there are different attitudes towards pornography and recommendations on how to access within and themselves feminist movements.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54641	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54642	Thank you very much. I think it might take us a while. There are also resistances to feministism, on the feminist stage about a few topics, so one of them is also related to pornography, the other is of course bound to prostitution, so it's either about women in prostitution or sex workers. So, these disputes have several but these are two key, if we also consider pornography violence against women, if we consider prostitution violence against women, we really talk about women in prostitution. So pornography is also an extremely important business, and you need to see if and how much, when and by free will someone is involved in filming pornography, what we call pornography. Here more concerns about the term that something that was our contractual act, that after some time if someone abuses it then that act of ours suddenly becomes pornographic. It's the use of footage for pornography or for porn. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54643	Thank you very much. Mrs. Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54644	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues will refer briefly to the part of your presentation in which you spoke about the perpetrators of sexual delicacies to the harm of the child and sexual predators, and I absolutely agree with you, and I find it a difficult crime and such persons not only cannot work in the system of education and education, especially as you said in that part of the system when it comes to extracurricular and extracurricular activities in practice, unfortunately, we still often have such cases because most often such cases when they are engaged are not checked in advance, and then, unfortunately, in practice, difficult, difficult acts happen to us. And when I say that not only can these people work in a system of education and education, then I think that it should be extended to a health care system, especially a social care system that has many institutions in its work, where it is located and is done with children with different difficulties. And not just to children, but to young people. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54645	So, thank you just for thinking about it...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54646	Mrs. Boric, you can answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54647	Sorry, sorry, that's exactly what I was thinking. You know very well, we know that children are a vulnerable group and how many adults and authorities and people of trust and especially more subgroups of children, say I just don't know children in homes, children in carefree children's homes. So we know about cases where there was really violence. First, we need to know that children in advance especially who knows something about sexual violence against children know that children believe and we know very well that violence often does not happen from strangers. These are always almost except for the closest members of the family, but also uncles and aunts with whom these children come into contact and they do not know the limits and they do not know what is allowed. And responsibility lies with us. to those who do evil, but surely on the system. And the system doesn't know what he's done here, so I'd like to get some more answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54648	Mrs. Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54649	Dear colleagues, here's how you comment on cases where here's the victim and dares to report sexual harassment especially at work, in their environment, then there are cases that as happened on HRT that when you go to process such a single case then the victims face the perpetrators. So it took time, months for the victim to even dare report such a thing, and then so traumatized, additional trauma to face them and bring them to a meeting in the same room with his perpetrators. So here's something we asked the director of HRT at that session, the thematic session of the 3 Joint Committee, he didn't dare answer. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54650	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54651	Thank you, colleagues, for asking. And here today, a colleague of the Voice spoke, and we all talked about what we missed. And of course we know the cases, it's not here if it's about the HUP, whether it's about the Auto Motor Club Siget, we saw what it means when women don't dare apply and I said that sometimes even for these cases of applying to the university, that we all still like to minimize a little bit. At first it was sexual abuse, sexual violence to minimise sexual harassment as if it were a minor qualification and then, of course, it was a different relationship to the violence that took place. It's extremely important here that what we agreed that such violence should not go out of date, and especially that the people who are in this system, look, some of them got big severances, they moved away, we don't know where they're going to end up. and what kind of violence they will continue to carry out. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54652	Thank you very much, Mrs. Boric, you have no more replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54653	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54654	Thank you. Mrs. Andreja Maric is on her way now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54655	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear ministers, state secretary, respected colleagues and colleagues, this debate would refer to the psychosocial treatment of the perpetrator of domestic violence, which is very important because it makes it easier for victims, as well as for the socialist. Of course, we have to do everything to do to provide the necessary protection to victims of violence, but it is important to ensure and treat the perpetrators of violence. The purpose of this treatment is to prevent and stop repeated domestic violence by affecting the behavior of the perpetrator. The treatment involves the member of the family who committed violence and aims to achieve positive changes in the behaviour of the perpetrators. So he needs to work to accept responsibility for violent behavior and to accept new choices and new patterns of conduct. What, though, concerns? On the one hand, you must have enough licensed and educated experts, and you must also have provided sufficient resources for psychosocial treatment programmes to be implemented. On the one hand, units of local self-government were involved, and for this development of these programmes, education of psychosocial treatments, round tables, financing of homes for victims of domestic violence also rely on donations. And my question is, and I hope that the minister will also look back on how much involvement and assistance the state is because states and resolution ministries really should be involved in this issue and psychosocial treatment and safe houses. The environment in which psychosocial treatment is conducted and which guidelines should be targeted are health systems, social care systems, prison and probation systems. There is definitely a greater need for experts to conduct psychosocial treatment. There is a need to organise as many round tables as possible to connect experts from different fields and exchange experiences. Staff education is needed, evaluation and supervision of the treatment as a quality criterion is required. A quality physical environment is needed where you will conduct psychosocial treatment especially for minors and adults who consume drugs. They should indeed have a physically separate space for providing psychosocial treatment services and certainly a multidisciplinary approach and interdisciplinary cooperation. I was already saying something in the replica that the conduct, conducted domestic violence studies by psychiatric patients, and according to some studies that were done on a group of patients who specializeed in Vrapce Hospital, even about 13% were perpetrators of domestic violence, primarily patients with schizophrenia, then addictions primarily alcohol and other disorders. Unfortunately, the treatment of addiction in many is, in fact, a long - term process for some patients and lifespan. What kind of abuse does it seem? First of all, physically, mentally, and then sexually, and most often the victim was a spouse. It is a big problem that such forms of violence by psychiatric patients are reported in a small number, so that it is definitely necessary to work on the fact that such misdemeanors are reported by official duty especially when there is contact with, say, doctors in the medical system. People with severe mental illness are not suitable for psychosocial treatment as often or alcohol - dependent people. The problem is that one part, as I have stated almost 30% does not even appear to be treated, is therefore the importance of the combination of tools listed in these amendments to the Penal Code. Therefore, the security measures of mandatory psychosocial treatment, the security measures of detachment from the common household and the safeguard measure, and I hope, in practice, that a good assessment will seem to be carried out to protect anyone who does not, since the law states in Article 76 that the court may determine that safeguards are not carried out if there is reason to believe that a person will not commit a criminal offence again. So I hope there aren't any mistakes in the assessment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54656	Thank you. Mrs. Selak Rasudiæ, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54657	Dear colleague Maric, thank you for opening this important topic. This is particularly important, perhaps, the most important topic we haven't talked about at all, and it is about whether we can rehabilitate people who were violent back into society, which should be our goal because the ultimate goal is to punish rehabilitation, and on the other hand, and what society gives them, and the number of relapsers we have when we talk about domestic violence, and that number is really big. Well, you as well as a medical expert, even though not in this area, do you think it seems enough on that trail and whether it's even possible to achieve something that's in some way social utopia, which is that people who once were violent stop being in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54658	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54659	Thank you very much, so here's why I came forward for an individual debate because I think the problem with these topics that we're talking about is not really publicized, and we're not really aware of what the problems behind it are. On the one hand, you have legal provisions and everything is beautifully written, and on the other hand, it is a matter of implementation in practice. As I have cited what is definitely a problem is insufficient experts, insufficient financial resources that will actually work on making such perpetrators work as much as possible as you said rehabilitate and that can actually be actively involved in the community, but I say the prerequisite of all of this is as high-quality, as the quality of education of experts who will carry it out and then resulting in what psychosocial treatment of such a criminal is offering precisely so that it could join a quality rehabilitated community.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54660	Mr. Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54661	Thank you very much. Dear MPs through previous discussions and replicas have already heard that mental patients are very often perpetrators of criminal acts and that this is particularly true of domestic violence. One more question is raised, and it's about drug addicts. Drug addicts can also be, and are often perpetrators of crimes including domestic violence, and since you are a doctor, I would ask you for information if you know how drug addicts are treated in the Republic of Croatia, do they go through psychosocial treatments, hospital treatment or ambulatory treatment or to shorten the situation with drug addicts in the health, social and prison system?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54662	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54663	Thank you very much. Yes, you've made a good point and drug addicts can be perpetrators of various crimes including domestic violence. I can't exactly say what percentage of them are committing crimes, including domestic violence. However, what certainly exists in the Republic of Croatia, there are ways to take care of drug addicts. On the one hand, you have a health system, a social care system, or a prison system, and a trial. And there should certainly be said in particular in the prison system, drug addicts on the one hand must undergo treatment including psychosocial treatments because of their own drug addiction and, on the other hand, because of the very act of crime. So anyway, I think there's room for improvement and the state will have to actively involve it all. And the basis of everything, in general, of all of this is prevention. So, prevention programs, and there's again the importance of units local self-government and state. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54664	Thank you very much. And finally Mrs. Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54665	Good afternoon. So I'm curious how you see this, uh, improvement of this psychosocial treatment. We see that the Attorney General's report is also highly instructive in this regard. That there was a huge increase in domestic violence, as much as 28% of 2020 compared to 2019, in the company of 18. and '19. We also have a greater increase in killed women means femicidal, this system of prevention of this gender-based violence doesn't work very well. What I'm interested in, given that you mentioned it, which institutions would focus on improving this and education, and the very application of that rule and this treatment at all, or whether it applies to social care centres, for example, which might be a little bit more likely to work on in that segment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54666	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54667	Yeah. Thank you very much. So, what are the stakeholders that are even important to prevent violence if violence happens for psychosocial treatment. I already said that on the one hand there is a health system, you mentioned a welfare system, so there is also important inclusion of homes for children and centres for social care, homes for adults, treatment communities, associations that provide different forms of assistance, and I said already, and prison system. So prevention is number one to prevent violence from happening at all. In 2020, we know that what she brought us and why, among other things, there was growth and domestic violence. It does not, of course, delight us, we are all appalled by this and it is precisely the problem and inaccessibility and some and preventive programs and in the extreme line and the question of how these psychosocial treatments were conducted during the lockdown period, something that will probably cause us consequences not only in 2020, but also in this and the next years, I am afraid.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54668	Thank you very much, nice weather, thank you. No more replicas, thank you. And now it's Madam. Vice-President Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54669	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This is a law that actually goes one more step further after that law of 2019. when we decided to sharpen the fines and more strongly sanction certain forms of gender-related violence. First of all, we focused there, we saw how severe the penalties for domestic violence were, however, in 2019. We still didn't take this step, although we sharpened the sentence from one to two years in prison for sexual harassment until 2019. This applies only to persons to whom sexual harassment is directed and who are particularly vulnerable to age. Here we go a step further and as I have already said and in the presentation on behalf of the club it is commendable, it is as good, as it is good, and that the victims will no longer have to do within 3 months after the sexual harassment took place on the basis of a specific application, or a proposal to report the perpetrator, but it will be prosecuted according to official duty, which will not obsess over this work, and this has been an obstacle for many women in Croatia to actually report the perpetrators and to be punished, or to be found at least in the process of what really, indeed, has happened only because of this legal obstacle. It could have been done before, I've already said that in the beginning on behalf of the club, it's not good that just because of some kind of politics, things like this don't work and avoid, because that's why you don't take revenge on the opposition and you don't send a message to the opposition. If the laws are of quality, and you won't accept them just because they're a proposal for opposition, but the collateral victims of this kind of behavior in this case have been precisely women who have already been victims of sexual harassment and it's not good to do it that way. However, what I would like to say a little bit more about in this 2 and a half minute is this part where I and when I believe by consensus on Friday, or next Friday, this law, which we will do in order to put it more adequately because we have examples of both sanctioning or judicial epilogues and family and some other forms of violence where the lowest possible penalties are actually imposed, so it is very often that these low sentences as a second-degree court of the same sentence are also reduced. However, the second segment, which also, especially when we talk about sexual harassment, somehow seems to be a possible problem, is an unequal case law. We all remember that case of a police officer sexually harassed by her superior during the night shift where that case was actually released from any blame because that act only happened once. We also have a case of a girl, a high school student, where a professor called her in private on four occasions, so he equally sexually harassed her where the court actually refused to charge him because he estimated that his behavior wasn't sexually disturbing enough. On the other hand, one of the teachers of another school, he was judged because he hastily watched for four girls for months. Now, it's clear to me that we have a Penal Code here and we have a verb that is actually a permanent “disturbing, ” which in itself would mean repeating a certain action. We have, on the other hand, the Law on Discussing Discrimination that treats sexual harassment as a violation. Now, if the point is 2011. when the law has been passed and this sexual harassment has been introduced as, as an act in both laws, if the urgency was that if it happens once it is treated under the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination as an offence, and later on, if repeated as a criminal offence, let's give it a uniformity of that practice. But let's not cut these two laws, and the judge's assessment has happened enough times. Is it enough... [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54670	But stay, stay, you have replicas. Mrs. Devereaux. Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54671	Yes, it seems to me that we did not comment loudly and sharply enough on the fact that part of this legal meaning of the proposal was proposed by the SDP a few months ago and that it was not accepted just because it came from the opposition and then accepted now in these amendments and additions. Why is that problematic? You have already pointed out yourself, the victims have suffered, the law has not been passed before the rulings decided that this bill should be passed, but not only because, but because we are here bringing a very unhealthy political practice that anyone who is in opposition cannot possibly expect his legal proposal to pass, unless he acts then it is called a token and moves on to the ruling majority, which is actually blackmail and is not a guilty chip, but are guilty and those who have introduced such practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54672	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54673	You're absolutely right. You know that as an opposition, we support all 70% of the laws that come from the proposings or the government of the Republic of Croatia here. Some of us disagree, but in principle we support it, which is unfortunately not a mutual story. When we talk specifically about this, it's a harmful practice, and here in particular, look at some laws maybe, I don't know they'll refuse the opposition law, then that copy will fall into their proposal, in a few months they'll come before, before HS, that law will pass. However, here in this particular case it is indeed a matter of time, because if we had adopted the opposition's proposal in 3 months or 12 we'd have referred it to the procedure, it means that we adopted it then maybe some woman would have been able to seek legal satisfaction because sexual harassment would already be prosecuted by official duty. In this way, she went into that space and you said we're sorry it's been three months.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54674	Thank you. Mrs. Devereaux. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54675	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. My colleague, we are here to discuss the legislative proposal and what you have said I expect that when the conditions for voting are met and the vote is voted that we will not have, that there will actually be this law with all the green circles. But then we come to real life, we come to court practice, we come to reality, and it's good that it's both now and the minister with us because what we do is even the court's practice, make sure that these are history cases that you've listed, that these cases will no longer be repeated because as long as we don't have uniform court practice, as long as we don't react to the least we'll still have laws that might be okay and it'll be okay, but reality will be different. What do you think we should do next? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54676	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54677	So I think what I just told you, means education, not just judicial, when we talk about that system of violence, there are important from educational institutions through social care institutions, police officers, judicial officers. However, we see that in this part of unequal case-law, in fact, there is some injustice that rings far and wide, and there is a way to see how or through these specialised courts, through a number of educated judicial employees who are going to deal with only one segment of it, let's call it such a right, we can say what in which case concrete sexual harassment is, and not that it happens to us that one person is convicted because she has repeatedly looked at the girls in a hasty way. On the other hand, someone who sexually harassed them in the shops is actually being released because the judge’s assessment that there was not enough sexual harassment or that only happened once.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54678	Thank you very much. Mrs. Devereaux. Katica Glamuzina.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54679	Thank you. Fellow Glasovac, both of these amendments and additions to both of these laws are essentially, at least in the part where we talk about gender-based violence, are monitoring the implementation of the Council of Europe Convention to prevent the fight against violence against women i.e. Istanbul Conventions. Now that our HDZ colleagues are honoring us for why they ratified it, and we're not, we're somewhat right, we should have, it's not right, we're congratulating them who they are. But tell me what it means that they ratified that convention if they don't carry it out, if I have to go through three years. to enter some parts of this convention into national legislation?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54680	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54681	And in fact, the biggest shift and the only step I will dare say that was made precisely in this legislative framework and in establishing a 24-hour SOS line for victims of violence seven days a week. These are specific things where we see certain shifts. So we have an SOS line that we haven't had so far, we haven't had and we have a legislative framework that's changed here on two occasions, now we have to solve some more finesse in the implementation. But what we still don't have, we don't have, of course, in 6 counties we don't have shelters for women victims of violence. Where and where we have shelter, we have a problem with the sustainability of funding of the same because we know that in Croatia it is a very complex problem. What we still don't have are counselling sites that are very important to the subport not only post-festum but also in preventing such phenomena of domestic violence from happening at all, and we don't have stronger intervention in the education system and better coordination of all the resistors.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54682	Thank you. Mr. Zeljko Pavić at the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54683	Dear MPs, today we have heard from Mr. Minister that in fact in one part of the law we have made one step and that we actually have a completely new regulation that has not actually been introduced in most European countries, which is to be commended and I think that this is a great progress for us and we have already talked about it many times when we agree with the directives that we should step forward to be ahead of others. But what bothers me is that we actually through a law that is passed in one part abolized the perpetrators. We must no longer allow the perpetrators to be abolized in any way, regardless of whether it is some kind of forgiveness or just by chance because something went out of date. If we're going to have such a practice, where are we going to come from? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54684	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54685	Thank you. Well, now I'm going to be a little bit, I'm not going to be a spokeswoman of the government, but it's not one but more step away, because I've said it in the name of the club, it's important from the household to get away from the unsub, it's important to expand this pool of people concerned with criminality, criminal law to intimate partners, violence happens in intimate relationships that don't have any formal or informal legal conjecture to treat them as a family. Neither have children nor share households nor are formal and informal partners, marriage mates, etc., these are dealt with. And the third thing, no less important, is this when we talk about sexual harassment, and the pursuit of official duty, because this was actually the only work in that catalog that was left in the official post of prosecution, and this is what you were talking about, this is the biggest challenge and not just in this system of punishing or processing violence, gender-related violence rather than in almost all areas [[Intruder: Time.]] The justice system. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54686	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Thank you. We're going to the final debates by the clubs. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Centre and of the Voice and will speak to Mrs. Mariana Puljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54687	I thank the chairman. So here's to saying once again that we support the amendments to the Penal Code, especially in this section relating to the treatment of acts of sexual harassment of sexual violence, but I wanted, here for the end, to comment on that fact that often, if we have laws, here, changes that we support, we have laws that are good, but in practice we have problems in implementing these laws. So here, here, in this case, the Penal Code, some things are being fixed, and we don't actually have an exact analysis of what it is and which is why so far, what's been defined so far, which was wrong. Here it was announced, so the introduction of a new crime which would allow the processing of the so-called so-called crime. vengeful pornography, when said and heard in the media, would say that so far it has not been possible to process at all, this type of crime, whether, in the last five years, it has taken a wave and in global proportions, however, is actually talking about strengthening criminal protection, so here in the materials that we have received it writes, so it is not actually new, but it is increasing the existing legal protection. So these acts have so far been possible to process through other provisions of the Penal Code that protect privacy, but this system has not done so. Evidence, you also have in some examples that may have been a media recognition, here, for example, of a journalist's television, so media exposure, some cases that ended with judgments, so it could have been, but it didn't seem to protect the victims from these crimes. Which is why it wasn't prosecuted, which is why the victims gave up, here, we don't know, we can only assume that those who were on the first lines of defense, in the police, in the judiciary, didn't know in an adequate way how to help victims, referred them to their rights, but dimmed them by saying, here, nothing can be done, it's not a crime. So in Croatia, even when we are making changes to the law, we need to analyze the situations that we want to change, so not as some bad students just write new and new versions of the law, is it? If we had offered some kind of analysis in this case, we would have sent a clear message to all those victims who have not yet been able to report those crimes and perpetrators, and this way we're sending them a message, here, we're sorry if, until now, it's not possible to process, which is not really true. This bill contains another provision that we have welcomed, it is the non-depreciation of criminal acts relating to the sexual abuse of children and the fact that I have commented on someone in the replica here, so the abolition of antiquity for a certain type of crime always has positive effects on one side, and this is the possibility that, regardless of the time gap, social dangerous behavior is processed, but it has its so-called. The dark side, which is the one in the process, so if there is no statute of limitations, then the people who are involved in the system, who are working on detection and processing, are not under pressure, no one will think that they have not done their job, there will be no problem if it is accidentally processed within the shortest possible time. Is it, so it's one danger, is it, when things like this are introduced, that people get relaxed somehow, there's no deadline and there's no time. So what we need, apart from good laws, we need both effective justice and, as we've all been saying, we need penalties that will be such that they will detimise violent people from repeating or even doing their own misdemeanors at all. I will warn you of one more thing, I mentioned here today I was also HRT, which is that HRT as a public service did not sign the Media Code for Gender Equality on Report of Violence against Women, this media code was carried out in 2019 as a result of a European project that was done, so here, some of the guidelines of the Codex were that the media had to first condemn the act of violence and put the bully in the correlation of the perpetrators Criminal offense. [[Intruder: Time.]] So the victim never did. may be considered co-responsible. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54688	Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Katica Glamuzina, who will speak on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, also, finally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54689	Good afternoon, everyone. Hello. I will refer here more to the proposal to supplement the Law on the Protection of Family Violence, although this proposal is only a alignment with the amendments of the Penalty and the adoption of the Advocate's proposal for Gender Equality which she made in the public debate on amendments to the Penal Code. So, from the first moment of adoption of this law back in 2003. The law on protection against domestic violence has seen several changes, and they have always been in terms of improving the law, which is why the SDP supported these changes as it will this time. However, it is important to stress this, these amendments to both laws are, in essence, simple to follow the provisions of the Council of Europe Convention on the prevention of violence against women and domestic violence. And since the amendment states that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional funding in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, then the question remains why has this been three years since the ratification of this Convention, why has it gone to the wind when we took this obligation long ago, and implementation in legislation does not cost us anything as it writes? And to argue that the quality of the proposed amendments to the Penal Code justified a conscious waiting with the adoption of these amendments only because the first proposal came from the opposition such arguments were completely empty to the victims of the violence that we missed during that period of legal protection. I'm also going to say unseriously, boast about the ratification of a document that we've been missing for years and bring national legislation into line with it, of course I'm talking about Istanbul again. The latest report by the Ombudsman for children and gender equality determines the growth of domestic violence, especially at the time of the pandemic, and it is a pity that we have not made any more steps in the amendments to these laws, especially when they have already been specifically proposed from the opposition lines. Of course, maybe that's why. For example, the urgency of the action referred to in Article 1(1)(b) may be met. 4. In particular, the timing of setting a deadline instead of leaving it to the personal perception of urgency for the representatives of the relevant institutions and judges. Art. 4. says "all bodies acting for domestic violence are obliged to act urgently and all procedures under this law are urgent," but it is missed to define a specific deadline so that it means urgent to someone immediately and to someone for a few months. Further, in Art. 6. where the rights of victims are listed on two occasions, the said right of the victim shall be guaranteed only on its request, it shall be cited under the law ‘rightly, upon its request without undue delay, to be notified of the suspension, detention or escape of the defendants and to put beyond the power of the decision to impose safeguard measures or to abolish the precautions laid down for its protection or lay down the dismissal of convicts from the maintenance of the prison sentence and the right to be informed again on its own request of the actions taken in connection with the application and outcome of the proceedings’. It is very stressful and traumatic for victims of violence to have to address institutions repeatedly in order to have timely information regarding the violence they have survived, these rights should be guaranteed and met automatically, not only if they remember and encourage themselves to do so. Birth-based violence including domestic violence is something that undermines the fundamental values of our society, and it is good that legislation is progressing in this respect, but there remain problems in implementation because otherwise statistics would not show the rise of such violence. We need to think about additional solutions, about education in order to prevent, about civic education in schools, about budget financing of safe houses that are not enough so that such actions do not, as in Split, depend only on the efforts of civil associations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54690	Thank you, too. You have, there are no replicas, a breach of the Rules of Procedure yes. Mrs. Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54691	Thank you very much, Your Honor. A colleague hurt her ankle. The 238th Rules of Procedure incorrectly stating that we have missed their proposal only because it was theirs or came from the opposition, and their SDP president himself said as a proponent that it was not a good Penal Code which organic law was often because and was the reason why we rejected it because at the time when we discussed this proposal of yours, this proposal was at the last stage of preparation and here we are discussing it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54692	... And there goes the warning, of course. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mrs. Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54693	Thank you very much. I also feel that the officer has been injured. 238, given the fact that a distinguished colleague insults and constantly mentions ratification of the Istanbul Convention during the term of office of this government and afterwards does not adopt any new activities and the life of the Istanbul Convention until, on the other hand, she herself says that during their government, the Istanbul Convention and its ratification have simply not come into order. mentioning safe houses he doesn't have [[Thank you very much.]] And I'm asking how many safe houses [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much, Mrs. Bedekovic.]] /Speakers speak at the same time./... [[Intruder Radin: Mrs. Bedekovic, you said yours.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54694	You know it was a replica, you know it's a warning and let's not go any further because I'm going to have to give, and now I've given a warning. Here you go, Mrs. Glamuzina.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54695	Art. In 238, I'd just like to warn you about this kind of threatening behavior that a colleague of the former minister would have to know.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54696	Okay, you have a warning, of course. You have a warning. Mrs. Katarina Peovic in front of the HSS and Workers' Front Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54697	I'm just going to use this final exhibit to highlight three things that I don't think were sufficiently highlighted in the debate. So the first is that the laws are not enough, and we should constantly refer to the prosecutor's report on gender equality, which speaks of a significant increase in domestic violence of criminal nature, meaning that the increase from 28.8% in 2020 to 2019 is not enough, so continuing to tackle the problem and the solution to the problem only is not enough. So in a partnership with 2018, it is really important to emphasize and it is not enough to emphasize that the increase in women killed was over 50% and that of men with whom they were in intimate relationships. Moreover, that the system of prevention of gender-based violence, protection of victims and persecution of perpetrators does not fully fulfil its function, that we must note that all key laws and regulations remain to a greater extent unchanged and not in line with the Council of Europe Convention itself on the prevention and fight against violence against women and violence in the family, means the Istanbul Convention, and that this has not contributed to an effective fight against gender-based violence and that further establishment of effective and professional preventive mechanisms and services is necessary, except for the meaning of the law and in the implementation itself. But what's important here is to highlight, apart from the law and the co-financing, the very financial side of this problem, the material framework, not only the victims, not only the laws that will protect the victims of violence, but what we have also highlighted as the Workers' Front in the budget's very rebalancing itself, that it is constantly going to reduce the funds that are intended for this, so we went to increase the funds for the autonomous women's houses, right? This is the amount of only 350,000 kuna for the housing of victims of domestic violence in the budget itself, certainly insufficient, is it. But the third thing I would still like to point out again, and it seems to me that the SDP itself is not stressing enough, which is surprising to me, again, means the same legal proposal is passing just because it comes from the ruling ones. Why do I want to point that out? Because there's always talk of chips in our political scene, but then there's the question of how that chip flew over, so how did it come to fly over to that side, and it doesn't put the blame on this side that actually puts things in such a way that you won't get in the opposition if you're not on that side? That's where the guilt should be directed. Of course, maybe someone I don't know is a chip because he got some personal stuff in exchange, but if someone got in exchange for his law to pass, then here we need to resist with our finger all the time. I mean, it's totally unacceptable, we've figured out completely wrongly abnormal political relations as normal and we need to start warning all the time, we can't agree to this type of completely abnormal political action. So if the laws, if the policy is there to protect the social majority, then it is unacceptable that things are completely transparent and without any kind of social criticism, make it normal for the ruling not to support any proposal of the opposition. It's not normal, and we can't agree to that. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54698	Thank you very much, Mr. Peović, you're the new representative and I'm giving you the full right, but for 30 years it's been like that, whoever's in power, just so you know. But it's nice of you to say that and change that already, isn't it? But it was always like that. Finally, State Secretary Juro Martinovic will speak on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54699	Thank you, Vice-President of the HS, honourable MPs and MPs. So I can't do anything but express satisfaction as the secretary of state who I've participated in several parliamentary committees, and here today in this debate before HS in the way we've all treated these two important legal documents together. So according to amendments and additions to the Penal Code and amendments to the Law on Protection against Family Violence. Since I've been dealing with criminal law for a long time, so outside of politics, I have to say that whenever the laws of the criminal sphere change, then basically society sends a message about what the relationship of society to the perpetrators is. That is why I am pleased that I can almost conclude that we are as a legislative body, so on the government's initiative we all have sent a strong message through these two laws, which as Parliament and what we do not agree with as a society, and that we want to protect better what social values we are and how we will treat those who violate the standards that this Parliament has adopted with our documents. So I have to say something in the shortest possible terms, given that the distinguished representative Katarina Peovic has repeatedly repeated in the assembly today that it is that, that the ruling majority, at one point, has rejected the law of opposition that is now repeating here and bringing. Of course, fiction isn't like that. It can be done, such a message can be sent, but it's wrong if we send it like that. It is true that the SDP Club had an initiative to amend an article of the Penal Code. He was encouraged by social events and I, unfortunately or unfortunately, was the one in parliament defending the reason why we did not accept such an initiative, which was not long ago, so we had an open working group to amend and supplement the Penal Code. It was not opportunised and sound and it would not be correct to the Croatian public, professional and unprofessional, but also to the taxpayers that we change the same legal document on two occasions in 3 or 4 months. So two times we bring amendments and additions to the Penal Code. There was no dilemma within the working group that this thing proposed by the SDP at the time, so it was already drawn in these changes and that is something that is essential, everything else is allowed for discussion and I have nothing against it, but the invoice is like this. So several times I've talked here and about good laws, which I've always enjoyed because for five years now I've been involved in the creation of legislative documents, especially those relating to the criminal justice sphere, because somehow it's my part as State Secretary at the Justice Department, now the Ministry of Justice and Administration. All these discussions I must say have their arguments and their reasons but we must all be aware that we are a democratic society in which power-sharing is something that binds us all. So, but also that the judicial, legislative, executive, but also the rule of law commits everything, and the rule of law imposes upon us to obey laws and to respect those laws that speak who judge, who persecute, who discovers who makes the laws. It is dangerous for anyone to interfere in any way with how the courts will judge. Our message to the government is through the initiative, the most common initiative, even if the initiative of the amendment, the adoption of legal documents can also go from parliamentary representatives, your message as parliament is through legal documents, and it is theirs to apply them. Of course, there is no ban on each other's perceptive criticism, but as they will be judged, it is simply their business. I must tell you as a man who has participated in a lot of court proceedings that the judge is the only one and two parties, so he who prosecutes and the one who defends full insight into the actual substrate of that file, and that decision must indeed be the product of a high-quality factual state, quality application of the material law, so this Penal Code and, of course, respect for all procedural tools of both sides and a high level of guarantee of human rights and defendants or defendants. It's something that binds us all so I understand your discussions, but I must, I must state my position on this problem. I agree with one, that our laws must be such that, with respect to the potential perpetrators of criminal offences at the moment, we are talking about this sphere today, so the legislative response must be such that the norm is dissuasive, the procedure of the police as the first body to come into contact with the perpetrators must also be in a stable manner not repressive but deterrent, and afterwards the reaction of the state's attorney, which is being persecuted and the final reaction of our courts must be so dissuasive. All the other things that you have said today, and I agree with you a total social reaction through a number of other tools because criminal law is only the last measure so the ultims fought, and everything else is something that needs to be in the function of deterrence. We must all be able to individually, and as a society to direct social contempt to every potential perpetrator, but also to anyone who has committed a crime who has been tried evenly rehabilitated. Just one more thing, therefore, the ban on working with children, the ban on working even spoke to women for people who have committed violence of this kind that we have talked about today is something that can go through measures, but there is no lastingly simply criminal legal tools, but there is no obstacle to individual social segments such as education, kindergartens and some other institutions through legislative frameworks that they create in the employment policy of protection against those who have committed crimes. Here's another thank you for contributing and for the quality of the discussions we had in these two legal documents.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54700	Thank you, too, because you have three replicas. Mrs. Anka Dark Taritash, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54701	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, it was seen through the debate that we were satisfied with these legal changes, that we were supporting them and that the debate was being held a day behind. So, the law will be passed, we'll have laws and what you said, and we're all aware that judges are different. We're all aware that the judiciary is independent, but is there, therefore, an education? Balance is one of the tools, but I'm sure there are some other tools that you can have in your hands and that, in fact, I'm also sure that the resolution minister doesn't feel very well when he sees that two judges in two different places in Croatia have decided differently especially when it comes to the most sensitive groups. But I'm sure there are some democratic tools that will actually encourage you to, to even it out together and we don't have that ugly picture, so maybe you can tell us a few sentences about what you've been thinking and whether you're thinking about such tools. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54702	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54703	Dear Representative Dark Taritash, so I appreciate what you're talking about. I have to tell you it's not dark, it's not a gray zone of Croatian justice. We have in all courts the so-called so-called "higher courts" in charge of equating court practice and which we have so-called "judgmental" in other stages. departments of records. I don't know if any of you here now know what that department of records means, I know that here and some lawyers I know personally, so it's a department that shouldn't let two decisions come out of that court with a similar or identical fact-finding substrate, which is almost difficult, to come out of two different decisions. It's a department that can get the court ruling back when the council's already out, bring it back and say noun we already have one decision of the same nature and we can't let it out. It's always happening, we're working on it, the Supreme Court is equating judicial practice in both segments and in the criminal and civil spheres, so that's where they work. process tools that will improve things I am convinced of. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54704	Thank you very much. Mrs. Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54705	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I don't know if you've listened to my debate where I've asked you a question that I'm about to ask you now because you didn't look back. So, to what extent today, the state/resorship ministries are involved in funding in violence prevention programmes, in psychosocial treatment programmes, or in the implementation of psychosocial treatment and the establishment of safe houses in counties where they are not yet available. Please specifically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54706	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54707	So I'd say we're completely free to be very involved, so we're not talking about what we're talking about today and therefore, of course, the initiative comes from both the NGO sector and the various resolutions and from the discussions that are happening here, but these phones, the free houses wouldn't have been if the state hadn't shown willingness to allocate funds for it. The NGO sector that is often and in these legal documents has participated a lot, they have been with us in the working group that is the sector, I may now caricate little things, but of course that's what taxpayers, through government decisions, finance. At the Department of Justice and Administration, we have the Victims' Department, so we have a service that deals with victims, we have these departments at county courts, we strengthen the network, and this year we've decided that we're going to introduce these departments into three more county courts. So it's a total social effort. Which again and never are enough... [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54708	Thank you. And finally Mrs. Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54709	Well, Secretary of State, if you say that the task force has already been established and that nothing else has been proposed by substance, then my thesis stands. It is not an emergency that the Penal Code is too often not changed because the organic law is there so that it does not formally change anything too often but rather that it does not change in another way or that one decision does not come after the other and changes what was previously made. If it was already quite clear that it would be adopted in this way, then the more argument should be made that the opposition's proposal should actually be accepted. And I just have to say that it's kind of disappointing that the minister didn't have to stay until the end of the debate on his subject, I think that the general ministers in this government should be a little bit more zealous in the debate, not leaving in the middle of the debate on their points.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54710	The answer, excuse me, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54711	Maybe a little joke. I'm a professional defense attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54712	Mr. Martinovic, excuse me, one moment. He didn't leave in the middle of a debate. We know that. He left a little while ago. Okay, that's my word, and now I give you my word.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54713	Professionally, but defending the minister so the minister went to the government went to the very end, but he went to the government meeting and that's it. But I have to tell you that as part of what you've been saying several times today that we haven't let it go into opposition law procedures, it's simply true, but the arguments are such that there's no point in changing the same law twice, twice in a short period of time, so change and supplementing the Penal Code, and the thing is, we're going to do it. Of course, it was spoken today on boards, but also on the Parliament that something could have happened in the intervening room, so no decriminalization took place. These people were still protected by the same impediment that nothing happened here. So, of course, there remained a variant when it became socially bright I doubt that any person of any fear when it saw so much light of day wouldn't have reported it if it had happened in this three-month interval.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54714	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. You have no more replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54715	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54716	I hereby conclude the debate, the joint discussion of the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code and the final proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Protection against Family Violence and we will vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54896	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.03 HOURS]] The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. Whether the applicant's representative wishes to give an additional explanation. Yes, Secretary of State Natasha Mikush Zigman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54897	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. Here, I'm glad I have a chance to present this bill. What we are editing or proposing to edit this proposal is specific contractual relations that are characteristic of this rapidly growing era of digitisation. It is a legal arrangement as the name of the regulation itself speaks, so the aspects of the contract on the supply of digital content and digital services. This proposal for a law transposes Directive 2019/770 into the national legislation of the Republic of Croatia. This Directive, and then, of course, and this bill for the first time regulates legal relations that have so far been regulated at the level of all EU Member States, and thus Croatia has been insufficiently regulated, so there have been certain legal gaps, namely these particular aspects, so when we talk about digital content and digital services, and thus the Directive, and then this law regulates issues related to the compliance of such content with the contract, the way digital content and services are delivered, the legal consequences resulting in the absence of such compliance or the supply of specific content and services and the individual aspects and the fulfillment of the digital content and digital services. What I would like to stress is that the directive itself is based on the principle of maximum harmonisation, which means that Member States cannot deviate from the requirements set out in the Directive, all in order to ensure uniform application in all EU Member States. Namely, one of the key factors that are somehow responsible for the lack of a sense of consumer security, so all of us who buy such content is at this point, so I was talking about a legal void, hence the lack of a clear contractual framework for the delivery of such content or service. In fact, many consumers face difficulties in quality or delivery of such content or services, e.g. What can happen is that they get the wrong or incorrect digital content, that they cannot access certain content or services and therefore, of course, suffer financial or non-financial damage. As I said, in most Member States and so on, and in Croatia, there has been no specific national regulation so far that would in a comprehensive way regulate that area and even in those segments where it was not in some way regulated in some Member States, there were significant differences between one country and another, and precisely because of such differences, companies that now look at the delivery of services, or content, companies that do so and which come out of the market had additional costs of harmonisation when placing their products on the foreign market, and consumers then also lack of trust in cross-border purchases since they could not count on a uniform consumer's rights at EU level. Therefore, both companies and consumers should be able to rely on fully harmonised contractual rights in certain key areas with regard to the delivery of precisely such content and services. What is this proposal for a regulation? On the one hand, clear criteria are laid down in accordance with which a specific digital content or digital service is deemed to be in conformity with the contract. Furthermore, rules relating to the delivery modes of such content or service, as well as the means of assuming the fulfillment of the contract, are laid down the rights and obligations of traders and consumers and consequently the legal consequences resulting from non-compliance or non-delivery. In view of the specificities of this type of contract, therefore, with the digital context of such contracts, rules on the possibility of changing the digital content, we know that it is one matter that is rapidly changing in a fast, short period of time and therefore implies the possibility of changing the content in terms of determining the assumptions or conditions under which it can occur. Finally, supervision of the application of this Act, which will be carried out by the State Inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia, inspection measures, procedures and, of course, criminal sanctions in case of infringement of the provisions of this Act by traders, is also prescribed. Here, I can conclude that the adoption of this Act will take place, as I said, timely and full compliance with European regulations, with European legislation, will increase the security for consumers and businesses operating on that market and harmonised rules in all Member States, so businesses, and especially what is important for Croatia, so small and medium-sized enterprises, would facilitate the supply of digital content or digital services across the EU or on the single European market. The Directive shall apply from 1 January '22. Sir, and by adopting this regulation, it will be possible, therefore, for several months to adapt to traders, but of course to consumers. Here, next, I suggest that HS confirm this bill and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54898	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Matula,
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54899	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, I'm interested in what you think about why these penalties are actually relatively low between 10 and 100,000 kunas and do you think it can be Internet giant types that don't list all but Google, Apple, Microsoft, Facebook, etc., can it be them, especially Amazon, which is very trade-related, can it be dissuasive for them such fines? I understand that they are not obliged to account for us unfortunately, but we do know that at the end of last year the European Commission decided to go in a different direction in a much more serious way with these giants.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54900	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54901	Thank you very much for your question. It is, of course, a very important topic and what we have provided for this bill is in line with the provisions of the applicable Law on Mandatory Relations in terms of sanctions, so we have one analogous application, but it is also necessary to stress that there will also be a possibility that through the adoption of a new law the possibility of collective consumer protection when there is a breach of consumer rights in more than one number, and therefore this directive will be prescribed, which we will also transpose into our legislation, that just like this may be punished by 4% of the profits of the trader's annual income, so globally, yes, then it will be dealt with through some other regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54902	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54903	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, I must just say that as a union we are quite reactive in regulating this market and not only this market we are proactive and that something should think about it at Union level and then at the level of the legislator. But you have said certain things that should be changed by adopting or transposing this directive into Croatian legislation, which means increasing the level of consumer protection, which is clear, how and where. Also make it easier for our companies to access other markets. However, it remained a little unclear, and it is said here, that the costs of companies should be reduced. So I don't see how they'll cut costs except that they'll eventually have easier access to the market. Can you explain that a little bit?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54904	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54905	Thank you very much. I do not know exactly what part of the rules you refer to in terms of cost reductions, but in any case, if contract rules are known and even at the level of all EU Member States, then it certainly makes it easier for our businesses to go to other markets, and thus indirectly and to reduce their costs. I don't know if there's any other part of the law that's been referred to.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54906	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I am opening the debate and will be the first to speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, the esteemed representative Željko Pavić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54907	Thank you very much, well-respected chairman, respected secretary of state with a co-worker, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. This proposal of the Law on certain aspects of the contract on the supply of digital content and digital services ahead of us and which we should discuss has not caused much public interest during the public debate phase. This can point to the fact that as consumers, we are not aware of how much content and services we buy, digital content and services or we supply in digital form or the fact that consumers are not even aware that they can or should be able to influence the trader or manufacturer in the event of a failure to comply with the relevant digital content, and that they should also be able to influence the provision of better consumer access to digital content and digital services. The fact is that in most Member States there is no specific national legislation that is comprehensively governed by the area of supply of digital content and digital services, and that there is a legal gap in EU legislation in this respect, as Mrs. The secretary, taking into account in particular that there are EU countries in which this area is arranged, but the right arrangement differs from country to country. And there's actually that space that was just being talked about, the replica asked a question, actually where are the savings if we have a unique approach for deliveries to all EU countries then we'll certainly have less costs, we don't need to adapt to every country in particular with the standards that we need to deliver during the delivery of digital content. These differences lead to additional costs for the time being, and consumers have less confidence in buying in foreign countries. The EU Digital Content Directive that we are harmonising with this law except as regards data produced and supplied in digital form, such as Music and Internet videos, and on all permanent data carriers used as digital recorders such as DVDs and CDs also refer to services that allow data exchange and through social networks such as. Facebook or Youtube. But it also refers to services that allow the creation, processing or storage of data in the digital cloud, which is, in some ways, news to us. Most natural persons don't use that convenience, they use companies in various forms, and I'll talk about it a little later, about these forms of service. Besides, they also refer to the over-the-top... communication services and what is extremely important also relate to the processing of personal data. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is important to mention in this law the number of data, personal data and to take care of it since we know what has been going on with us so far and we have always been on account of the sacred initiative to protect the processing of personal data. We are aware that ensuring better access by consumers to digital content and digital services, enabling businesses to deliver digital content more easily and digital services can contribute to fostering the digital economy and general growth. As a result, this law is extremely important for IT companies and businesses that intend to create and process and prepare in computer form, so it is realistic to expect that these and such companies will propose, in the coming period, additions and amendments to this law with a view to providing better and better quality services and access to real-time data in accordance with contract conditions and consumer satisfaction. For now, as we have heard, we must respect the directive as it is, however, and later on, we have the opportunity to little and service those measures that are prescribed in the directive, but so far there is no need, given that we do not have anything currently in place. On the other hand, this part of the regulation is also important for consumers who have decided to store the purchased or listed digital content in cloud computing or computer form. It is necessary to note and draw attention to the legislator that this law does not discuss service models in computer form, so the service models and conditions offered by individual service models will have to be run by suppliers on the one hand, as well as by consumers who have decided to use computer formats on the other. It is expected that the draft law on certain aspects of the contract on the supply of digital content and digital services will affect the rapid growth of the EU's digital market because it should affect the removal of barriers to cross-border trade while reducing the uncertainty of businesses and consumers created by the complexity of the legal framework as well as the costs of companies resulting from differences in contract law. At the same time, this law should have an impact on increasing consumer confidence as it will ensure uniform rules that clearly define consumer rights. For the time being in this proposal, the law cannot be deviated from the requirements set out in the EU Directive as the Digital Content Directive is based on the principle of maximum harmonisation and, as well as when harmonising with other EU directives, it is possible for EU countries to adopt stricter legislation than those prescribed in the EU Directive, so it is expected that, if necessary, legislation will be applied in Croatia if necessary in order to maintain the level of consumer protection. Here I think not only of consumers as recipients of digital content but also of companies that will later deliver these digital content. I believe that we will find ourselves in problems it will not be a problem in the sense that something will not be delivered but rather the matter is actually the cost and cost of delivering certain content. Also, since the EU Directive was published in May 2019, and we adopt this law in 2021, and given the rapid development of IT technology, there is the possibility that we will have to work on a termological alignment because some technologies and individual holders of digital content simply disappear and change them new, better, faster and safer data carriers. The law mentions DVDs, CDs, etc., as permanent holders of digital content, I'm afraid that one part of these carriers has already disappeared and we no longer have the device where we could put them unless it's films or this is about music that we put into our devices. It is good that the law also defines inspection supervision, so it is clear who will conduct it and how. The fact that the draft law today is in its first reading and will enter into force on 1 January 2022 will allow traders and consumers the opportunity to prepare for the right way and to respect the regulatory requirements prescribed from the first day of application for the provisions of Article 27(2) which states that the provision of this law applies to the supply of digital content or digital services implemented from 1 January 2022, he writes there, with the exception of Article 20, 21 of this Act, which applies only to contracts concluded from that date, which means that the obligation of the trader to deliver by the provisions of the law will be from 1 January 2022, regardless of the possibility that the contract is concluded earlier. So what we are discussing today 5 months earlier is very good for our, for our businesses, for our suppliers of this digital content because they can be prepared to deliver these contents in the right form or to prepare them in the right form so that, as of January 1, 2022, we can get them in the right form and deliver them not to subject them to any penalties. The first case is that this exemption implies this Article 21 and 22, that if the trader corresponds to the consumer because digital content or digital service has not been delivered or because of the inconsistencies that occurred by doing or failing a particular person in the previous stages of the transaction chain, the trader has the right to legal protection against the responsible person, and then this content may also be different or there may be exceptions to the delivery of 1.2. Article 22 speaks of the same similar deliveries that are actually an exception, but what I would like to mention is that it is really commendable that we have finally a law in preparation, that we will discuss it in time, that our producers can prepare for use or that they can respect that regulation from the very beginning, and not actually go all retroactively and bring our producers and our companies into an unspeakable position because they cannot deliver anything. I think that we will also help our consumers who also know or can know if they read the law and legislation that awaits them and what they can actually expect from producers or suppliers of digital content and digital services. I hope that the other suppliers present in the state and the banks and all others who offer us digital content so that I believe that we will all be satisfied and that our consumers will be protected even more than they have been before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54908	The next Club of Representatives will be that green-left block, and will be spoken by respected representative William Matula. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54909	Thank you, Vice President. Respected secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. It is obvious that in this proposal, the law on certain aspects of the contract on the supply of digital content and digital services actually works only on harmonisation and that this law is fully in line with the Digital Content Directive. And in that sense, there's not too much to talk about this very short, in that sense, core law that we're making right now, so application is going to be '22, as the secretary of state said. This is not a directive regulation, there is no legal force, but it is that it pushes us all in a common direction, or what is based on what is well stated here on the principle of maximum harmonisation and which also says that it means that Member States cannot deviate from the requirements laid down in this Directive. At the same time, however, we should certainly maintain the level of consumer protection we already have at our national level. But here I asked that question, I talked to IT experts and they looked at this law and they told me that on the one hand it's interesting that we're really coming back, I guess you're loaded with this because otherwise I can't explain that a law like this is passed at almost the last minute and that, among other things, it's justified and it explains why the debate at the end of the eConsultation only lasted two weeks. Because so far it has to be brought, I guess that's how it is. In any case, only one person appeared, and she had these three remarks, some in which she tried to refer to another directive from before. You explained that there was no need and that it had to be as the law was proposed, so there was nothing possible to change. And my impression is that you've actually listed how many people are there and you've talked about how many people are interested in us, and it's developing more and more, and today in free speech, a colleague was talking first about how industry and gaming are developing, and now there's a study to produce computer games. I simply cannot believe that all of our people who are doing business more and more online to not have the need here to at least say something in principle, although I agree that, that this digital content directive itself is not controversial, but it is clearly insufficient in that sense I agree with you. What is said is that the European Commission has decided that it must really put more serious pressure on technology companies. Among other things, it insists that they are forced to explain at all how these famous algorithms work, which many will say that it is really hard to believe that this is going to work at all because these are such algorithms that all of our data, what we have in the press and what is clear to us is that we can make some imagination out of it, and that is that any of our data that we leave on the Internet is, of course, taking Amazon from one side now, if we decided to trade over Amazon and get some of our own little Internet store there. At the same time, however, if we are truly innovative, and that is why Europe has sued the Amazon, it has proved that if Amazon sees that it is really something truly new that has not occurred to them yet, and it has all occurred to them that then Amazon will immediately make its application and make it impossible for them to work further. Europe tried to sue it in this sense was not active enough, but then tried to afterwards save you that, it proved that, of course, Amazon has very, very good, I will be figurative, but a pack of dangerous and angry lawyers with whom not even the European Commission with all its legal experts is in any way coming in line. And that's why I'd like to mention some of these companies here, we're talking about the Law of Copyright about what it does to us and imposes Netflix, Deeser, Spotify and how it manages to impose itself. So the performers are now forced through our discographers for very little money if they are in crisis forever giving up these copyrights that will be taken together by Deeser, Spotify Netflix, and then with us producers or I turn to this part of the conversation, it may not seem to be the subject, but I do think it has a lot to do because the laws in which we have to do Croatia together with our allies in the EU, we must really push in this direction as announced, which is that these penalties will be increased and that they will be degreeed, it is also expensive for me to hear, so the next penalty should be even stronger, I want that in this direction we take up here and that we support such things, that after that, if it is not the first sentence, the second sentence, it is enough for these really large companies, that after that there are some additional measures to do so, that here, we heard, at the end of last year, that we are even suggesting that if they will not be able to be able to make a huge business in any way, in any way. But here, I'm going to finish now, I'm not going to drain this time, I just have to say because we heard this, I think that it was now on Monday, it was recently, that we heard that the Facebook company just because it beat all those who in America attacked them for association in trust, in such cartels, along with similar companies and especially those companies that they bought, the fact that all these claims fell and that they got in some places second-degree levels, raised their stock value by 4.66%, which resulted in the capitalisation of 1,000 billion dollars is now capitalisation, total, no, not all of it jumped for so much, but at present, they're capitalization, so they're shares that are not in the vault but those shares that are out there and then, each of which is multiplied with these, with this price, they get total capitalisation of over 1,000 billion dollars. Well, it's really for worry yourself, it's stronger than a number of states. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54910	The next club of representatives will be that of the Homeland Movement, and will be spoken by respected representative Davor Dretar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54911	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, Your Honor. State secretary with an associate. My colleagues and colleagues. We just need to be really how important this Law is, as one of the many around which we will discuss here in HS in the coming years, for all of us, both for the economy and for our personal life. Computers, information technologies, at an incredible rate, enter our daily lives, enter, of course, production processes, sometimes even by some force that amazes us a little bit or even scares us from time to time. I believe that the super-fast development of information technologies and their use in everyday life is a huge problem with the legislative norm because it will be very difficult and I believe that we will, Madam. State secretaries and you and your working groups have a lot of work to do in the years ahead of us in the next 5, 10 years, to simply follow the laws of the development of information technologies and, of course, their apps in everyday life or in the economy. More often, of course, we're going to have to change the laws, and this is, I believe, just the beginning of a long time. I believe that we will be successful on this path because, once again, development is extremely rapid and these are extremely fast and important laws. Just to remind you, from the invention of steam machines, the first industrial revolution started, it lasted 80 years, and actually, when we look from today's perspective, it didn't happen much, the steam machine found its applications in various branches of industrial production, and it took 80 years for civilization. Thanks to my colleague Pavic for the information, yet the man is an expert, so I asked him, what we call cloud technology today, became widely available just over 10 years ago. So we have to be aware that it's 2021 today and that this time that we live in is one day going to be talking almost to the stone age of information technologies and it's not going to be 200 hundred years from now, it's going to be 20, 30 years from now. You can see for yourself that such rapid development in humans sometimes creates resistance, as a race, as an animal species, and let's admit that we are, only we're lucky to rule this planet or plate, as someone claims, we sometimes fear change and it makes it avaistic. We're witnesses in this time of day that people are afraid of chipping us with vaccines, what exactly are they ordering? I asked a few people who claim to actually chip us, tell me exactly what they're doing to you. They copy me and then they'll know where I'm going, what I eat, what I do. Extraordinary. You got Facebook? He says I have, so you said I'm following you on Facebook, today morning you announced what you had for breakfast, then you announced who you were having coffee with, and then you announced that you were going on a trip for the weekend, so, completely unconscious or simply with a desire to point out amongst that amazing amount of human individuals, we give away our personal data. And here in this law, I apologize if I go wide, appear and are very important. Now that I mention it, and that cloud technology, all of us, we have to admit sometimes a bit of aging technology. I went to buy a laptop recently, I was surprised that the laptops didn't have any more hard drive, it was very strange to me, where is my information? Mr. Dretar, in the cloud or in your cloud. I had no idea about that, I admit it. I asked for an installation CD for the Office package, they told me you're gone, they gave me a piece of paper with a code, you go over there and that page and you download the program to your computer. Well, we're not even aware of how digital we are to quote again a respected colleague of Pavic's. In that direction, I suppose, and I'm sure we should also develop a Croatian economy. They have shown themselves in times of Covid crisis our entire information sector is extremely resilient and it is a great honor for them. Within the planetary crown of the crisis, Croatia created the so-called A unicorn, a company worth more than a billion dollars. So, honest, hardworking, and extremely talented people clearly show us a way in which we too must move on with development. I'm sure our futures aren't smoky steel, big cokes or some big hot stoves from which we're going to pour huge steel structures. This is our future. And this law, or bill of law, and the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club, absolutely supports it because only one in which is not the law that we have to pass in order to welcome everything that the future will confront us with. We know for ourselves, so I say a few things in a few minutes and the facts that happen to us every day. It is mentioned in this proposal of the law and the terms of the contract how to respect them, how to regulate them, and of course how to act unless they are respected on either side of the contract. Let's be realistic when we download something on our computers and our phones very simply, quickly and without any thought we click on the so-called. Turns off the agreement and we don't even think about anyone I don't know whether exactly any of us have thought to before you download click on opening turns off agreement. Is it someone, I personally admit it never did. It just doesn't work. Speaking of famous algorithms, I admit, I'm personally intimidated by the fact that a tiny piece of plastic and a program that at any moment knows where I am, what I'm doing, and that's what I've been buying, where I buy, how I buy, and how much money I spend on it. One likable anecdotes, a few days ago my friend looked over one website at only the prices of garden carts, we would say Zagorci wanted to buy points for his garden and several kinds of seeds, the other day he got over 15 offers to buy a tractor. So it was really I have to admit very likable. The fact is that our data, personal data, data on our habits today became goods, and money is a kind of goods. We often see, of course, the abuse of trading such data, hacker attacks on databases that have become an extremely lucrative activity. Our user data is being sold, our personal data is being sold, of course our access passwords are being sold, all together it's a major threat that needs to be managed well and learned to live. It will certainly be very useful except for the adoption of such laws to work on raising the informational literacy of our population. I suggested, and I believe that fellow Pavić, who comes from the same county as I, will also support the introduction of some small ideas that could help, small information mobile cells that would travel to rural areas and those grandparents and show little that they can and can use their computers, if not their own, to allow them at least once a week to get to them the Internet connection so that Grandma hears her grandson in Ireland or wherever she is. However, in any case, if I don't owe, the Bill's proposal on certain aspects of the contract on the supply of digital content and digital services, absolutely stands, absolutely needs to be passed and the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club will also support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54912	The next Club of Representatives will be the Croatian sovereigns, Croatia's respected representative Zekanovic will speak, he is gone, he is losing his right to speak, and the next one will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Tomislav Okrosa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54913	... The representatives of the Ministry are present before us with the Proposal for a Law on certain aspects of the contract on the supply of digital content and digital services, which has arisen from the transposition of the provisions of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2019 on certain aspects of the contract on the supply of digital content and digital services, etc. [[Specially enabled.]] The Digital Content Directive. The Digital Content Directive itself aims to contribute to the proper functioning of the internal market while ensuring a high level of consumer protection by laying down common rules on certain requirements for contracts between traders and consumers on the supply of digital content or digital services. In particular, as regards the rules on the compliance of digital content or digital services with the contract of legal means in the event of non-compliance or not delivery, as well as ways to achieve such remedies and changes in the digital content or digital service. The adoption of this Directive and the transposition of its provisions into Croatian legislation want to fill the legal gap in EU and its members' legislation on the supply of digital content. The Digital Content Directive refers to the supply of digital content and includes data produced and delivered in digital form, which includes music, Internet videos and other services, which allow for the creation, processing or storage of data in digital form, and which takes place when data are stored in the cloud. It also includes services that allow the exchange of data such as Facebook or Youtube and applies to all permanent data carriers that are used exclusively as digital content carriers such as DVDs. The processing of top interpersonal communications services contract packages and personal data processing are also included in the scope of the Digital Content Directive. The Directive... safe and future need of Member States for harmonised legislation, when the services mentioned are concerned. The Digital Content Directive is based on the principle of maximum harmonisation, which means that Member States cannot deviate from the requirements laid down in the Directive itself. However, EU countries are given room to overcome requirements regarding certain aspects in particular in order to maintain the level of consumer protection already applied at national level. Harmonisation of the provisions of the directive has been implemented by the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development as a body responsible for the protection of consumers and the digital economy. By passing this law, we want to strengthen the digital economy of the Republic of Croatia and enable it to interact better with partners in other EU Member States. Furthermore, the uncertainty faced by businesses and consumers due to the complexity of the legal framework and the cost of companies caused by differences in contract law between Member States will be reduced, and consumer confidence will be increased by ensuring uniform rules with clear consumer rights. It is important to provide for a legal framework which lays down rules relating to contracts for the supply of digital content or digital services, in particular rules on compliance with the contract and remedies for non-compliance or the supply of digital content or digital services. The scope of this law does not apply to any contract in which the trader delivers to the consumer digital content or digital services and the consumer pays or is obliged to pay the price. apply also where the consumer does not pay the price, but delivers or undertakes to supply personal data to the trader, unless the personal data delivered is processed solely for the purpose of delivering digital content or digital service or for the trader to be in accordance with legal requirements. Another objective of the law is to raise the level of consumer protection and enable them to use digital services more easily and securely. Consumers do not always feel safe when buying across borders, especially when buying online. Many consumers also face difficulties with regard to quality or access to digital content or digital services. For example. obtain the wrong or incorrect digital content or digital services or cannot access the digital content concerned or that digital service, and therefore consumers suffer financial and non-financial damage. The law itself prescribes rules on the compliance of digital content or digital services with the contract in such a way as to determine subjective and objective assumptions and deadlines according to which digital content or services are deemed to be harmonised. Modes of delivery of digital content or digital service, alterations of digital content or digital service in terms of the determination of assumptions and conditions under which such change is authorised and on the legal means in the event of infringement of the provisions of the law, and the prescribing of authorised bodies to exercise supervision of the enforcement of the provisions of the law and the regulation of appropriate and effective criminal sanctions in the event that the trader acts contrary to the provisions of this law. By passing this law, we want to implement timely and full harmonisation with European legislation in the field of supplying digital content or digital services. Our goal is to ensure legal certainty by removing legal gaps relating to certain aspects of the contract for the supply of digital content and digital services. Then we will reduce the cost of businesses and increase the level of consumer protection, overall strengthening consumer confidence and fostering their business activity across the EU. We would also like to point out that this law guarantees all legal certainty. In addition to this law, a high level of consumer protection aims to achieve the preconditions for a truly unique digital market, which will mean additional opportunities for our companies involved in the digital economy. The HDZ advocates' club will support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54914	The next club of representatives will be that of HSS and the Workers' Front, and will be spoken by the respected representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54915	Good afternoon, everyone. So this is the proposal for a law on certain aspects of the contract on the supply of digital content and digital services, I will concentrate on digital services. We see that this is another deja vu every week law is one, and each alignment with the European acquis is as well said and most of these laws do not have an excessive impact on the working majority's lives. Last week, the Law on Mandatory Relations introduced specific rules on the obligations of sellers in the event of the purchase of things with digital elements in consumer contracts. This is about harmonising with a European directive relating to consumer protection, but also to sellers. I certainly welcome that directive and that law, but I say once again just harmonisation. This law fully transposes one Directive of the European Parliament from 2019 on certain aspects of the contract for the supply of digital content and digital services, which will be of particular importance to us. The rules relating to the supply of digital content or digital services are also laid down, in particular, rules on compliance with the contract and remedies in case of non-compliance or supply of digital content or digital service. This law prescribes rules only shortened because the predecessors have repeatedly repeated this, so rules on the harmonisation of digital content or digital services with a contract in a way that determines subjective and objective assumptions and deadlines according to which digital content or digital service is deemed to be harmonised. Two ways of delivering digital content or digital services, and then modifying digital content and digital services in terms of determining the assumptions and conditions under which this amendment is authorised, and then by means of legal means in the event of infringement of the provisions of the law, and by prescribing authorised bodies to exercise supervision of the enforcement of the provisions of the law, prescribing appropriate and effective infringements in the event that the trader acts contrary to the provisions of this law, etc. Our digital companies will have, I agree, the same contractual terms as everyone in Europe, and that's good, so it's especially good because they protect those small companies here. But what would really be useful, but it will not be seen so clearly quickly in this assembly or seen, but when it comes from the opposition it cannot be adopted, so we wait for it to come from that part of the assembly. What would really benefit in this segment is about taxing the profits of digital giants that provide digital services. They get profits, but that profit is not taxed in Croatia. Digital corporations have been evaluating the world's largest companies in the last two decades. The global crisis associated with Covid-19 did not affect them at all, however, so some of them were doing very well in the crisis. Let's say in the second quarter of 2020. Amazon recorded a 40% income growth. Large digital companies have also been champions of tax evasion for decades. There are known frauds such as the double Irish or LuxLeaks in which prominent politicians such as Jean-Claude Juncker participated. I like to say here that we are prone to corruption, but it is not the specificity of Croatia alone, corruption is a global phenomenon, so believe it or not Jean-Claude Juncker participated in such a scam that has been protected annually from taxes by hundreds of billions of corporate American dollars. Otherwise, according to the research, this was the beginning of such legislation, which will come to us sooner or later, according to the 2018 European Parliament's Special Committee on Financial Crime. Apple is probably in the period from 2015 to '17. paid only 0.7% of EU profit tax between 2010 and '19. 6 digital giants abroad reported over 700 billion dollars in profits, but paid only about 60 billion euros in taxes abroad. According to the 2018 European Commission, in the EU, digital companies are otherwise taxed at an average rate of 9.5% and traditional, meaning those companies that are not digital and which do not provide these digital services, meaning traditional companies, at a rate of 23%, so there is a huge gap between these digitals and these traditional under quotes. It's not really just about illegal tax evasion, it's actually often about very legal forms that are due to the outdated principles of taxation based on special models from the beginning of the 20th century. That's why such legislation is extremely necessary and would be really useful. State law, therefore, according to some standard 20-century principles, means the right of the state to tax the profits of a company is linked to the physical presence of a company or branch in a particular country, and the generation of values and therefore we now care about those digital services, the generation of values is not physically limited. So Amazon, Apple, Facebook can have profits in Croatia, but they have neither a branch nor, so they are not registered in Croatia, so they do not pay profit tax. It is therefore very important and good that this proposed legislative proposal at least defines what a digital service is and is said to be a service which allows the consumer to create, process and store data in a digital form or access to them or two services that enables sharing or any other interaction with data in a digital format that is loaded or created by the consumer or other users of that service, and that is a very important definition, because it will just be the basis for taxing digital giants on digital services proposed by the Workers' Front, which sooner or later will guarantee coming into this assembly procedure, and then will probably be adopted when it comes from the other side of the Assembly. It's a good thing we have here a definition of what digital services are. So digital services are, for example, intermediation services such as Facebook or merger services so user or service means goods such as Amazon. This definition means that we need to come to the realization that digital services are also a profit quite high, especially digital giants, and that profit is not taxed in Croatia, but is taxed in France, Italy, Austria, Great Britain, Poland and other countries. In the initial proposal for such taxation, the Republic of Croatia has been positively determined, so I expect that after the rejection of the Worker's Front proposal that this tax will come to us at some point. So, the first thing we're going to tax there just briefly, so just based on this definition of digital services, but now more precisely in terms of defining generation, so these are advertising services directed at interface users. So we all know when we use Facebook that we're bombarded with commercials, but that's absolutely no use to us because we don't tax Facebook for this bombing with commercials that we're experiencing. So the other ones are services of intervention, of putting... to be made available to users for either the connection of users or their interactions, whether because of the exchange of goods or services between users. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] First it's Facebook again, second it'd be Amazon. And the third service is selling data on users of interfaces, so all these big companies are actually trading with our data, we have nothing of it again. Therefore, the revenues of small and developmental digital companies should not be taxed, but should certainly be taxed by the largest digital giants. Taxes should refer to companies with annual incomes at least across the board, or they could set it as a border; this is the European directive, set by more than EUR 750 million globally on annual incomes from taxable digital services with a source in Croatia, which we have set out from more than 1.1 million kuna. The tax rate in various countries is different, and in our proposal we put 7% of the gross income the company made during the tax period of one calendar year with digital services whose source is in Croatia. Here, because of the introduction of this tax, these are data that could be collected or collected from the tax administration, but we are sure that 150 million kuna could be generated annually. We are talking about the destruction of the Orjava in Požega due to a debt of 30 million kuna, so 150 million kuna would have been paid only if we had taxed the digital giants, but we did not do so because as the government's argument on this proposal came we will legally wait for everyone in the EU to introduce it and then we will adapt ourselves so nicely to European legislation. Without adapting to European legislation, Croatia is doing nothing. We hope that one day we will come up with some brave law that will at least follow, I do not know ten EU countries that have introduced this tax, rather than waiting to be adapted to European legislation. And here I welcome these types of laws where we might also be able to show that we are a little braver and that we have a little more courage to introduce something without being forced into it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54916	We move to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to a respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54917	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Respected secretary of state with an associate. So it's already said a lot about digital services, the digital content that we all depend on today, and we're all very consumers of them. I think that Dretar cited several examples, but all of the films you watch and even through IPTV from television content to books, video games and various other content are all bought or bought more or more online in different forms, some are exclusively digital, some are just ordering physical products or services. But the digital market has already existed for a very, very long time, and I think my colleague Dregar mentioned that cloud technologies have existed for ten years, and the EU has adopted this directive in 2019. means at least nine years late for the creation of the market and regulation of the same, and then we are still behind the directive for a good three years, so only in 2021. And in the middle of the year, we're discussing this law. We are so late and so late and the Union is late in regulating this market that some parts of the text of the directive, and then the law already becomes obsolete, are no longer used or have some subcategories. Therefore, in the regulation of the digital market, digital services should be much, much more proactive. It is a market that changes to the obvious, which can change completely in a few months literally, and we as a legislator are very reactive there. So we're not proactive, and that's not very good. It does not now, of course, go to the expense of Croatia alone, it goes to the account of the entire Union, but I draw your attention to the fact that most Member States do not have solutions in national legislation for this problem, most of them do. Some regulate it before, some even tax as my colleague used to say, but we don't. I'm not necessarily talking about taxation, but also about protecting consumers, and also about protecting those who receive these services, absolutely yes. I agree that we do not have to be so reactive as to wait for regulation from EU level. Sometimes it is good to be proactive and, of course, it is sometimes good to adapt things to our needs, the needs of small and medium-sized enterprises dealing with the provision of digital services or digital content, but also to protect our consumers. When we talk about digital services, digital content, the digital market in general, we can't talk to me about crypts, about cryptic ownership, it's the same thing that's been in the markets for a very long time, even some countries in South America are beginning to recognize crypts as a pay tool, so it's the same area that we have to work in. There is currently a debate in front of the European Council on a resolution that should regulate encryption, but there is still a great deal of uncertainty. I am pleased that we are taking part in this debate as Parliament and as government. But why do I even mention this to you? The market is changing very much, the market will change further, the market will radically change over the next five years, perhaps shorter. It's hard to actually predict time frames in such a rapidly changing market. And if we are reactive as a legislator, it will mean consumer uncertainty, uncertainty for those who provide services and potential loss of profit or loss of income that the state may have taxing and regulating certain markets. Therefore, my message from this payphone, although this law should absolutely be passed, is our obligation, in addition to harmonising our national legislation with the EU acquis, is that we must pay much more attention to this particular segment of the market because it is a market that will only grow. Now it's grown because it was well conditioned and pandemicd, but I think the pandemic has introduced some changes that are there to remain, and the development of the digital market, the provision of digital digital content services is definitely one of those areas. Therefore, I would like us to be more proactive in the future, to participate in what we are doing in EU-level discussions on the regulation and regulation of this segment of the market, but also bearing in mind that this is the future, that the changes have already come and that they are there to stay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54918	We have several replicas, a respected representative of Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54919	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I agree with you that Europe is a little late, however, it would draw attention to the fact that we are too late. The esteemed secretary knows that I have repeatedly called for us to be a little more proactive, and I didn't call it government than we do as IT's of our association, we need to be more active. If the EUR 5 billion industry has nothing to suggest the EU, then something is wrong. And there's our mistake, there's a mistake, and there's people who should make sure about it to do something to get everybody involved in making such laws so that we can be an example of Europe. Why? Because we're small and because we have to set conditions that suit us. They, if we accept the terms of those great ones, won't go well. And this is the law now, it's the law okay. However, we must keep in mind that we are proactive.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54920	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54921	I absolutely agree with my colleague Pavić. But you must have one other thing in mind. Some do not respond to the regulation of this market, some also answer that there is no taxation, that there are no clear rules or that they are different, etc. etc., it's obvious so. I'm sure that industry has a lot to say, but maybe they're comfortable with this current situation. What we have to worry about now is the protection and protection of our service provider, as well as the consumer, because we would be surprised how many IT companies there are in Croatia whose product is exported and are generally digital services such as or such and the supply of a finished digital product abroad. Therefore, we must think about them, protect them and the Croatian market, but also then on the Union market.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54922	Honorable representative of Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54923	Thank you. Dear Representative Hajdukovic, you encouraged me when you mentioned the currency crypt. I don't know how much you know, but there's a krypto currency ifivium that's actually based on using these famous hash functions as they're called which are like some kind of ciphers and keys that are the basis for something called Smart Contracts Smart Contracts and that's something I'm convinced that in our public procurement, it could certainly help, and the principle is very simple. You're some time ago what, but really still in Antica if you came with a piece of wood and this other one had the other one and only the one who was pasting because he could have gotten something because he had that kind of trust.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54924	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54925	Thank you, Comrade Matula. Smart contracts are another new moment on the market. So, as I was saying before, something that's come about relatively recently and that's developing rapidly, and it's unregulated, etc. etc. And there are many misunderstandings. You have countries that do business from adapting to new market conditions. For example, Slovenia has invested a lot of energy and effort and legislation to be a blockchain friendly state of the Union. A small Slovenia that can potentially earn a very, very, very large amount of money. Croatia is in a similar situation with multiple inhabitants and perhaps more IT expertise. Why don't we position ourselves, not now in a blockchain, but in something else in a similar way? And in the end, you have the same problem with the legislators, for example, in a resolution that is in front of the council that the definitions of the code of ownership are still unclear and broad and that the terms themselves are not yet clear, let alone the regulation of such a single market.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54926	Thank you. Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54927	Well, you said we were even late, so I was wrong when I said we were going to adapt to that legislation and that we're proactive, we're not, so we're even late, and that's even better this vision of everything. But we're not exactly honest with you or me, we're really proactive in one segment that we didn't mention here, which is digital nomads. So we are one of the few countries that has even introduced this legislative legislation that foreign citizens can live in the territory of Croatia and not pay Croatian taxes, use all of Croatia's infrastructure, but we are counting on them because we have a vision of rich programmers from the EU, Western countries and the United States who will rent expensive properties here and spend a lot of money, so we have, indeed, been proactive in this segment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54928	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54929	That fellow Peović, we are late, we are very late in a lot, but these measures, if we bring them in, which you were talking about, we bring them in in a verse and thoughtless way if you ask me. We don't have a clear vision of what we want, we don't have a clear vision of which direction we go in whatever segment you want, you want in the digital market, agriculture, industrial policy, whatever you want on the table, and we don't know what to do, we don't know what to do. In the modern world, you have to think 3-4 steps ahead. So one says small Slovenia, relatively small, small for the EU, in the world even smaller, has decided to put all its resources, so when we talk about the digital market in blockchain. Will that be worth it? I'm sure he will. We should also think like this, not bring in some half - measure, and then hope that it will result in some result, and in fact resulting in the abuse of many who are not holding on or who ultimately do not give the results that they should.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54930	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54931	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague, to mention the importance of the adoption of this law and certainly this directive is one of the components of the digital market development strategies for Europe. What I would like to point out is that, I think, in 2019, a white book has been published that actually defines the direction in which the whole of Europe should be developed and the system, which would mean for the development of the economy, small and medium entrepreneurship, which would mean for the development of municipal services, health systems, etc., so all the components of life, and that is what we are now actually trying to catch up with in view of both the pandemic and everything else is now an opportunity to really speed it up. And as far as taxation is concerned, here in June it was actually announced that G7 meets around a single tax system in this regard.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54932	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54933	Thank you very much, colleague. Yes, digital economies are generally at the top of the debate in the EU, so this is not a new moment just for us, so in the Union, the digital economy is a new economy, whatever the economy you want to call what term you use is something that dominates debates, strategies and reflections on Europe's future. However, where Croatia is actually a chance as a relatively small country and within the Union, and then in the global area, it is highly innovative, proactive. So if we're innovative, if we think in the long term and target resources in certain areas, we can do very well. You have a very large example, and I wanted to actually use this debate to highlight this very fact that I also draw attention to the direction in which I should think. If we think that way, my support will have it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54934	Now he will speak to the esteemed representative Zeljko Pavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54935	Thank you very much. When I was there in 1981 writing down the Faculty of Organization and Informatics, then everyone patted me on the shoulder and said good-bye, that's your future. Then after about eight, nine years of employment in Zagreb, so what are you going to do in Zagreb, so I said I'll deal with IT, wow, that's a great future for you. When my sons were a few years ago, my first son was enrolling in FER, writing in computerism, wow, that's great, that's the future, so the second son went to FER, which he wrote down, computerism, oh great, that's the future, and that's how it's been going for about 30 years, and I think we can all say that we're all actually living here in the past and the present and the future as far as it goes. And we have to be fair and correct and admit when it's good to say it's good. If I were the same in the morning when it was law, criminal law as a subject, I said what was good, I said to the minister that it was good that it was good and I turned my attention to what we should still do to make it perhaps better or to make it easier to solve in courts with which the minister later agreed. I also think, and I said it here that a good law like this is about digital records because we're all addicted to it. We're not aware of how dependent we are, we have no idea how dependent we really are on ebusiness, how dependent we are on digital, how dependent we are on digital records. A colleague talked, and among other things he mentioned IPTV, so, don't forget that we all have digital television, Earth television no longer exists, analogue signal no longer exists. There's a digital signal, and without a digital signal, there's no television. You must have a special reciver for digital television. Therefore, everything around us is digital and when we talk about the supply of digital content and digital services, I definitely need to regulate it to make it easier for all companies that deliver it to us as consumers and businesses as consumers and intermediaries who intercede between suppliers and recipients of these services. I don't want to talk about delivering software that's being delivered for a variety of pills, for computers, for phones of new versions, for cell phones, I don't want to talk about the data that are necessary to make things work, I don't want to talk about the software that's being delivered to our home appliances. You have home appliances that no longer work without software today, you have home appliances that are connected to the Internet whose malfunction detection can be done via the Internet and where you can use one part of the programs that are currently in use on these machines to skip software over the Internet and actually allow the user to continue using that apparatus. So everything around us is digital and we have to keep in mind that digital content and digital services are defined in the right way so that we can all be satisfied, without it we can't go on. There was talk of various concepts, of digital money, of having functions, of not mentioning in this context a digital signature that we also need. We know, and now that we're talking about our certificates, we're working with them, and if we had maybe different legislation, that we might have been a little bit more proactive when we passed the I.D. Act, we might have had a different connection to the election, so it's all connected. Ms. Secretary knows that I've spoken several times on the Information Committee that we should regulate things, so I'm told it's going to be regulated by the new law since some things weren't regulated but some of the laws that we've been working on on on on the Information Committee, but we see that everything is slowly in order and that we're actually coming to the goal that we need to come to, which is that we have this area arranged. I am sorry that our IT industry is not making more effort to participate in this together, since the industry that brings traffic has five billion euros, and I think that this is an industry that should be more active in making legislation and that should draw the attention of the legislator, look, we have problems here in this area, let us help us be better, better quality, that we have a greater profit and be competitive on the European market.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54936	We have a replica of the esteemed representative of the Okrosha.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54937	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Pavić. Here we are together through the Committee on Economy and here today we have had the opportunity to hear, so I've been a little bit identified in this debate of yours. And my mother was an IT graduate at the PMF, and I followed the same profession as I did on the FER, so I'm interested in your opinion, you talked about how the future was 40 years ago, how it was going to be the future in 40 years, but we definitely live in the Corona era in some new normal where we saw that the mass of these things, although forced to digitise, but we saw that it wasn't all so bad, that a lot of those services that we used in this new normal time actually made life easier for us through these digital services through these online meetings, work from home and here I have to say that a lot of my fellow graduate FER graduates have just improved their business from home. Do you think the future will bring us a series of laws like this?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54938	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54939	Well, yeah, I was doing the same thing in one part of the house, when I wasn't working from home, I got a crown, but I was working from home with the students, and I think what we've experienced is really saying that one renaissance of all the technological benefits we actually have. In fact, it's about the fact that the younger generations they don't really realize how advanced it is because they were born with it, but we who are older have a different approach to one different thinking, and we IT-Evcs who have had one structural programming approach, we have a little harder to accept in our programming facility an object approach a little different than they observe. It's normal for kids to take a cell phone in their hands to automatically know where, what it's like because it's actually normal for him, we don't need to learn that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54940	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54941	Thank you. Well, you're absolutely right when you say how wide the market is from a digital signal to digital services, software, etc. So everything goes online, everything happens in the virtual world. And that's why I think unification, regulation of this market should be in everyone's interest as soon as possible because here's how much of your own example, how many user accounts, different digital signatures, accreditation, etc. You have to have to access different services. What needs to be unified as soon as possible. And when we talk about the I.D. you mentioned, unfortunately the technology we've decided on, which is a physical chip reader, etc., has long been obsolete. So you have biometric passports, you have everything biometric, and we're building our I.D. on technology that's already in the shop of history. We don't think long-term, we don't think strategically.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54942	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54943	Yes, well when we talk about authentication systems, authentication is a small complex and demanding area so that if we are already talking about it and if we start from these certificates that you mentioned, we need to know that in Croatia we too have two state-owned companies that are a certification authority, which is actually a great cost and a great burden on users because when I have to do something in part about the Tax Administration or let's say something about FINA, I have to have certificates that have been issued either by FINA or the AKD. I don't know why we need to take care of it, I think it would be good to be one of the great ones who is the most experienced, in particular it's FINA having certificates, certification authority for what, 20 years now, and I think it would be wise to centralize it in a way that enables users to function more easily.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54944	Thank you. Now he will continue to speak to the respected representative Željko Pavic, but now finally on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54945	Well, here's what I'd just like to say, in conclusion, as a representative of the club, that I welcome the adoption of this law. You said in your presentation that there will be a directive in force from 1.1.2022, it will actually be a law that was passed under this directive, so I don't know what's going on with the other countries, whether the other states from 1.1. will go with it or if some of them are already on the move, if all of them will have that regulatory solution from that moment on. But I think we should say hello, and I said what we should say goodbye for. And I think that's how it should be passed all the laws, that we bring them sooner, that we have time for two, three, five, seven months to prepare ourselves for that law, and then there's no excuse why something doesn't work, there's no excuse why we don't deliver something in that format, why we don't give something in that format, why we haven't prepared something in that format, etc., etc. So this should be welcomed, it should be a practice, and in the future, that we are passing laws in advance, to say here to the companies of legal and physical persons, and there's a law for you, so get ready to know how you're going to function in the future. The SDP club will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54946	Now, finally, on behalf of the HSS and Workers' Front Club, a respected representative, Katarina Peovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54947	Here I have answered the invitation by one replica of my colleague Peric, and I think you said that there will be a European agreement or a conversation sometime around July 1st if I remember correctly that meeting will take place. It is true that the deadline for reaching an international consensus with the OECD from the end of 2020 has been extended by the middle of 2021, it has already been announced, that there will be a meeting, and it should actually be in June, it will obviously be in July and a new proposal for digital intensification will be presented. But the deadline for the implementation of this proposal, meaning it will also be extended since it is not in June but in July, but okay, the deadline for the implementation of this proposal is only 1 January 2023, so it has already been announced that it will only be 1 January 2023 in two years in which we will surely lose around 300 million kuna in this way, because I think that this is due to the fact that legislative proposals are actually only adopted when they come in the form of this European regulation that we implement. And I can agree it's not that far, I mean 2023. January 1st is not so far, but it is not only tomorrow, not only yesterday, but still not our initiative, but we still accept only this European and international framework. We could be among those countries that implemented at national level that tax means France, Italy, Austria, Great Britain, etc. So we could be among these countries, and as Pavic said, things change very quickly. So it seems to us that forever will be the same rules, the same conditions, but this legislation has tried to capture this current digital reality with tax reforms and it will change. So nothing is permanent, and now we're not going to pass some tax laws that will be there forever so we're losing safe time that we're wasting some money that could have been spent usefully. I remind you that Croatia has one of the slowest internets in Croatia, so this legislation, this tax could be used to improve telecommunications infrastructure so that we may have a faster Internet. In any case, the objective of legislation in this segment of digital services should be to ensure, especially for us, a more balanced taxation of small and large digital companies. We will not have a big digital giant in Croatia I suppose, but we have digital companies that have to balance this taxation and admit that not only in Croatia but in Europe and in the world the great digital giants really enjoyed huge tax benefits. And that and... their big climb. In addition, it would be particularly important for us to introduce more even taxation of "traditional companies" and these digital companies by this type of legislation because it has been claimed that there are huge tax differences between one and the other. Well, now I don't have any longer, just final means in the name of the HSS and RF club, I think I can say that we don't have a problem with this proposal of the law on certain aspects of the digital content and digital services contract, but we would like there to be also the will and desire on this side to welcome some proposals on the other hand because I don't think that in this type of legislation we don't have too many differences, to be guided by some similar principles, and that we should really say that and at the previous point, stop with this practice that I mean, in Croatian politics, is practically accepted as normative and normal, which is that by ruling we don't accept any law of opposition, not a single draft law of opposition. So this practice must begin if nothing else is questioned and criticised, if it does not already overcome what I hope will be the case. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-01-0.u54948	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, and we'll vote on it when the conditions are met. We will finish today's work, continue tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. and the first item will be the Amendment Law and the Supplements of the Open Investment Funds Act with a public offering. Thank you very much, and I want a nice afternoon. SESSION Interrupted at 3:30 p.m.
