ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u57747	We are now going to the 4th debate, Club of Representatives of the Most, will speak dear colleague Marin Miletic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u57748	Dear President HS, Mr. Jandrokovic, Mr. Bukarica, dear colleagues and colleagues. Violence against women is a National Day of Combating Violence against Women, it is marked in memory of a serious crime that took place in 1999 when at the hearing during a divorce case at the Municipal Civil Court in Zagreb, a man killed his wife, judge and lawyer, and was severely wounded by a notary. This year, the day is also marked as a sign of amendments to the Penal Code that should enable more effective punishment for abusers. In 7 months, according to the prosecutor for gender equality, it is particularly worrying that the number of rapes is increasing. In the pandemic year of the crime, and we know that these are the most severe crimes, the crime of family violence has increased by 40% and most of these crimes are victims of women. And now I want to say something like a man. There's nothing more miserable in this world than when a man raises his hand to a woman, there's nothing more pathetic than a man who commits any kind of violence against a woman, there's not a single reason in this universe to justify any violence against a man. The poorest, miserable men in the universe, young men and husbands are the ones who raise their hand to a girl or to a woman. There's nothing more disgusting, there's nothing more sleazy, there's nothing more judgmental than a violent man. A violent man has betrayed the identity of a man, a violent man has betrayed everything a man should be and everything is not what a man could be. Violence against women is present in all societies, and a particular problem is a low number of reports of violence against women. The reason is much, fear of the perpetrators, too long trials still low sentences for the perpetrators, mistrust in the competent institutions and fear that no one will believe them, fear that they will be blamed for the surviving experience, guilt and responsibility in most cases the perpetrators are victims of a known or close person, making it difficult to make a decision to report violence. All of these reasons contribute to the fact that sexual violence is listed in the least reported crimes with the greatest proportion of dark numbers. In one reported rape, there are as many as 15 or 20 unreported cases of rape, while in the case of domestic violence, 10 unreported cases occur. And I will finish, the Jewish Talmud writes, the woman is made of the ribs of the husband, not of his foot to tread upon it. Not from his head, to rule by it, but from his side to be equal, under his hand to be protected, beside the heart to be loved.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u57814	Let's move on, there's now a respected colleague, Ivana Kekin, on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u57815	Honorable chairman, respected MPs and MPs. We're missing everything, we used to have everything, now we've got nothing. We used to have specialists, and now the disaster is getting worse and worse. Thus, in one of the numerous contributions to the ever weaker and unreachable health care on the islands, one Bračanka speaks. The second adds, it's very unfortunate that there are no gynecologists or pediatricians, they're actually the most important ones here for children and young moms. About the situation in Brač, media reported repeatedly this summer, a nurse in the gynaecological clinic quit, and the question is how long a 70-year-old gynecologist will be able to care for over 4,000 patients who need primary gynological health care. Soon it will run out of pediatricians and radiologists, and it is similar sometimes to a worse situation on other islands. Mljet was available this summer only one doctor for all domestics, for all tourists in all shifts. The island with 16,000 inhabitants in the next five years is threatened with the disintegration of the entire system of specialist hospitals. The pension consists of physicists, interns, psychiatrists, microbiologists and two doctors of family medicine. They're also retired by engineers from a medical biochemical laboratory who's being threatened by closure. There is only one pediatrician working on the entire island, under normal weekends for every suspicious temperature goes to Dubrovnik. Of course, the primary health care of women as well as the mentioned Brac is a special problem. There is a gynecologist on the entire island who also takes care of patients on Peljesac, so over 10,000 women in the area from Vela Luka to Stone. Although hundreds of children are born in that area, women who find birth on the island of emergency cars are referred to the nearest General Hospital of Dubrovnik, which is 200 km away. With them in the car seat of the midwives, although by law it should not and, if necessary, give birth in transit on the way to Dubrovnik. Ms. Slavika Arsenovic, who really deserves to be mentioned by her name, is the real hero of this story. Almost 50 years of giving birth to women on ships, in ambulances, in cars and on speedboats, in helicopters, giving birth every day and night is always ready, and you never guess on official alert. But Slavica is also on the verge of retirement, and in which Korčulanka and Peljeshanka will then be trusted, the answers do not provide answers. They say women from Korčula similar to those from Brač seem to care, and I bet they feel the same way both Mlječanka and Lastovljanka and Hvarka and women from most of our islands. The islanders and islanders stand out nothing less than other citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia for health insurance, and it turns out that when it comes to their health, citizens of the second order are being given a far worse and more drastically unreachable service. On the other hand, the ministry does not do anything to find a way to motivate an expert medical staff to work on islands. It all comes down to the efforts of the local community. Zorno was told by a family doctor from Brač who asked if a doctor, a doctor who came to the island to do secured accommodation, answered, so what is there for us is no room for tourists, let alone for doctors. The census is under way, we all suspect that the results in many areas, especially as far as demographics are concerned, will be truly devastating. We're all smaller, we're getting older, fewer children are being born. They come up with strategies, they're called demographic experts, they make plans. Logically, quality and affordable healthcare is one of the basic preconditions for family creation and expansion, quite logically as it seems logical to be ruling, and especially some more prominent among them as president of the HDZ Club, the health minister and the island's own island health infrastructure and services. So how is it possible that the situation hasn't changed for years for better than just worse? Maybe just to say it, the island girls don't care. Today is National Day against Violence Against Women and it is time as a society to realize that it is not possible to have gynological examinations or births on the island institutional violence against women and what like all forms of violence against women and girls must stop.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u57869	Honorable MPs and MPs, good morning. Before the beginning of our regular work, I would like to remind you that the decision of the HS on 22 September was declared the National Day against Violence against Women. We mark it as a memory of a murder that took place on September 22, 1999. when he killed his wife Gordana Orašić and her lawyer, Hajr Prohić, and Judge Ljiljana Hvalec, at the hearing during the divorce proceedings at the Zagreb Municipal Court, and wounded her notary Stanko Cvetkovic. On this day we remember all other women who have violently lost their lives. By marking this day, we want to further sensitise the public and point to this social problem and send a clear message of zero tolerance to violence and the importance of protecting victims and sanctioning violent persons. A particular emphasis should be placed on the importance of recognising and reporting violence as a highly unacceptable form of social behavior that violates fundamental human rights and freedoms, as well as the prevention of any form of violence including that of a peer who starts already at school age. The problem of violence is around the world, so we need to make additional efforts to educate the public about the need for prevention through education, the protection of victims and the punishment of perpetrators. HS adopted a series of regulations and international acts related to domestic violence and violence against women who were just heading towards maximum protection of victims. In addition to legislative protection as a society, we all need to push for further promotion of equality between women and men in all areas of life. Women make our society better, and therefore we express our respect and gratitude for creating more tolerance, solidarity and justice in Croatia. In symbol of the National Day of Combating Violence Against Women, I ask you to honor all women with a moment of silence with the victims of violence. - A minute of silence. - May they have eternal glory and thank them. - We are now moving on to our regular work, as always on Wednesdays to present the position of club representatives, the first is the Club of Representatives of HDZ, respected colleague Ljubica Maksimchuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u57870	Speaker turned on afterwards./... HS's distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Today I'm going to talk about a topic that the president of HS said in the introduction, but about a subject that most colleagues and colleagues will certainly be talking about today, a topic that deserves our attention all the days of the year, but today is an opportunity to say it much louder. The national day of fighting violence against women is marked on September 22, 1999. when three women were killed in the municipal court in Zagreb during the divorce case, and a court worker was badly wounded. Violence between women and girls is one of the most widespread violations of human rights in today's world, which is largely unpunished and undeclared, which is due to shame, stigma, silence or what the environment will say. Unfortunately, in Croatia, violence against women is especially the most physically occurring in the family community, the place that should be the hottest and safest environment. The perpetrators are usually married or out - of - wedlock husband or ex - husband. The fact is that violence is present in all environments and in all countries, we are only different from how much we are as a society or a state willing to protect our citizens or their rights and freedoms. This government is determined in the fight against grey types of violence, there is a strong political will and significant progress has been made in the last few years by adopting and applying the Law on Protection against Family Violence, Criminal Law, the National Strategy on the Protection of Family Violence, the Protocol on the Treatment of Sexual Violence. At the end of last year, six new shelters were established in the counties that were without them, currently in the Republic of Croatia we have 25 shelters or safe houses. A series of projects and programmes are being implemented, I will only list some implemented by the Ministry of Labour, Pension System, Family and Social Policy, or in cooperation with some other ministry or civil associations. The project "Stop Violence Against Women and Family, The Project "For Violence There is No Justification", through the National Media Campaign under the slogan "Empathy Now" raises awareness of this important problem. It is aimed at strengthening the education of experts, promoting inter-resorship communication, and at the 7th session of HS, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code and the Law on Protection against Family Violence was passed. A great help and cooperation, of course, is a civil sector, and without them all this would not be possible. And there are the media who are giving their great pain in the fight against this phenomenon. And finally, but no less important are education, education and prevention from the youngest days to raise and educate young people to have zero tolerance to violence. We are aware that the fight against violence is a lasting and long-term process, a process in which we must all engage, cooperate, raise our voice in the fight against violence. It's been 22 years since the gruesome murder in the municipal court, that crime permanently obliges us to be louder, but it obliges us to leave younger generations with a fairer and more tolerated society. I therefore invite you colleagues and colleagues to build this more tolerated society here today from the Croatian Parliament and all the days of the year, but not only on September 22nd. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u57955	Now, as the sixth debate, we're going to listen to an esteemed colleague of Ante Prkačina on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u57956	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Greetings to all colleagues and colleagues who spoke very seriously about violence against women, but I will talk about another violence, violence against logic and common sense, violence against logic, common sense and historical facts. I will talk first about the current census, which is purely violence against logic and common sense, and then on this 18 years ago, on the contract signed by Prime Minister Racan with the Serbian Orthodox Church. I actually wanted to talk about something else, I wanted to talk about marginalising or underestimating HS, so I'm experiencing the fact that last week in an official state visit to the Republic of Croatia was the president of us neighbouring partially friendly Montenegro, partly in the part of Mile Djukanovic, and I think that this HS should have some kind of report that we know at least indicatively what was discussed with Mr Djukanovic because there are people here who know a little bit about Montenegro, war and events, so maybe we could open up a debate and give some advice and suggestions because Montenegro is on the verge of war, don't be fooled by stories. The situation is the same as it was in the '90s and '91s, and this war and that problem are easily spilled into neighbouring BiH. Do you see that the changed rhetoric of Milorad Dodik, Milorad Dodik, has recently become a bahathate, Milorad Dodik is not boastless, unlike Bosnian-Muslim leaders who are often boasted, with no cover of Milorad Dodik is a completely different kind of politician. So, if there is no timely and real reaction on the issue of Montenegro, the war is to be expected. In Montenegro, the situation is so, I would like to talk to Mr Djukanovic to tell me his opinion, but I think there is no compromise between whites and greens, that's what that Serbian politician 902 in Zagreb Stojanovic told us Croatians to investigate yours or ours, so here's how this investigation ended. In Montenegro, the state of the investigation is yours or ours. Expecting an international community reaction in the form of NATO intervention, the force is now unrealistic and unserious. This is where the Croatian State must react. We can do a great thing with a wise policy without any risk to relax the situation in Montenegro. It is clear to all of us in this House that it is an inspiration, that it is the organizer, that whoever conducts this evil politically in Montenegro is the Serbian Orthodox Church. We must put out of force immediately to declare that treasonous ludicrous contract signed by Racan, after which we should immediately suspend the census because the census of the population is such that it pleases the Serbian Orthodox Church. I have plenty of time to talk about something I haven't talked about before. When you mention the Croatian Orthodox Church, it becomes cherry as if someone had included you in the electricity. Immediately, a certain Savo Strbac appeared and similar and talked about the Ustasha state and the Croatian Orthodox Church for Pavelic. Gentlemen, the foundation for the creation of the Croatian Orthodox Church is rule 38. The Ecumenical Assembly of 678. The basis for the creation of the Croatian Orthodox Church is not NDH but is the foundation of more than 13 centuries in history. Will we stop drinking water and breathe air because it's inhaled for NDH? That's very unserious. I will now explain briefly to you the difference between the established Croatian Orthodox Church in '42. and the Serbian Orthodox Church in 1922. The Croatian Orthodox Church, Pavelic's Orthodox Church, was registered within three months because it was built on the canon of Orthodoxism, and the Serbian Orthodox Church in the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians won Tomos only after two years. You know why? Because it wasn't made according to the canon of Orthodoxism. Aleksandar Karadjordjevic, with a decree, founded the Serbian Orthodox Church of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, had he been correct, he would have founded the Orthodox Church of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, but he had already done so by wanting to make Serbs and Greater Serbia out of all of us. And finally, Tomos, who only received the Serbian Orthodox Church in 19.2.1922, actually speaks the most against the Serbian in this Tomos, is evident that property in Croatia around which everything revolves not to belongs to the Serbian Orthodox Church. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you very much, Mr. President. I promised for the prime minister a document that I put together, a problem that the Serbian Orthodox Church made here,
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u57957	Thank you. Now you're abusing the situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u57958	I want to give him some knowledge.../Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u57959	Go ahead, you forgot your mask. But all I do is stick to the line. We are going to the 5th debate on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, respected colleague Dragana Jeckov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u58024	I thank the esteemed president of HS, colleagues and colleagues. As of a few days ago, a very important piece of information was almost missed in our media area. I dare say, of historical importance, and surely of influence on all of us. This information is particularly important regarding today's National Day against Violence Against Women, which my colleagues and colleagues have already presented and explained. The reasons why this national day is being marked right now. In fact, on the day that we became an EU Member State, among other things, we accepted its rich legal gain, and one of the most important and basic acts that binds us, is certainly the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, which was redefined several days ago in its article. 38. Excuse me, 83. This is an article, namely, which defines particularly serious crime with cross-border elements, which requires joint control at EU level. That's the one. 83 defines particularly serious crime, which is terrorism, human trafficking and sexual exploitation of women and children, illegal drug and arms trafficking, money laundering, corruption and other forms of organised crime, and since a few days ago, particularly serious crime is gender-related violence. We already know that this violence is directed at a person because of her sex or is disproportionately affecting a person’s sex. In doing so, we distinguish physical, economic, sexual, psychological violence, or their combinations. It is happening, therefore, that violent people constantly come up with new ways of affecting victims, for example, by breaking into videoconferencing a relatively new form of harassment, or violence on the Internet is just the continuation of the violence that exists in the real world. In domestically conditioned violence, Europarliamentaries also included the depriving of safe and legal abortion and called for European Court of Human Rights rulings on several occasions that restrictive laws on abortion and the absence of the provision of that service violate women's human rights. Also, when an intimate partner commits violence against a partner, it will also be considered as a criminal offence of gender-related violence as well as any violence to which the child testifies to the traumas left on the child. Unfortunately, individuals become aware of the seriousness of violence against women only when such things are shown to them by figures, so the estimated annual social costs of gender-produced violence reach 290 billion euros and exceed the annual costs of all the other serious crimes of art. 83. To be even more plastic, it is 12 times bigger, almost 12 times the cost Croatia plans to get for, from the Development and Recovery Fund in the coming years. This figure is, in fact, so high because these women suffer financial burdens because they do not work because they have costs in court, they suffer and the health system, and as we have the opportunity to hear, suffer and all taxpayers in the EU. For a good part of these problems, the lawyer for gender equality also drew attention, and we end up accepting the problem of violence against women as a fact that exists, we do not turn our head, if for nothing else, then because of the amount I mentioned, whose figure is almost incredible, 290 billion euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u58079	Now it's the eighth, for now, final debate, respected colleague Anka Mrak Taritash on behalf of the Center and Voice Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u58080	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, today all the speakers have dedicated something, which is the National Day against Violence against Women and the President of the Croatian Parliament has spoken, we have been a minute of silence, we have all shown our concern, we have shown facts and now we come to that key issue. Differences between form and content? We've satisfied the form, we've brought the Istanbul Convention, the form is satisfied, but we're coming up with content. It's time we all wondered together what this storm we're living in, what the crown will cause and what it's caused in our families. As we speak here how many women suffer their own violence against themselves, which physically, which verbally. So these are the questions that we all need to ask ourselves together, but we all need to ask ourselves how many times in life we have met and seen both physical violence and verbal violence against women, whether we have reacted or turned our heads. Every time we turn our heads from such a fact, every time we close our eyes on it, every time we hear that in our apartment next door to us is noise, we need to ask ourselves what we need to do to change society. None of us have a magic wand and it would be naive of each of us to expect tomorrow to be something different, it wouldn't be different, but we live in 2021 and we're opening topics that I was sure we would never open to the topics that were meant and closed in our society. So, I think both parliamentary representatives and clubs should think differently and I think we should also oppose our thoughts, our thoughts, but what I'm sure of is that we need to take great, strong care of our consequences. So the Constitutional Court has made a decision that the law that speaks of the right to abortion should be regulated and should be passed. This assembly has been avoiding it for a while. This assembly is actually done in a certain way by glazing does not do its job and we need to clearly talk about it and clearly say it is not an abortion way of preventing pregnancy, not one of us is going to advocate it, but it will advocate women's rights. The rights of women to decide about themselves, the rights of women who don't do it because they will, they don't do it from the whim, but they need to see why it even happens. A prevention that is important, the prevention that is most important at the earliest age, and we come up with a topic that we also watch and don't want to talk about, which is civic education. Civil education is also one of the things that can in some ways prevent violence among women. There was one study among girls, girls in high school about violence, and then in a large number of these girls, or girls, they said that the fact that a boy makes them so it doesn't matter, so it all has to do. What history has taught us about the importance of education, education comes from the earliest age of life, it comes from kindergarten, it comes from elementary school, it comes from high school. And so what we can do with our actions as parliamentary representatives, which is to insist on such things, not only when it's day, but then dedicate all of our speech to it, but always, constantly, and trust me, it all starts from the earliest age of life. So, about the obligation to introduce civil education where it's clear there's no tolerance to any violence, there's not what the young girls said so the boy makes me so it doesn't matter, it all has to do and then at one point it's all too late. It's the task of all of us not to be too late. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u58141	We are going to a second debate on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club, a respected counterpart, Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u58142	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, today I wanted to talk about another topic, however, given that the National Day of Combating Violence against Women is of course something to say about it. Croatia, which is known to everyone in April 2018, adopted a famous Istanbul Convention. The day marked the SDP applause for HDZ and HDZ to SDP, let's not forget that. 110 representatives mostly of these parties, of course, and the SDSS clapped together. And then for months, Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic assured us that the famous Istanbul Convention would reduce domestic violence, violence against women in our country. But he lied, it didn't even shrink. So, violence against women, domestic violence is more. That's a lie. What I believe is that all those watching this assembly session know that the human race is divided into two sexes, female and male. We have men and women, right? But it is not divided into two generations because the stork is something fluid, something that is subject to change whenever you think of it, on the hourly, minutely, daily basis, and the Istanbul Convention is talking about it, and it does not talk about protecting women from violence. The women are our mothers, sisters, grandmothers, daughters and without them we cannot and are precious to us and I will tell the most precious, but what Andrej Plenkovic and his government wrote about the Istanbul Convention, and more specifically that interpretative statement to the famous one that no one has ever read or read, and in it it wrote that the provisions relating to gender ideology will not apply to Croatian law. So he admitted that there were gender ideology in the Istanbul Convention. You all voted for that interpretation statement and the Istanbul Convention. No birth ideologies. No, as homosexuals don't foster children, there's no gender ideology like it never happened that there's no father and mother's name on the testimonies anymore, no birth ideologies. And the Istanbul Convention does not cost Croatian citizens, and I am interested in whose expenses today in the West, and that is to say, a colleague from GREVIA came to Zagreb. How much money we, how many hundreds of millions of kunas per year give to this famous GREVIU and how much tomasevic and Plenkovic's organizations protecting women from violence, and in fact the worst parasites of Croatian society because they suck the blood out of Croatian taxpayers, and they didn't prevent any cases of violence. And just as we had Istanbul when Plenkovic over his knee broke the Croatian people and Croatian politics and made that turning point in Croatian politics now tries to do the same thing with the EUR and says we will introduce EUR-o no matter what, we will not ask the people at the referendum as it was ordered, his order by Minister Kuščević did what he did. Once again, just so someone doesn't get it wrong, Croatian sovereigns realize that violence against women is a problem, but we had to settle it with Croatian laws. Well, my SDPs and the Wetlands would have told you in Sibenik, but I would have concluded in one different tone because today I wanted to talk about my Sibenik. [[Applause.]] Yes, about my Sibenik and this way I will congratulate all my Sibenik and Sibenik days of pride and glory marking the September war when heroes, the Sibenik heroes defended the city of Sibenik and the state of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u58264	We are going to have a third debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Ivana Posavec Krivec, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u58265	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, first and foremost on behalf of the SDP, I would like to thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, for reminding the Croatian public today that today is the 22nd day of the National Day of Combating Violence against Women. And on behalf of women, women from the SDP Club and men from the SDP Club, I would like to remind loudly of 3 names, Gordana Orašić, Hair Prohić and Ljiljana Slavec, these are women who will enter Croatian history because they are women who are violently killed in court and during an ordinary divorce case. These are women whose fate, unfortunately, is shared by many other women in Croatia, but we may not know the names of these women, perhaps we cannot remember these women here today and we cannot count them, but we must know at all times that today we are dedicated to all these women to whom the bullies have taken life. Therefore, as you said to the president, marking the National Day of Combating Violence against Women must have the aim of raising awareness and sensitising society to the problem of violence against women, and we must send a clear message of zero tolerance to all forms of violence against women. I believe that we are doing this together, I believe that here in the highest Croatian home we are doing it by passing laws that should protect every resident and resident of the Republic of Croatia, so we have also done it by adopting the Istanbul Convention. It would be good if everyone who sits here in parliament if we read anything else with an understanding of what is said in the Istanbul Convention. In Croatia, violence against women occurs most often in the family community, in the safest environment. Most of the victims of domestic violence are female, and the perpetrators of domestic violence are known persons, please keep this in mind always, people are famous, married or out-of-marriage husband or ex-husband of the victim's partner. The vast majority of abused women are exposed to various forms of violence that lasts for many years. What we most often see with our eye is physical violence, most often it's the last stage of violence against a woman, and I repeat the eye visible when a woman is in bruises, when she has to contact her doctor for health care. However, psychological harassment often precedes this, often precedes threats and often sexual abuse. These women have been silent for years. These women, as well as their children, often have consequences, and the consequences can be psychological, physical, economic, or social. This violence and these consequences are individual, depending on the social environment, the environment in which these women and families are located. And let us not forget that domestic violence rarely occurs in just one form, in the form of physical violence, so the consequences often occur only with one intensity. And let us not forget that domestic violence occurs in all social classes, that it occurs at all times, in girls, in women of middle age, but also in women of older age. It depends neither on the degree of education of a woman, it does not depend unfortunately on the degree of education of a bully. And that is why it is good that we have brought about amendments to the Penal Code, but it would be good to agree in Croatia and to introduce civic education, that from a small age and an early age we are all learning that violence cannot be tolerated in this developed society, that we are all fighting each other against every form of violence. And that's why I'm calling you colleagues and colleagues. There's never been another woman in HS, so let's be loud and let's help all the abused women in the future to keep them as little as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59203	I thank everyone who participated in the debate today, and now we're moving on to our agenda. First item, - Final proposal of the Electricity Market Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 146. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution and the Art. in relation to Art. 172. 190. The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. I would now ask the motionary's representative to give an additional explanation of the final bill. With us is Secretary of State Ivo Milatić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59204	President-in-Office HS, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. The final proposal of the Electricity Market Act is one of the fundamental laws of the energy sector aimed at strengthening market relations and creating a common European energy market and an energy union of Member States and preparing the market for the challenge of energy transition and use of clean and renewable energy, electricity, and exiting from inefficient electricity generation from fossil fuels. Member States' joint efforts to accelerate energy transition towards renewable energy as one of the most powerful weapons in the fight against climate change have also resulted in a new Directive 944 of 2019. on the internal electricity market. This final proposal regulates relations on the electricity market to ensure continuous and stable supply of renewable energy while strengthening the role of customers, its active participation in the market, as well as reducing energy poverty and imports of energy to the Republic of Croatia. The law prescribes rules for the production, transfer, distribution, supply and storage of electricity, together with aspects of consumer protection in order to create integrated, competitive, flexible, fair and transparent electricity markets in the EU oriented to consumers. This law also regulates the new relations of market participants and enables technological progress in terms of the introduction of digital platforms and numerical management of systems. The law recognises new energy activities and lays down new rules and obligations of the system operator on whose clear, transparent and efficient management rests the development of the power grid and the security of electricity supply. The distributed production or production facilities connected to the distribution system are becoming the backbone of further development, etc. Smart nets. Together with this, existing consumer rights are strengthened and new ones are introduced, such as the right to free choice of suppliers and the restriction of charges for change and interruption unless the contracts with mandatory duration and fixed prices are terminated before their expiry, such as the right to access at least one of the reference tools that meet certain requirements of reliability, the right to join the energy community of citizens, with the full retention of the rights of customers, including the right to leave the Community without penalties, the right to contract with dynamic price fixing, and the right to provide all information in benefits and included risks, the right to an aggregate agreement independent of the supply of electricity, the right to production, consumption, storage and the sale of electricity individually or through the aggregater, the right to install a smart number, on a decision to also consider the cost-efficient, energy or threatened customers' right to target protection. These are the rights of customers in the Republic of Croatia to equalise themselves with those that exist in other EU countries. In accordance with the law, suppliers will have to prepare a free tool that will make it available to compare the prices of services on the market so that final customers can choose for them the most favourable option. The final customers are given better information and control of the electricity bill, the calculation must be clear, accurate, summarised and presented in such a way as to allow for an easy comparison. The new obligations provided by suppliers also help identify vulnerable energy poor customers that provide assistance and thus affect the reduction of energy poverty. One of the new institutes introduced by the law is the aggregate as an energy entity and aggregate as an energy activity, creating new more dynamic market relations. It is the aggregater that will enable its market service to coordinate and distribute on a wider platform, to coordinate production with consumption through the establishment of so-called "the" platform. virtual networks. The law lays down transparent rules granting roles and responsibilities to all market participants and lays down rules for the exchange of data between all market participants, which is crucial for the efficient operation of the aggregaters. Providers and aggregates will bring new services to the market and will be responsible for the management of consumption and ensure that the compensation for their work reflects the benefits of spending management. In the basic single physical sense, the exchange of electricity will take place within the energy community of citizens. They will, through their legal and non-profit personality under the control of the owner of the share or members whose relations are based on voluntary and open participation, be able to participate in the production, distribution, supply, consumption and services of electricity efficiency or charging services for electric vehicles or provide other energy services to all members and owners of the share. Since in the case of energy communities, citizens are on the exchange of energy within the community, it is limited at the level of low voltage or transformer cells and counted at higher voltage. It should be pointed out that under the conditions of distributed production, these participants, or energy community aggregaters, create conditions for the production of electricity to be found on the market and consume the nearest place of production and encourage the creation of virtual power grids. An important paper to be edited by this Bill is the implementation of a public tender for the issue of energy approval, for the construction of electricity plant products or heat or electricity storage by the Ministry, and in accordance with objective transparent and non-discriminatory criteria. Energy approvals are therefore extended to power storage facilities and are accordingly introduced into the electricity storage activity which has not been in the Law so far, which is very important for the energy transition. Energy approval becomes an initial document for the development of a project of production and storage of electricity, in a spatially planned, environmentally acceptable and electro-energy way. The law stresses the importance of the transmission and distribution system operator, for the stability of work and development of systems and networks, so the operators of these two systems are responsible for ensuring the long-term capacity of the system to meet the requirements for the transmission and distribution of electricity including the cost-effective integration of new power generation plants, in particular those producing electricity from renewable sources. The transmission and distribution system operators shall continue to be independent in their work and in terms of their legal form, organisation and decision-making, and in this regard certain requirements shall be strengthened. In the case of an operator of the HoPS transmission system, since the infrastructure link is with other markets and transmission system operators, the request of the Directive of 2019 has been explicitly and amended in relation to the same in the 2009 Directive and the company must be harmonised in the form of a company. In doing so, no repercussion shall have the same decision on ownership rights. Compared to the proposal of the Electricity Market Act in the first reading in the draft final proposal of the law, we have made the following changes, the area of electricity infrastructure is arranged, or the setting of concessions for such a maritime good infrastructure, we have arranged the operation of the railway infrastructure management, we have arranged the recuperative braking as a source of energy and a way to restore the same energy to a network of up to and including 6 megawatts. A detailed procedure of the expressions of the optimal... the connection for connection to the transmission or distribution network, active customers at the calculated point where the power storage facility is connected are not subject to double fees, we have done so clearly because then the meaning of the storage is lost if there is a double charge, meaning input, output, then the practical storage would be expensive, and from that we would have no use in the sense that the network is kept and maintained through storage. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It shall be determined that the electricity producer authorised at the calculation point of the production plant is obliged to pay a tariff for the use of the power grid which he surrenders to the transmission or distribution network in accordance with the methodology for determining the amount of tariff items for the transmission or distribution of electricity. The deadline shall be extended from 60 to 90 days from the date of entry into force, the law for the submission of applications for expression of interest in the implementation of a public tender for the issue of energy authorisation in accordance with Article. 17th century 2 of this Law and, this, we also, in the process of issuing energy approvals, envisaged that energy approval for hydropower plants would be worth 7 years, and that the use of the permit must take place at 10 years, at the latest in 10 years, which is the difference of those 5+2, 7 because it is clear that the overinvestments that take too long to reach some legal limit. Dear parliamentary representatives, aware of the importance and roles of this Law on Energy Transition and Economic Development of the Republic of Croatia, we are convinced that the same will contribute to households and entrepreneurs after adoption of this esteemed House, that they themselves produce increasingly renewable electricity and solar and other renewable sources, while also reducing their cost of life and business. Construction and development of energy infrastructures and energy plants under this Act will contribute to the classification of the Republic of Croatia at the very top of the energy independent countries of Europe when it comes to electricity production, especially those that are renewable. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59205	Thank you, Secretary of State. We have a few replicas. First up, dear colleague Kirin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59206	Dear President, Your Honor, this Law seeks to ensure acceptable and transparent energy prices and costs for final customers. A high degree of security of supply and a smooth transition to a sustainable energy system with a low level or carbon emissions. The following Articles 11 and 45. This Law, will the compensation for energy poor and threatened customers in accordance with their social status, regardless of the price of electricity, always remain identical or, of course, if there is no improvement in their social status? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59207	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59208	Thank you for your question. It is clear that the cost-refunding fee is socially at risk, i.e. energy poverty will grow accordingly, if the price and energy of the same citizen cannot pay. So there's no dilemma there, she's setting up a system to know what is the minimum consumption of electricity that a household can spend has to be compensated from the competent budget whether it's a state-owned one, in principle, because it's a 3 June fee collected to a special account in the Treasury, and it's managed by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, to simply provide a sufficient amount of money that's an absolute idea of this law and there's no obstacle to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59209	Second replica of my colleague Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59210	Thank you, Your Honor. The Honorable Secretary of State has put emphasis on the energy community of citizens in law in order to make more efficient use and storage of normal and production of electricity itself, I would like to know whether HEP and the ministry will have certain funds, i.e. certain, a certain type of financial investment in the energy network related to the aid to these communities, but we also see a great emphasis on selling electric vehicles, and that will be used exclusively for electric vehicles, so I'm interested in how we stand with the chargers themselves because, for the sake of the decarbonisation plan, we expect a huge increase in the sales of electric vehicles themselves, as well as the HEP itself, as well as the ministry invests in the network itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59211	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59212	Thank you. Clearly, I did not mention in the opening speech e-mobility, but clearly this law also touches that. As far as the charger's concerned is concerned, there is now a public debate on the Alternative Infrastructure Act that the Ministry of Transport has announced. He detailedly resolves that part of how it will go, clearly with us as a coordinating body of the Ministry of Economy. So we also in the National Recovery Plan in the Fund, in the financial perspective of the new one, provided significant funds to co-finance the construction of the charging facility. We are aware that this part should be very much the focus of our interest right now. That the chargers appear as many as possible and systematically and organised so that it means that after this law and the Law on Renewable Energy, our focus will certainly be on the charge shops and co-financing for this process to take place.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59213	Comrade Ivanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59214	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, today we are discussing the final proposal of the Electricity Market Act, a topic that interests all the public. Of course, I welcome the provisions of the laws that go towards the fact that renewable energy sources have to be what we want by 2030, until 2050. But this topic is certainly about a wider audience that may not know so much about legislation we always wonder about when it comes to electricity prices, where is Croatia when it comes to the map of Europe, what is the price paid by the citizens of Croatia when it comes to households and, of course, the economy at EU level?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59215	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59216	Thank you for your question. When it comes to rank prices in Croatia, when we talk about households, it means from what you can see on Eurostat, we have data for 33 European countries, meaning 27 in the EU and others. We're in 26 places per cheap spot practically. So we're in the very end by, in terms of the amount of electricity for households. So that was somewhere for the '20s 13.2 cents per kilowatt, and as far as citizenship is concerned, entrepreneurship here is 21st in 16 0.164 euro per kilowatt. So Croatia is in a good position, and we think we'll stay there because of the energy mix we have.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59217	Now it's time for my colleague, Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59218	Good afternoon. I wonder if you can clearly interpret Article 12(4), which says, the creation of technical conditions in the network is exclusively the obligation of the system operator. In fact, this article can cause an enormous increase in the price of electricity for citizens and the difficulties of companies within the HEP group because it actually means that HEP will have to fully finance the construction of the necessary infrastructure for new connections. This will benefit mostly from foreign lobbyists, although you keep mentioning solars and small users for new connections is actually largely about private entrepreneurs mostly interested in wind power plants and the biggest affair in our recent years has just been related to wind power plants. If we add unnecessary insistence of this law to HOSP from d.o.o. Transfer to a stock company with an inconclusive fact by explaining that this is an authentic translation of EU rules, we see that the path this law is going to and where it can actually end.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59219	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59220	Thank you, dear Parliamentarian. You have read the first sentence of the article, or paragraph, and you have not moved on. Well, but I just moved on, underneath everything else writes the answer to your question. So according to the methodologies, according to this one, according to the third one, who pays all that to the investor no HEP. Excuse me. Today, 80% of the net conditions were on the burden of investors, in the future methodology they would be similar or less or worse. In any event, the operator is obliged to do so in accordance with the methodology, and the methodology means which HER rules, it will prescribe what all that investor must pay HEP d or not HEP, but to the HOPS or HEP ODS in order to make the connection. So, as far as the burden of citizens is concerned, it's not a subject at all, it's an investor's burden.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59221	The fifth is a respected colleague of the Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59222	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, my question may be on the trail of what is respected colleague Peovic but from another aspect. Therefore, this law lays down common rules for the production, transmission, distribution and storage of energy and the supply of electricity. So that's the basic definition of the law. I'd like to refer a little bit to the distribution. So the distribution of electricity is a transmission that, which is performed that I am now not experimenting here, you are therefore high voltage, medium voltage and low voltage distribution system for its delivery to customers and does not include supply in the usual way. And now we in law have the definition that distribution is done by the HEP distribution system and that they are doing it and that they are exclusively for it for the next 50 years. How many 50 years? Why didn't you decide on less or you could leave and say in this law that HEP distribution is doing the distribution.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59223	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59224	Thanks for asking. We did not have that obstacle anywhere in the directives and in European rules. Why don't we decide that HEP ODS is for the next 50 years, since it's ODS owned by HEP who's been doing this job perfectly so far, and why wouldn't it still be? We think it's good, first of all, to protect both the state and the interests of our citizens that we have one stability and continuity when something is known to be the next 50 years and that simply these companies have to behave accordingly. And clearly, they have an Independent Energy Regulatory Agency as a controller who is then very much following them and there are even penalties that they can punish in case of malpractice, so there are no obstacles to them being 50 years old and that's good. We are such opinions, clearly you will.../Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59225	Thank you. Comrade Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59226	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here we have already heard some comments that according to this final proposal, the Croatian transmission system operator is reshaping from d.o.o. in a stock company and that is exclusively a sequence of the EU directive. So now I'm wondering if there's going to be any extra benefits for all of us, so for the citizens, for the entrepreneurs because of this change, and maybe somewhere behind the hill, there's going to be a good idea of one day selling or privatizing HOPS himself, or HEP? I'm asking you this because you know yourself in the public debate a lot of comments and concerns that this could happen even by the HEP distribution system, so these remarks are not respected. We know that the CAPS is a public good of the Republic of Croatia and that it must remain that way. So, comment, you're rolling behind the hill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59227	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59228	Beyond the hills, there is nothing but additional legal certainty for all users of the CAPS services. There is no problem in the ownership sense of the HopS itself. HEP d.d. is still 100% owner of the CAPS, but let's say it can't happen now that someone from HEP has just changed the HOPS Supervisory Board to let's say that the HOPS administration is changing rapidly and everything else, which is why the European regulator has asked it to be d.d. You all know what little you know about the trade right that d.d. A completely different situation according to d.o.o. We think as a state that it has no problem to be d.d., but it is to us as a ministry as the legislator of this law and as those who are obliged to make sure that the part, which is the regulated transmission on the high network, takes place through the CAPS, that it is in as strong a form as possible in terms of commercial law. The privatisation of HEP is out of the question, it's not a topic at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59229	Thank you. Comrade Simičević, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59230	I thank the president of HS. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here we have heard that the EU directives have been incorporated in this law, but the internal possibilities of electricity markets and new business opportunities have also been created. There are 141 members of this law here, and he's pretty clear, but I think there might have been fewer members of the law that might have been easier to read and understand. I'm interested in how many operators offer electricity on our market today, and how much does that actually contribute to the market's price formation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59231	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59232	Look, the law is detailed because he's a lot of technical law and he simply can't be, but he can't be, and what goes on will be more and more detailed because new institutes like the energy communities of aggregates are now being inserted,...the storage of everything else. As far as the market is concerned, we know who the distributor is and who is the system transfer operator, the supplier we have more, the main biggest supplier is HEP Elektra and HEP's companies, you clearly have RWE and other companies, they vary into a few dozen so they go down, but certainly 80% of our market is under the authority of HEP's daughters' companies which are in the situation we are in today because Croatia does not feel these market strikes as some other countries do.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59233	Comrade Dretar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59234	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Only one suggestion compared to the first reading. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The 5th is added to the 9th century. determining Without the need for ridiculisation, however, it sounds like the roof is of interest to the house or wheels of interest to the bike, I think it took a bit of intense definition to write that it is of exceptional interest or strategic. So, I just wanted to warn you. But one question or request for your comment on behalf of the citizens, we see and write itself a lot in the media, so I only ask for your comment. Will there be an increase in electricity prices for households during this autumn?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59235	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59236	Thank you. As for price hikes, you heard from HEP a clear communication that by the end of the year there is no thought at all, and I said earlier that 80 percent and more of it is under HEP, so it's practically not going to happen. And what you noticed, we further emphasized in the law precisely for electricity infrastructure when it comes to sub-sea cables, because there is a law on concessions that is in the Ministry of Finance where there is an annex, which says there are exceptions for certain concessions that do not charge the variable part of the concession and therefore we had to write in law that it is of interest that this article of the law and the directive can be transposed there, which in translation means that the cables that will be placed in the sea will be paid only for the occupation per square, not the variable part because then we have to charge it to you in electricity, and that doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59237	Now it's time for my colleague Ahmetovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59238	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, for the start of a small correction, I think HEP still holds 90%, not 80% of the market.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59239	Could be.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59240	However, Croatia imports 33.9% of electricity and what they can comment on, and you also know that such dependence on imports puts Croatia in a position and Croatian citizens to depend on even galloping prices. Since HEP is making an enormous profit, I am interested in why HEP decided to build a 60 megawatt power plant that is not enough to ensure security of supply, which would then certainly reduce that dependence on the import and dependence of Croatian citizens on price increases. I know you're going to say to the public now you're not going to raise the price. It will not be for political reasons because it does not suit you right now, but it will raise electricity prices to the economy, which will again affect citizens by shutting down the economy or through higher prices of the products themselves that citizens buy. What made you decide on a 60 megawatt power plant instead of the one that's enough? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59241	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59242	I didn't understand which power plant 60 megawatts?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59243	A bid for an allocation permit for construction of a 60 megawatt power plant has been opened, and it is not enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59244	Comrade Ahmetovic, please sit down, we can't do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59245	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59246	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59247	Certainly in two words. So our import is, you said it well, about 30 percent. When 13, 10 to 13% of imports from Krško Power Plant owned, half owned by HEP, so our net imports are always around 25, '6, '7%, there we agree, that the imports are still significant. As far as this law is concerned, this law is just designed for him to win by the end of 2030. A minimum of 3.5 and perhaps several thousand megawatts of new installed facilities in Croatia, and now the entire Croatia has 5200 megawatts of capacity installed. And that's the answer to your question. When we make enough production in Croatia, then we will not import energy and that is it. This law is only going to happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59248	Thank you. Now it's my friend Zurovec's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59249	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's the deal, you just took the word out of my mouth because according to the information I have, we still have the capacity for at least 3,000 megawatts. What I am interested in is that this is happening very big turbulence on the world market, and it will certainly be spilling over to us, whether an increase in electricity prices over the next year is expected, not necessarily this month, but given these enormous turbulences and at the price of electricity and related raw materials that are needed for whether we are expected to grow and whether we are going to have to compensate for it in principle for taxpayers' money. Our citizens especially later? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59250	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59251	Thanks for asking. As far as electricity prices are concerned, we are all witnessing that these months it is quite wild on, on our neighbouring markets and at all on world markets, this if this continues and if it is a trend it will probably have to come to some adjustments, but as far as I am still standing at a position that is simple, which is that Croatia is in a different position than the other countries because there is this energy mix that 60% of the total production of Croatian energy is renewable, of which it is almost 50% of the hydro potential where simply the input parameters are much smaller than those of these others, so we expect that if there were to be some corrections in the next year that correction will certainly not be as they will be in the neighbouring markets and I have just told you in which price range we are in that range and we will remain.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59252	Now it's MP Oreshkovic's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59253	Thank you, Chairman. Here, I'll try to explain it in a vivid way. When we talk about contracts, usually the problem arises where something is written in small letters, and in laws is the most common problem in the area where there is no law. Namely, we have now launched public procurements for production of production facilities, production plants, and we are giving the performer a deadline of 10.g. On the basis of the approval granted to build these facilities, contracts for the right of construction or the right of service with the Republic of Croatia will be concluded for this purpose, and if the facility is not built in those 10 years. There's an end to the contract. What I am dealing with is the fact that no one controls the content of these contracts on the right to build and on the right to serve, and just in the event of a break-up, there may be damage to the Republic of Croatia so much that it may not have done the way regulated, and what will then be with a large investment that is built on the property owned by the state, which will be the investor's or the Republic of Croatia and which continues to repair the damage.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59254	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59255	Thanks for asking. You've now been on the longest deadline, and that's the time limit for hydropower plants, and otherwise it's 5.g. for the complete construction of all for those who are according to transitional and final provisions, and those who go by art. It's 17 years old, so it's going to be followed in two ways. First, the Ministry of State Assets will put it in contracts, contracts. We've already talked about it and negotiated with our colleagues. It means that a contract on the use of the country or concession will clearly have clauses. If at 3.G. You haven't made an allocation permit, and you've already got a problem. If in the 5th year. You don't have, you don't have energy clearance, you lose it or you didn't do a project, you lose it. If at 7 a.m. These 17 also lose this and the contracts will write clearly that all that is found at that location is what is fixedly clear that it is from the state and that it is so. That's how we got the DORH instructions, those contracts will be done and that will be taken into account, plus we'll keep an eye on the ministry to monitor these investments.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59256	Thank you. And the last replica of my colleague Pavić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59257	My dear secretary, I must admit that the interpretations of this law are rarely good in the assembly and on the committee you gave us and at the plenary session we had during our first reading and today. However, what I would ask you to explain to us a little bit more, that is, to bring us closer to the problem of end-users, or those who want to produce electricity on their roofs. It is that we have a major problem in Croatia, which is the information of our citizens, the information of communities that could possibly produce that electricity, so I would like to ask you if you have anticipated any training, some particular information from our citizens, potential potential producers of that energy. How can I get the funds to build their power plants, how can I access it, and what are their advantages and benefits from all this together so that they can do better later?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59258	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59259	Thank you. It is clear that as long as this law is passed, sublegal acts will be made, and that is the HERI's documents that will take the most, perhaps a few months more, when we come to this esteemed home during some months and a few days with the Law on Renewable Sources, and it is clear that we will go into as much media offensive as possible, in a positive way, to inform the citizens of what we can do because what is here in this esteemed home has often been rightly questioned for the citizens, but it has been an misunderstanding for us to have a certain handicap, which is when citizens will be able to produce, sell and live from that roof. He's the one now, the institute is now possible not only through the supply itself but through the aggregate. And that part about aggregate supplyers, virtual networks, virtual power plants that's important that our citizens know and I invite them to read and follow this way, and we'll try Yeah, let's get the more information we need. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59260	Thank the Secretary of State, please return to your post, we will proceed now with the work. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I'm opening the debate, the first is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Honored counterpart Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59261	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, we are talking about electricity, we are talking about electricity production, and we are all witnessing these days that in the EU, Croatia and the world there is a trend in the introduction of so-called. renewable electricity sources or exploitation. And that sounds very nice, and even if someone wraps it in a green sort of foil, some green cellophane paper, then no one can say anything against the ecological forms of energy ever since we call them renewable energy sources. I am also for renewable energy sources and we Croatian sovereigns, however, have problems here. I'll talk about the wind power plant problem. According to current laws, wind power plants can be placed only 500 meters from the first facility, from the first house, 500 meters. I don't know who passed this law, and when, but it's probably some law from prehistory, and this way here's the Secretary of State calling for this law to change, or that it should be, to point out this problem because that law was obviously passed in that situation when, when the wind plants were 20-30 meters high, it's 500 meters logical to be something distant. However, today when the wind power plant is over 100 meters high, and its elises wings another tens of meters away happens to be actually that power plant far from the house not enough. I don't know if you're a respected secretary of state or a minister have ever been an aggregate of several megawatts that have all the same 150 meters. If you're not, I'm asking you to leave. Why am I saying this? Because in a small municipality of Dalmatian Zagora, called UNESCO in Sibenik-Knin County these days, petitions are being collected to prevent the construction of a windman. The wind farm is marked in a spatial plan according to the law, meaning 500 meters from the village, from several villages of the municipality of UNESCO. But it's about the aggregates that are just as high as I said. So the investor plans to build aggregates that will be nearly 150 meters along with an elis, creating a noise of 110 decibels that is all by law. And the only thing that matters is whether this aggregate is going to jeopardize bats, and it doesn't matter what dozens of ten renters in that village who have invested huge funds, built swimming pools, wanted to live off tourism in their homeland of Dalmatian Zagora are out of work. Does anyone talk about the landscape damage in the construction of wind parks? Does anyone talk about endangering tourism in the construction of wind parks? No, that's not what you're talking about. And not only are we going to sacrifice the landscape, sacrifice some branches of the economy to build wind parks, but we will even give even this wave to foreign investors a subsidized price of electricity, or even pay them because they work. So, dear secretary of state from this place, I invite you to put in the effort you have at your disposal and to help the residents of the UNESCO municipality. They're desperate, they're on the verge of strength, but they're not going to give up preventing the construction of a windmill that will permanently destroy the landscape in which they and their grandfathers and grandfathers have been living for centuries, permanently destroying. The village has only a few hundred or thousands of inhabitants does not mean that these people can be treated differently than the people of Sibenik, Zagreb or Split. Imagine the location of the Zagreb cathedral compared to the Croatian Parliament is one aggregate that is another 50 meters higher. Would that bother you or not? I'd mind. Now, those who have made some effort and some money, investors potential, of course, always foreign, should be compensated in some way. Here's an idea, let's have that zone re-purposed, make it a solar park. Here's an idea. And let's stop building wind parks. And for those of you who don't know what I'm talking about, I invite them to take the A1 highway to Dalmatia at night and before night, and then when they come near Benkovec, they'll know that they're near Sibenik-Knin County because it was Christmas time or New Year's Eve or any other time, it's always as bright as Christmas. It is hundreds of aggregates that have mutilated the face of Sibenik-Knin County today, and now what is crucial, what do Croatian citizens have? Someone on Croatian land is building a wind power plant, selling electricity to Croats, the Croatian state is giving them a subsidy, and they are just giving the local community what, one lip per kilowatt? One lip per kilowatt, so almost nothing. Funny little amount. I urge you to urgently put into the procedure a law that will allow all, including the residents of Unesic, to live from the production of electricity, so that each household can put itself on its roof solarly, means solar panels, produce electricity, and even consider that if someone has enough space around their house, or a large enough garden, to set up mini wind aggregates. And there's that in the world. But no one's talking about it. So, from this point on, I would say that the residents of the municipality of UNESCO have the full support of the party of Croatian sovereigns in preventing the construction of veterans who, who threaten to permanently mutilate the municipality of UNESCO and make life impossible for the residents of that municipality.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59262	Others will speak for their respected counterpart Darko Klasic on behalf of the HSLS and reformers' club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59263	Thank you very much, esteemed President of the Parliament, distinguished secretary of state with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I commend the efforts and good intentions made to obtain a law strengthening consumer protection provisions aimed at creating integrated competitive and flexible fair and transparent electricity markets across the EU, which are focused on the final buyer. Although I have some more questions to ask at the end of my presentation, some of the ambiguities that I think may have been omitted, so I'm going to ask for further explanations. The law brings a lot of newspapers and opens up space for new steps, and the new law makes it clear that EU directives have been followed, which is absolutely important in the interest of the single market. Following the above, this Law brings the opening of the market and that is good. It is important for us as customers that the public part of the service remains protected, and these are nets, in the area of supply, the market has completely failed, although in Croatia we have 7 electricity suppliers, HEP continues to hold a dominant position with about 90% of the market and this opening is welcome to encourage market competition compared to the former monopolies who have privileged state ownership status, he has so far. Croatian households will be able to buy favourable electricity from suppliers from Slovenia, Austria, the Czech Republic or any other EU member state, but also Slovenians, Austrians and other citizens of the Union will be able to arrange this Act from some Croatian suppliers for the supply of electricity. The freedom to buy electricity from any part of the Union is part of the freedom to provide services guaranteed to EU citizens by the Treaty on the Functioning of the Union. This freedom is achieved only in a fully open electricity market that allows its final customers to choose electricity suppliers and all electricity suppliers to deliver electricity freely to final customers anywhere in the EU. The law also removes unnecessary barriers to the electricity market as regards market entry, market labour and exit from the electricity market, but there will still be a public service obligation that must continue to be made available to consumers. The new law stipulates that electricity bills, other than consumption and cost data, should contain information that can help our customers compare our current contract with other offers, which means in real time the availability of all relevant data, to our customers, a calculation based on real electricity consumption using smart numbers. In order for this law to be a lifeline, it is necessary to bring home smart numbers, which is currently in Croatia, that I do not know whether because of this crown of crisis or other reasons, has stalled and this should certainly be accelerated urgently if we want this Law to live in practice. This Law also lays down rules on the independence of the Croatian Energy and Regulatory Agency and sets out how to cooperate with other Member States, regulators and transmission system operators, all with the aim of creating a fully interrelated internal electricity market in the EU. The integration of renewable energy and the security of electricity supply is encouraged, detailed rules are laid down to facilitate effective cross-border participation in production capacity development mechanisms. The CAPS as a transmission system operator plays a key role in the management of Croatia's electricity system and throughout the process of energy transition. In line with EU directives, it is clear that it will be necessary to transform the CAPS into a stock company and to appoint its assembly in a way that there are no other changes in ownership. In this respect, it must be fully independent of HEP regardless of ownership and under the direct control of the Government or the Minister responsible for the economy or energy. The idea of privatising or selling HOPS is completely beyond any common sense and there must be no option in any case and the Croatian state must remain in control. The key changes that this law makes for end-users are to allow the customer to change the supplier in just 24 hours over the next five-year period, allowing the manufacturer and the electricity supplier to enter and exit on the basis of economic financial sustainability and the supplier to make it easy for the customer to see and compare the prices of services on the market for free. This will contribute to the development of competitiveness and better positions for every small end-user. The law is good and represents a new step towards a free and transparent market and we will support it, but in the law we have seen some questions that are not fully defined and I would like from an esteemed secretary of state or from the ministry to get answers to them. Firstly, after the adoption of the Electricity Market Act, will the methodology for calculating transmission and distribution fees be made possible to build new production capacities with an emphasis on renewable energy sources? Secondly, given the current organisation and human potential, will the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency (HERA) play a more active role in regulating the electricity sector and will it succeed in adopting the Electricity Protection Act with a large amount of sublegal acts that will be needed here? And the third is actually, what is the status here of Krško Nuclear Power Plants in the coming development of the electricity market? As we have seen and heard, we have all focused on renewable energy sources, but this year in Europe, due to climate change, a major deficit in these renewable energy sources, the wind power plants in Europe have achieved only 2% of this year's... energy sector, it has proved to be another important part of Europe's energy resources relying on nuclear power plants, so I am interested in how our share of the Krško nuclear power plant fits in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59264	Thank you, too. Now it's Mr. Zeljko Pavić's turn to speak for the Club of Representatives of the SDP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59265	Thank you very much. Dear secretary with associate, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here I had a few suggestions a few remarks on this law in my first reading. To apologize immediately to the secretary, I couldn't for personal reasons and for the illness I came to talk to you so we could sort things out, but I hope we solved it on the board and that through further discussion we'll further define the things we need to define in sublaws. In fact, what I asked today, I asked whether there is a special training plan for our citizens, to keep our citizens safe and informed about how they can and can receive information or how they can participate in competitions in order to have energy supplies from their roofs or to have solar power plants from sources that will be from the eu funds or from the budget of the Republic of Croatia. It is about the fact that the big problem with us in Croatia is actually information, the information that our citizens have, of course, is available, but they are not available to everyone because of the technology and technology that they should have in order to get that information. So I suggest that if it's not a problem that, with what you've predicted, the ministry might do, perhaps, some other institution, transfer it to local self-government that local self-government has the opportunity to give accurate and correct information to our citizens when and how they can participate in competitions and how they can get panels or how they can get money for these panels. I also appeal to be working on informing these potential communities that would have their own power sources and that could then, of course, reduce the costs that we would potentially have. What is extremely important to me and us as Social Democrats is that you have paid special attention to the Consumer Protection Act, to the protection of individuals and to what I have highlighted last time is protection of personal data and we particularly welcome this. And I therefore believe that what you have done in the law is that it is a great step in writing this law, and I hope that this attention will be paid in particular later on when you bring in sublegal acts. The part that still makes us happy is that you actually made it possible for the supplier to change in a relatively short time. So what is defined in the law is that the supplier must and may change within three weeks, and in that part we would appeal to you as a ministry and to the legislator to define in sublegal acts and how those who will be suppliers of the market in the Republic of Croatia must build up, or that they must develop their information systems in order to be able to share each other's data. It is, however, that if these data are to be exchanged in real time we will be able to change the supplier in a shorter time and in a more quality way or we will allow our users, our residents, our citizens to, after their request... within a short period of time, a new supplier likely to offer them lower energy consumption. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also related to this part of consumer and end-user protection related to the protection of personal data. Given that suppliers will have an obligation to enable our end-users to see accounts, to watch their consumption in real time, I think it is extremely important to define exactly what suppliers should do in sublaw to protect the personal data of our end-users. It says in the law, in several places you have written that personal data will be taken care of, that these data will be protected, but I think we need to pay special attention to the adoption of sublegal acts because once that is placed on some portals, these data will be available to almost everyone, including hackers and those who want to abuse those data. There is another moment that concerns consumers who do not actually have enough money, and it is mentioned in the law that you will actually take care of these consumers through the system, monitoring the consumption system and that they will be met. Here we suggest that this system is put into context with other laws concerning our poorer groups and that in this way we actually control what these groups are getting and what we could possibly still help them in part of the supply of electricity, as well as the part that is related to our consumers who may in the future have their own, our sources of electricity on their roofs to guide them exactly what rights they have, what opportunities they are and what they are actually obliged to do after they put those panels on, on their roofs. The law is extremely complex, it's connected to a lot of laws. I, when I asked for this to be related to the basic laws in the law itself, came across that it was connected with several laws, I think that 3-4 of the laws that are mentioned in the law itself, or the interpretation of the laws with which it is connected, and it is really important to bring our citizens closer to this problem, to make it clearer to them, and that citizens can actively participate in, and in the part of the production of that electricity and later in the distribution if they have surpluses of electricity on their roofs. So I think that all that is written in the law we can welcome, we appeal to you that more of these sublegislative acts are solved by what needs to be solved and, of course, I hope that we will reach the end of our debate that... All of us. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59266	Thank you. Now it's Mr. Miro Totgergeli, speaking on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59267	Thank you, Vice President HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate, a colleague and a colleague. As a society, we have set ourselves a goal of decarbonising the system and of energy transition towards clean energy, and the key role of electricity plays a key role, and then it necessarily results in the need to open and bring the electricity system closer to the final customer and the manufacturer or to define the rules so that all the imagination and creativity of customers and producers can be expressed to the extent that the customer can also directly trade with the manufacturer. 20 years ago. This was technically completely inconclusive, and today's technologies all of this allow for only new measurement technologies and install them into their system, and it takes time and, of course, the legal solutions that allow it. And that is why today we are discussing the final proposal of the Electricity Market Act which allows it. New legal solutions and technology development can achieve a single market that will be better integrated and better protected from system interruptions and at the same time allow for a large integration of renewable energy sources and stronger market orientation, especially according to consumer rights and end-users in that market. The final draft law for the next 5 years allows the final customer to change the supplier within 24 hours, and suppliers must prepare a free tool to make comparison of the price of services available on the market so that final customers can choose for themselves the most favourable price. The final customers must be given better information and control of the electricity bill. New supply obligations also help suppliers identify vulnerable and energy poor customers who are being helped and thus affect the reduction of energy poverty. The final customers shall be allowed to participate individually and through communities, regardless of whether it is consumption, exchange, sale or provision of storage facilities. It enables the creation of new legal forms participating in the energy market and aims to enable all final customers to participate in the energy transition by managing their own electricity consumption and implementing measures to improve energy efficiency with a view to achieving energy savings. The objectives of renewable energy can only be achieved through the creation of a market framework that rewards flexibility and innovation and where final customers are allowed to be holders of flexible consumption based on the market principles needed to adapt the electricity system to variable and distributed sustainable electricity production. A technological step in the management of the power grid and the application of new technologies in production is necessary. Electricity accounts are an important means of informing final customers, other than consumption and electricity bill costs, should include other information that can help final customers compare their current contract with other offers, regular delivery of accurate information on the calculation based on real electricity consumption using smart numbers is important because it helps customers to control their electricity consumption as well as costs. The inclusion of all end customers requires appropriate incentives and appropriate technologies such as advanced measurement systems. The advanced measurement system strengthens final customers as these systems enable them to obtain accurate feedback on their consumption and production of energy in almost real time, to better manage energy consumption and to participate in consumption and other services management programmes and to benefit from their benefits as well as the resulting reduction of their electricity bills. The decision to introduce advanced measures within the national distribution system is based on an economic assessment of the analysis and assessment of the regulatory body taking into account the long-term benefits of introducing an advanced measurement system for end-users and the entire value chain, including for better network management, more precise planning and determination of losses in the energy network. Notwithstanding the data management model, it is important to establish transparent rules according to which data can be accessed under non-discriminatory conditions such as ensuring the highest level of cybersecurity of data protection and impartiality of data-processing entities. Between the first and second readings, the Proposer has introduced certain differences, it is good that they are in art. 3. added all new concepts and detailed clarifications, also in art. 4. related to the railway is added to the part that the braking can treat this as a production although in the railway, electric trains have been using it for many years at first, this energy has pushed on resistors and practically warmed up space, now as technology has changed it can be returned to the network, and that is actually what if you watch Formula 1 when it brakes then they take the energy that they later use when they leave the office to speed up the car, and so here at the braking the trains already have a long series of years to produce electricity because the generator brakes, and then when they move on, they use that same energy again to speed up the train itself. Also in Art. 12. An additional sentence is arranged, and I am glad that we mentioned it in the first reading to explain the fact that at the first moment when the article may not have been read to everyone or all of them in the same way, it is now all detailed so that it can no longer come to doubt. And here, through the replication of the initial exposure, it was seen that if you read the whole article, the whole point that there is actually no more ambiguity, it is important to read all not just parts. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this It's something that's actually a newspaper and so far we don't have in that form except for reversible power plants, so it's determined that electricity can be stored in a facility where electricity is stored by converting into some other form of energy, and it involves reversible power plants, pump power plants, electric boilers, heat pumps, battery tanks, electrolysators with a hydrogen tank and other devices. So that's more detailed now. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. In 133, the transfer provisions are laid down, and I can say that I am glad that during the debate and other clubs, they can say a lot more praise for this final bill than they have had, so I can say that they are supported by the HDZ Club, of course, by this bill. A.k.a. In 133, we are also considering an amendment that would in some way reduce this transitional period even slightly and on the other hand, where all those who have already applied would also be able to use all the benefits resulting from this new law in a simpler way than perhaps now defined by Article. 133. This is about helping that and the basic goal that this law should have, which is to make as many renewables as possible and build as possible. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59268	Thank you, too. It is now up to the House of Homeland Movement Representatives, whose views will be represented under this law by Mr. Davor Dretar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59269	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. So, just to start off with one extremely funny file I've heard, without electricity, we can't because if they hadn't invented it, we'd be watching TV in the dark. It is clear to all of us that this is an extremely important law and this law when it is as extensive as it is and quite professionally we try to read it and, of course, we can at least figure out a good plan for the future, a good plan for decarbonisation, a reduction of that carbon footprint, but as always with many laws, we have to ask the question of how it will be implemented and for which the time period in the future is even written. Of course, we cannot go into any kind of change if we do not have legislation and, of course, welcome this law. But I will only remind myself of some of the facts or views expressed during June when we had this law here in our first reading. He feels a lot of lobbyist influence around here. The question is, of course, are we going to talk about moving the population to where big wind power plants or huge solar power plants come into existence one day? Let us also remind ourselves of the fact that the vice president of the Croatian lobbyist society is directly connected with lobbying in energy in a very close relationship with Mr. Minister. It should also be pointed out that companies that built other renewable sources, so wind power plants, biomass or biogas plants and solar power plants, have interesting business profits that are not less than 25% of the revenue. So I ask the simple question, is the idea of protecting the climate to unscrupulous guessing of individuals, and whether it is a great idea here in Croatia, yet it experiences or experiences its failure. The drastic example is also here several times mentioned affair related to the wind power plant Krš Padjene, we will not go into details just to bring some data. The preferential tariff for Krš Panedjene 15th is EUR per megawatt hour less than the famous tariffs fixed by the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, at EUR 109 per megawatt hour. Breach of Fallen 94. The comparison with Germany tells us that there is a preferential tariff after 6 years of wind power plant is EUR 94.5 per megawatt hour. Money from the incentive for such produced energy does not stay in Croatia but rather goes to foreign countries that not only sell their product to us but we reward them abundantly with incentives. The precise direct profit for the Croatian industry is very low. In fact, we don't produce essential components for wind power plants or solar power plants. Our industry is based on the production of hydropower plants that are also renewable sources, but at present it seems to me that both in this law and in terms of the future are being put aside. Can you read the impact of lobbyists here too? 80% of the parts and equipment for hydropower plants are produced in Croatia except natural turbines. Let's also think of a factory in Karlovac that produced them but unfortunately, it doesn't work anymore. The HEP administration is implementing an energy policy that encourages the construction of wind power plants and solar power plants while on the other hand we ignore the hydropotential our country is rich in. We also heard commendations that HEP invested and built the first wind power plant in Croatia that is not in the incentive system. The data, however, says that a state-owned company from the foreign company Nordex has agreed to deliver turbines for a built wind power plant of about half a billion kuna and that of budget kunas. So, very problematic data. Finally, 5,338 gigawatt hours were produced in hydropower plants, 29% of electricity required. The thermal power plant is slightly more than 4,000 gigawatt hours, Krško Nuclear Power Plant 3.020 gigawatt hours. To compare HEP's wind power plant Corlat 52 gigawatt watches, so 60 times less than our hydropower plants. Sun power plants and biopower plants 26 gigawatt hours, so about 150 times less. The HEP group in last year achieved a consolidated net profit of nearly a billion and a half kuna, which is more than 60 million last year. Although it sounds nice to remind once again of the views of all competent and relevant economists HEP is a company that needs to reinvest and be an industrial driver and raise the entire economy of Croatia with its investments. I'll add some quotes from this bill. Electricity bills are an important means of informing final customers, no doubt. The final customers, and especially the customers of the household category, should have access to flexible arrangements for real payment of their accounts. Access to energy services allows citizens to exploit their potential and increase their social inclusion. We have to admit it sounds great. Energy poor households are mentioned here, unfortunately in Croatia they are the most common and existentially poor households. A few words about electromobility. Decarbonisation of the transport sector, especially in urban areas, sounds fantastic. This year we saw about 90 million kuna in incentives for the purchase of electric cars, it was taken over very quickly. So, obviously, and I'm glad that we also heard from the respected Mr. Milatić in a conversation here in June that every year this quantity intends to increase and in a significant percentage because of the only way we can of course carry out the already mentioned carbonisation. Of course, you should also build a charger’s networks because how on the roads all these powerful electric cars will simply be loaded. We have real pride that we have a global player in Croatia, which is, of course, the company Rimac, the other day here in the assembly about the same company we discussed through the potentials of the Chinese Investment Bank where we mentioned the company as one of the few that actually has everything needed to enter into such serious and large investment processes. We have heard that, of course, the company from the famous EU fund will, of course, receive large funds and we absolutely stand for it. So you need to think well and look to the future through this law. But allow me just one comment. It seems to me that in this bill we see potential and we see thinking for the 21st century, but we must recognize energy through responsibility and through readiness, and primarily the will of those who lead the country we stand in the 18th century. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59270	Thank you. Mrs Katarina Peovic will speak on behalf of the HSS and Workers' Front Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59271	I need to replicate right now, so I might say that we don't see that much potential in this law at the HSS and RF Club, and I'm going to try to explain why. Of course, no one is against the green transition, the transition to renewable energy sources really has no alternative, but it should also be taken into account that in Croatia in recent years the biggest affair was the Romec affair just related to wind power plants, that the government in Croatia is actually leading the HERA Energy Regulatory Agency so that it does not respect the procedure for the appointment of members of the administration, so clearly in the energy segment there is total chaos. Therefore, this Law on the electricity market really needs to be read carefully. The law has even reached 130 pages of comments which in itself already raises doubts despite the fact that HEP d.d. and its HOPS operators, HEP ODS, means the HEP-Operator of the distribution system actively participated in the consultation, warned and tried to correct the bill's proposal, all their key objections were rejected, while in turn they accepted the observations of private owners of large-scale capital already making plenty of money from the incentives of the primarily economic interest association The renewable energy sources of Croatia. This law should ensure that private persons, therefore, put solars on their roofs, the state should mediate and educate as best as possible what would be the result of this law to really make mobile teams go home, so both in the population and explain in what way, how, with which incentives, which is the procedure of setting up a solar system because many buildings, many private ones would put solars, but they have no information on what it means and how it is done. Here, however, two disastrous provisions of the law that really need to be changed were created by the lobbyists and authorities. I've already warned one of them in replicas, so... 12th century 4. which is read and now I will read it whole because I have enough time to do this: The creation of technical conditions in the network is the obligation of the system operator in accordance with the 10-year development plans of the transmission or distribution network and the regulations governing networking. The secretary replied that HERA would therefore determine, that this HERA that has been working irregularly for months will do so. Okay, okay, but either this article means it's unnecessary, so it stays the same as it was, so 80% of investors have paid for it themselves by now or something has been introduced that's different. But what's problematic here is saying that the creation of technical conditions is in the system operator's network obligations. So it hasn't written anything yet, so that's the obligation of HEP. That if this article is said to be such that it actually regulates everything to remain the same then it is unnecessary, if some news is introduced, then it should explain which and certainly leaves room for any interpretation. Creating technical conditions in the network. What does that mean? Therefore, this means the construction of new parts and/or reconstruction of existing parts of the transmission and/or distribution network to use the network within an approved connection power that does not include a connection to the network. It means the provisions of Art. 12. means in translation that each producer has the right to build and connect to the network regardless of the degree of construction of the network, and that system operators, HOPS, HEP ODS, will have to fully finance the construction of the necessary infrastructure for their accession. In the next 5 years. It is expected to double the renewable energy source to a total of 1500 megawatts, which will mean twice the size of the CAPS and HEP ODS investments from the current ones, although this is a lot of this is nothing given that today, according to the realization, more than 10,000 megawatts of new sources are being pushed. So since it is a huge amount of new sources and infrastructure that will be built, it will mean technical damage to the system and to the bassological costs of public funds, primarily from the HEP Group and the consumer account, and it will be poured into the pockets of most foreign investors, and here it is often said that small producers will be encouraged here, that consumers will now become producers, but here we also see in the e-consultation itself as to how many lobbyist associations participated in this and what benefits they will benefit from this. So two possible consequences. First, there will likely be a huge increase in the electricity bill and secondly, the difficulties of the system within the HEP group which may be the healthiest and strongest business entity in Croatia will happen, so HEP is certainly the most profitable because this year alone has paid about 800 million kuna of profits into the state budget. Both means the effects of the power increase enormously and bringing HEP into trouble doesn't sound very good. So maybe the law will now be interpreted by the secretary of state as saying, but it leaves the possibility for such interpretations and we can expect these results. So that's where the second law problem that's connected to this first one is going on, and that's art. The 84th century 12, where the power is almost then stated without, in small letters when you read some laws, says this independent transmission operator is obliged to organise himself as a stock company. Thus, the law imposes, without any rational reason, the transition of HEP from the current organisation of a limited liability society to a limited company with a completely unconvinced explanation that this is an authentic translation of EU rules, here we stick to the translation of, or the EU Directive 2019/944 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 June 2019 on common rules for the internal electricity market with which this bill is aligned. I think it is, therefore, literally a quote explaining the text in the said directive in Croatian is a limited company, not a limited society of responsibility. So, despite the fact that the EU directives are not implemented directly in the legislative framework of the state, as is the case with the EU regulations, despite the fact that the EU has not had any objections to the current legal structure of the CAPS and has subsequently issued the CAPS certificate for the adopted IT model, the CAPS as part of the vertically integrated company HEP d.d., is it, and while this model guarantees significant independence in business, we, however, in the manner of autocolonialism of the rulings, still need to be more sacred than the Pope, even though no one is asking us to do so, are doing such an unnecessary change, how do we have to implement it, colleagues and colleagues, and Slovenia and Hungary did not have to implement it? If the CAPS and the rest of HEP come, and now here is an explanation of what is actually meant, set a course for another model, if the CAPS and the rest of HEP come into financial difficulties, and it seems that's exactly what they're trying to achieve, transformed into d.d., they will be targeted at a logical conclusion on the need for recapitalisation, in other words, the privatisation of the golden HEP coke, which is nicely enabled by art. The 104th law is not in itself a problem, an article in the old law because it does not mind, but it is really problematic if it comes to expression when the company is in the form of d.d.. So the Secretary of State assured me and assures us that everything will be fine, that there will never be a privatisation of HEP, I am glad, a sentence that we have heard, will not in any way come to the privatisation of HEP, either, that there will not be a collection of electricity, but the laws are not here for us to believe in the word of the secretary of state, but that, in order for us to very unequivocally determine what is possible, which is not and may not be the case in your mandate, but in another, it will certainly be possible. So the CAPS company is extremely important, HEP is extremely important, I'll say a little bit more about it in an individual debate, that I'm not spreading the story here now, it's certainly the same thing to say that it's possible and to set some more progressive visions, is it, if the law looked a little different, and that's something that's mentioned so intensely relying on its own economic and economic developmental path, which can be set over green transition and against, the green energy transition, certainly no one is, but this law actually more or less illustrates the power and reach of private lobbyists that are increasingly and increasingly affecting the laws that come to ours, us here on reading. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59272	You, too. - Mrs. Crescent. Anka Mrak-Taritash will speak for the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59273	Thank you, well-respected vice president of the HS, a respected secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. I'll talk about shape first, then content. So, otherwise, when we look at polls, the work of HS, or those of us sitting here and discussing it, we get possibly some skinny two, so we're doing best because it's the whole time that we're discussing, and behind that, it's absolutely irrelevant, and the ministry that proposed the final proposal of the Electricity Market Act has rated us as a clean unit. Namely, what am I saying? Every law has a reason why it is passed, so we have provisions to implement, so we have provisions of certain articles, then there is a difference between the first and second reading, so what happened and in the first reading, when it was law, it discussed the law, I pulled from the Parliament's page, so the Honored Secretary of State got 10 replicas, 5 clubs were discussed and there were four other individual discussions, some 3.5 hours were discussed, and the ministry wrote in the explanation a sentence which reads "Other remarks and opinions relating to, presented at the 7th session of HS, were on issues which were not related to the subject and content of the bill proposal and therefore did not particularly explain their non-acception here." So what you said, you said, it's absolutely irrelevant, we don't need to explain you at all because you were, I'm not going to use any harsh words, so it's enough with one sentence to say what we think of you. In doing so, we need to know that only the Ministry of First and Second Reading needed a lot of changes and a lot of changes in the law. From the terms, to certain provisions, to certain articles. So the Ministry just said, look, the law should really be complemented, I think no law is carved into stone, it should be applied and in application when we see that something is wrong, do it. Rarely, I have so far not had a single case of the law that I have discussed, that this was a sentence "Every time what they accept, it says to be accepted, what is not accepted, in the extreme line, if someone has discussed past the topic, says the parliamentary representative or the club has discussed beyond the topic. This is just not good. This simply speaks of the relationship between the executive and the legislative authority and I will put an end to it and I will not discuss it further. Therefore, the final proposal of the Electricity Market Act is an important law. The law is important for the real estate so for the future of Croatia. The prime minister, Prime Minister Plenkovic, on Monday or Tuesday, now I don't know what day he was at a rally and there he said one sentence with which I fully agree, which he said "For the future of our country, two things will be important, and that is food security and security of energy supply." I have to, I have nothing to add or take away, I have no problem agreeing with and with someone I don't normally agree with. So energy security is extremely important. This Law defines several topics and these topics are worth discussing and saying attitudes and saying what is good, which is not good. It prescribes rules for production, rules for transfer, rules for distribution, rules for energy storage and electricity supply, and speaks about consumer protection, talks about ensuring acceptable and transparent prices and energy costs for final customers. Therefore, it all starts with production, and ends with consumer protection, i.e. that the final customer is protected, not only in the formal part but also in the essential part. This essential part speaks of the fact that the final customer must be an active buyer, that it must obtain complete information, that it must strengthen its role and that one of these empowerments is also an advanced system of measurement so-called. the measurement system. So, I met with the fact a year ago, and I wanted to go and read the number in the apartment where my son lives, and I concluded that it's almost impossible for me, and that this one smart system of measurement, that every month we get an account, and that's how much he spent, how much he didn't spend, and why, and that's what we really want. We want to know what we're paying for what we paid for, and that's the point, and it all starts with production, so it's production insurance. And here I will come and refer to something that is at this point for the Croatian state, and I am very important to you, and that is the green European plan. In the context of this, our Resilience and Recovery Plan so how to give you resistance to the situations that have occurred to us, but then how to recover. So, when we had a chance to discuss it here, it's not a list of good wishes and all. The role of one country and those who manage the country is to allow as much self-sufficiency as possible in food, we will never be able to ensure absolutely complete and as much security as possible in obtaining energy. Without energy, there will be nothing, so there is also the importance and maintenance and security of our distribution and transmission systems. I don't need to remind you, and we all remember what happened to us after the Homeland War or at a time when some parts of Croatia couldn't even get electricity because simply the systems went through some other parts that were in the area of the former Yugoslavia that were cut off, which were cut off, which simply wasn't possible. So, on the one hand, ensure the conditions for good and quality production in the context of the green plan, green energy and no one has ever said and can't say it's not cheap, so it's not production of getting energy from the wind, from the sun, from some other things it's just not cheap, but it's talking about the consciousness of a country where it goes. I said something in my first reading, and I'm gonna say it again now, I'm 2000. I got a gift from one of the institute calendars that was 12 months from 2001 and had hot cartoons from which electricity can be produced, so in 2000 to 2001, from wind, from sun, from waste, from sea, from the difference of tides and axes so a series of things, we came to the wind and it's kind of a bitter taste in the mouth of all wind and wind power plants we've come to solars and now this law actually encourages communities of citizens and electricity production, so a certain step has been made, but there's still a lot of it through certain provisions. So, if we want the distribution of electricity to be in the hands of Croatia and if we want it to be in the hands of HEP then that should be said clearly and not said for the next 50 years. In 30 years or 20 years, what's going to be, it's hard for only some visionaries who are flying into space today might be able to see, we ordinary people who think in slightly different categories are hard to see. So let's tell the truth, let's have on paper one thing and in reality another. I've asked two questions on the board today to the secretary of state, something that I think is never good, and that's what I'm saying in the context of these smart indications, the minister will make decisions when and how, and I don't think that's good and I think... that it's a government-level thing and it's not a problem, so it's one decision. But good. The Proposer decided on another model and another way, and then I also mentioned the chargers to electric cars, but I will continue to discuss this in an individual debate and I will, individually, take a moment to protect consumers or energy poverty and car chargers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59274	Thank you. And we move on to individual debates, the first is Mrs. Katarina Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59275	Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone. Let me say something a little bit more about why HEP is important, why it is important to the HOPS, means the Croatian transmission system operator d.o.o. (HOPS) is part of a HEP group that owns a key, electricity infrastructure means a network of power lines and high voltage trafostations that transmits electricity. The CAPS is also responsible for the management of Croatia's electricity system, therefore, the CAPS is an extremely important strategic and infrastructure enterprise. The value of the long-term HOPS assets is more than 6 billion kuna, while the total long-term hep assets amount to around 35 billion kuna, while HEP’s profit for 2020 is 1.4 billion even kuna. The quality of the CAPS network transmission of HEP capacities will therefore be a crucial factor in a highly demanding green energy transition. Therefore, the vertical organisation of the HEP group with the CAPS and HEP is the only correct and sustainable solution to the distribution system operator within it. The whole HEP, and in particular the HopS and HEP ODS must and it is important to make more emphasis on staying in public state ownership. I'm glad that I've heard of the State Secretary's promise here, but we must demand that the laws be written in a way that is uniform. They are no private farce, but the property of all of us and without their survival as a public goods will not be provided with electricity provided, nor the acceptable objectives are such, in the future, the attitude of energy experts throughout the world. And here we must ensure that the law is uniform. On the other hand, the government is clearly making every effort to weaken HEP's business system. HEP takes a large share of profits each year, thus reducing the potential for investment. Only this year did HEP have to pay 840 million kuna to the state budget. At the end of 2018, the government probably made a decision under pressure from part of the business lobby to cut the network for large consumers by 20%, since then the CAPS revenues and investment potential have been significantly lower. The party's personnel as we know it doesn't stop but it continues and bothers the HEP in fact. This law, the Law on the electricity market, is therefore a bad relationship with a strategically important state-owned company, in which the CAPS, indirectly and throughout the HEP, imposes impossible conditions and astronomical costs which it is unlikely to bear. Comparatively, there are two dangerous requirements. One enables the HEP group to impose huge costs, so the introduction of these new connections means with a completely unclear Article 12(4) and another thing means the conversion of HOPS to d.d., means a company that actually joins one of those other requirements. In parallel, it is ordered to transform into a sharer's second, and with intertwined means at high costs where it is meant then it can lead the CAPS into a situation of need for recapitalisation and then ultimately it means privatisation. When we add intertwined affairs in the state, the state regulator means HERI to which the decision to capitalize or actually privatise the CAPS with private capital or direct transfer of private capital is left over part of the transmission system, then it becomes clear what this law is actually going to do in its final step. Yes, such bad legal solutions, which fully pave the way for a well-known recipe for destroying businesses in Croatia, mean breaking, poverty, destruction and distribution in this case, should not be welcomed. This may lead to serious security disturbances in supply, so as the Workers' Front, we will propose two amendments to those two articles that we consider very, very dangerous. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59276	You have as much as I've seen one replica, Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59277	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Peović, here in 2 readings in several discussions insist that when the secretary of state says that we do not want to privatise HEP, HOPS, HOC, etc., you continue to insist that we will deal with this because we have put that instead of d.o.o. have d.d. And then it's simpler and we'll do it. What makes such final words that need to convince citizens that we are constantly doing something beyond some of our strategic interests, which is that HEP is always owned by the state because it is the basic thing that every policy and government should have. That you have energy under control because it's not something else I don't know, so we're playing on the market with something. So why is it that when all the people in charge clearly claim that there's nothing to do with it and that maybe some other, maybe tomorrow, when they show up on a political scene, but that this government has nothing to do with it and I don't want to hear it because it has nothing to do with what it says here and it's just insinuations, nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59278	Please respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59279	Well, thank you very much for that. Why does the opposition insist on, to put it that way, let's simplify the negative reading of the law. Because the resistance really warns us that the worst reading should be considered because it wouldn't really be the first, not the last time a successful company is destroyed, so breaking down, impoverishing at the end of the sale. It's a pattern that HDZ's been practicing for really decades so I really don't know how many times we should question our intelligence if you have the same, same instructions as the exits. But as far as reading like this is concerned, and what you're saying is that the Secretary of State assures me that it's going to be the opposite of saying the laws need to be unambiguous. We cannot pass laws in which the State Secretary and Ministers They have to make sure it's not gonna be the way we read it. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59280	Thank you. Now it's Mrs. Anka's turn, Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59281	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, there are two more very important topics to me that are part of that Law. One is decarbonisation of the transport sector, and the other is the energy poor household. It is clearly stated in this Law that, therefore, decarbonisation of the transport sector and reduction of emissions from the transport sector, especially in urban areas, play an important role, electromobility in contributing to the achievement of the objective, which is, among other things, the introduction of electromobility as an important element of energy transition. And now we come up with a few things. The first thing is that I would really have electromobility, I think it's extremely important for public transport, so that municipalities and cities that have public transport, really to go to the maximum for a simple reason is those that really cause more CO2 emissions and everything else. In these cities also play an extremely important role, I must remind you that, for example, London, long ago, has decided that cars that have classical, classical fuels cannot or have certain... But in order for this to be possible together, they have to be chargers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, in order for someone to have an electric car, to drive it, to have safety, they have to be chargers, and now we come to an interesting provision in this Law. So, among other things, it is stated that HEP distribution systems must not and cannot have chargers in their possession, except what they have at the time when the law enters into force, or 6 months from the date of entry into force, which is one provision that we absolutely agree with, what you have, you have. But then he doesn't see it, trouble, the promoter said or began to develop it. So, I don't have any problem saying, okay, they still have it because they have it. I don't have any problem saying about those for whom a possible location permit has been issued or who are already listed somewhere, but leave a provision or start to develop it. When? Today? So it can be the proposer and the word HEP distribution system can have chargers, but don't work on us not to say what. On the one hand, you tell them I can't, it's six months, but on the other hand, you tell them that, or he starts to develop them. What moment of development? So, unscheduled provisions, when we have unscheduled provisions in the law, then of course, those provisions are something at the small door. So, I have no problem and I have decided that they have, but either they have or they don't have, give deadlines, and don't take on the one hand, and on the other hand play what is usually a feature of our legislation. The special provision speaks of energy poor households and then says they are households that cannot afford energy services due to combined low incomes, high energy consumption and poor energy efficiency of their homes. Point. And now it would be convenient to know what we're doing here to make these energy poor households as little as possible? So as soon as the energy efficiency of their homes is poor, it's logical that more energy consumption, especially if they're used for other things, for the simple reason that it's connected to each other. But what's become lately, you always have some time where we have some, some, like, something to wear. One time you wear red, another time green. In our laws lately, we've been carrying on that nothing we need to settle, we don't settle the laws, but we're transferring it to sublegal acts, regulations, regulations, and everything else that goes past the Parliament, and not to say that in context, let's say the Zagreb Reconstruction Fund is a man who heads the Fund, becomes a time chronicler, and then he goes outside, makes a press release, and says what the Ministry didn't do, which is not done by him or by someone else. Likewise, and in this law. So we have this problem. That's the problem we know is a serious problem and instead of having another 2, 3 provisions or indications on how to solve it, we figure it out and put a point there and we finish the story.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59282	Thank you. Mr. Hajdukovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59283	Thank you very much. My colleague, I'd just like to overpower your argument. Undetermined provisions in our laws are often the source of late entanglements, sublegislative acts, hunts in murky and all that, which we are actually witnessing in our legislative system. In fact, I agree with you that the indeterminate provisions later give birth to everything that ultimately gives us ineffective laws, even though the intention is good. So this bona fide, which is spoken by the promoter, falls into the water when we meet with such qualifications, i.e. with such formulations in the law. Also, I'd like to extend your argument about the energy poor household. It's great that we've defined them, it's great that we're, for the first time, discussing these qualifications, but I also want to ask a rhetorical question that you asked, and what are we going to do to make such households less or less?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59284	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59285	Thank you very much. So the former assembly of the Parliament and the laws that we have received was precisely characterized by the fact that the laws wanted to be resolved as little as possible and that the main thing of it had been passed over to the regulations adopted by the Minister or by some other regulation or regulation, which the Government has brought forward for a simple reason, in this way you are somehow passing the procedure of the parliamentary debate. In a parliamentary debate, no matter what individuals think of parliamentary MPs, we read something, we refer, we indicate, we insist, we have some experience, and in this way it passes, and it was a characteristic of the previous Parliament's calling and it continues. Now it becomes the next feature. We really get laws, these laws, they're written like that, and you can't do that, so you can't add or take away what energy poor households are. And it's a good thing we've figured that out, but let's just say, in an explanation, there's something we should say about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59286	Thank you very much. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Mirela Ahmetovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59287	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President HS, Honorable MPs and MPs. Every bill discussed by the SDP and I personally as a parliamentary representative of the SDP, we are discussing primarily from the aspect of the well-being and interest of the Republic of Croatia and of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are finally and make up the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, in this short time, I will look only at the small segment of this law relating directly to those two elements or one element of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. For the reasons for which this law is adopted, you have counted the preparation of risks to the security of electricity supply. Croatia imports 33.9% of electricity and this is why it prepares to raise electricity prices for the economy, estimated by 40%, and thus destroying our weak economy anyway. In order to prevent this, and you have confirmed it yourself, we should have reduced that share of imports where prices dictated by the other and Hungarians, and you said that the Croatian, Croatian energy prices, electricity depends on the Hungarian market, so we need to build a thermal power plant from 400 to 500 megawatts. Instead of such a power plant in Rijeka, HEP is building a 60 megawatt power plant that is 7 times smaller than one that would be sufficient for Croatian needs. And no, it's not about the money. The money is not in question because HEP shows a billion-and-a-half kuna profit, and a 60-megawatt power plant, or an all-location license for which the tender was declared to cost about 4.5 million kuna. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: I quote, however, hydrological opportunities in certain parts of the year, and inability and price incompetence of the thermal power plant caused high imports into the Croatian electricity system. In certain driving situations, the supply of electricity observed through the Croatian electricity system was not satisfied. So, the HEP itself confirms that we don't have the security of the system. So there are no financial problems, but there are problems in working for general or public good. HEP doesn't care what the economy fails, he doesn't care what ultimately and citizens pay by paying a higher price for the product, and this increases the price for the economy. The security of electricity supply also means the safety of stable prices and the same electricity for consumers, i.e. households and the economy. HEP has financial resources, and instead of investing them, I am talking about profit, HEP is determined to return that profit to the state budget. Citizens will pay for the price rise of course, so it doesn't matter. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. In 56, you state that the sale of electricity to final customers must cover, so you state what, and may include the payment of the use of the transmission distribution network, as well as other fees in accordance with the law. I call on you to refrain from paying the fees mentioned in this article, as they have already paid that fee to the citizens themselves, and the HEP is not capable of investing in this extra income over expenditures. It's not inventing hot water. Namely, just copy it from the case of Spain. If Spain can, as well as Croatia, and that it can confirm HEP because the surplus is paid into the state budget rather than investing and ensuring the security of electricity supply and reducing the dependence on imports, or reducing the possibility of galloping prices on cargo and on the back of Croatian citizens, whether they are economics or households. In contrast to Croatia, Spain has made sure that the average monthly accounts of its citizens are reduced by 22% by the end of the year, and given that HEP achieves a profit it does not invest but returns to the state budget, there is room for intervention in the form of a reduction in compensation and VAT on electricity. It just matters if the citizens and our economies are our first priority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59288	You have two replicas, the first replica was sought by Mr. Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59289	Thank you very much. My colleague Ahmetovic, you have touched a few things and I would like to repeat that often a lack of vision by the government, so central state, and then HEP and all others actually contribute to this uncertainty of electricity supply. We have repeatedly spoken in this assembly, and you have also said that, let's say, the reconstruction of Zagreb is a great opportunity for us to renovate buildings, to put solar or photosensitive panels on buildings where this is possible, that the more buildings can become if not energy-sufficient then at least that they can produce some of the electricity they need. Unfortunately, we see for ourselves how the reconstruction of Zagreb goes, so that only a few buildings have been torn down, unfortunately the reconstruction has not begun, but also in these aspects of energy security that are extremely important in the new world no one has considered. Without such a broad view, a strategy and a multi-sectoral inclusive view, I'm afraid that security will not be in due course.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59290	Thank you, Mr. Hajdukovic. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59291	Thank you very much. A fellow representative, therefore, is correct, there are no visions in terms of the security of the power supply. There was an intention to build a 500-megawatt power plant in Plomina, but Europe stopped it, and yet it is because it is a technology that has become obsolete or that is fossil fuels, and then we started building a power plant in Osijek, it is also enough, but because of our inability we haven't done it, here we are now building a river thermal power plant, but within the lack of enough. So, we opted for imports at higher prices, at galloping prices, but we will not allow it to keep citizens and our economy uncircumcised, but we will also keep high maintenance fees or construction of a distribution system that has already been built out of the pockets of Croatian citizens and that Croatian citizens in such a context of uncertainty pay for some renewable energy sources, but let us remember those large ones that produce and renewable energy sources and sell again at prices like this. [[Intruder Radin: Time, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59292	Thank you very much. Mrs. Dark Tarritash, second replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59293	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. My colleague Ahmetovic, you started your exhibition about not being able to quote exactly now, but about where Croatian citizens are, or the importance of Croatian citizens. The laws are not passed in order for the ministries to have something to do and deliver to us, not because we should debate but because every law needs to be seen as the purpose and purpose of the law. The purpose and purpose of this law should be to enable the production of energy, I am talking about electricity, that it comes in quality to the consumer, that end-users all of us and our citizens pay as little as possible. It is not the purpose of this law that the end-user or all of us pay as much as we pay as possible, to be sure of all this together. And now there's a key question and we didn't get that answer from the secretary of state, does this law really have all these preconditions to do that? There's a part, but no part.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59294	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59295	Thank you very much. My colleague Taritash, I am pleased that you understand that every law must be in the function of directly facilitating the life of Croatian citizens, and I would like all those who propose laws to them in such a way to propose them. However, the fact is that Croatia today is number one per import, if we speak in relative terms of imports of electricity, and we are talking about the relativity between imports and consumption, that speaks enough about what the intentions of the ruling in terms of ensuring electricity self-sufficiency or sufficientness are. We can accept that it's 10% imports, but we can't do more than that because it's not the same to pay for 10% consumption of the galloping price than 33.9% for now. Given how much it invests in its own energy sources, and given that the energy raw materials of the Republic of Hungary are handed over to Hungary, we will never be sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59296	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. And it's Mr. Josip Boric's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59297	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, the distinguished secretary of state with a co-worker. Here are a few of my thoughts on this Electricity Market Act. First of all, a little reference to what's been said here today, I hope that the state secrets in the final presentation will come out again and talk about it because I think it's very good at it to get more off the side of this story that is insinuating during this debate. You want to privatize HEP, you want users more energy prices, you want their bigger bills, you want to destroy, you only import etc. I hope that you as secretary of state will discuss it here because the fact is that we first started to argue that this is a good law, a modern law even from the SDP we have heard a lot of criticism, good criticism, and now, at the end of the debate, it can't be yours anymore, because what it says here certainly goes for us today who live at this time and we certainly need to see the care that 11,000 people, today in that system, are doing very well in that group so that we here today have the first conditions that we can work. Let's turn off the light and the pay phone here and we can all go out, and I think that's how we can discuss in every household that the transfer, distribution, production is very much working, no matter what they say that makes sense and that it works, it's been built and upgraded for hundreds of years, and today HEP is better than it ever was, we have to say that no matter what you politically ideologically say here. What surprises me here? I'm surprised that one club that stood up so much for solarists didn't find time in two discussions to say a single word, a replica on the subject of this law that allows solarians at exactly the houses they were talking about. We couldn't live with them here, from their interventions, the desire to pass their law that would solve it in a few articles as many as they wrote. Now that we have it settled through this law nothing, there's no one anywhere. We've heard green-left policies, none of them, none of them, here's a colleague of mine who answered at the end now, not a word. Why? Because energy is obviously not such an important area for the next ten years, etc. So most importantly, as well as this law which fundamentally regulates exactly the most important energy area we want to deal with and which we want to develop. And what we have against what's written here today, so I haven't heard anything almost special from what I should be worried about, except the criticism that we want to destroy something and that's how we discuss it. Here the lady comes out, you want to destroy and you're worth the market among voters 30%, those who save worth one are today's relationships, but that's not so. And when citizens listen to our debates, obviously it's not that important here anymore, it's more important to say something in the hallway because the assembly unfortunately has no value in the Croatian media that it used to have. Today when we have to talk about what this law brings us, simply criticism without any arguments or grounds, suspicions ok. Do we have anything against this part that prepares us for a new energy transition and the use of renewable energy sources? The first, wind farm on Pag in 2005, the sixth made, we all looked at it and we were surprised it was there. We had to go to the Netherlands and I don't know which countries to see the wind power plant. We heard from some of them today that they're in the way. When someone invests 250m euros in a new wind farm above Senj it is unacceptable for us because noise I understood it so, a message sent by politicians because it is the policy in which we experience it. Whether we need it, so I guess we need it and we're all ready and there are even whole policies that talk about it and the platforms that come about, but when we need to realize there's nothing there and when it's done, it's not right. When we talk about HEP he has his minuses and really some settlements look bad to us, like Venezuela, you allow in HEP, not you as a secretary of state, but people allow these pillars to hang on to anything, from these cables I don't know about telephony, all other species etc., time is more modern. I think we can do rights here, but it's up to them to work both on distribution and transfer, etc., but we talk about HEP in general as a good public firm that owns the state, which works well, which makes profit in this way to me is humiliating indeed. And to say that there's nothing wrong with it and that we're willing to destroy it just to make it look good here. It's bad, gentlemen. I support this law because it brings what we need, a modern way of thinking. in modern times, and what people have shown as a need to solve [[Intruder: Thank you time.]] And that part. [[Time, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59298	We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, if I have seen correctly, is that, Mr. Pavic, the truth of the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Pavić, no, well, that's good. Mrs. Katarina Peovic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59299	Well, yeah, let's stick to some facts this is who's against, who's commenting on the law, who's, who's got any percentages in the election, I mean, these are all topics that serve you not to answer specific questions, let's be specific. Slovenia and Hungary failed to adhere to the alleged unsatisfactory and necessary provisions that the system operator had transferred from d.o.o. in d.d., in the stock company. Why do we stick to it as a drunk float, interpret it with some authentic translation of a directive, make up excuses that a successful firm and here's something we can agree on is a really successful firm, changes by principles that are not at all clear why they are needed unless and then our interpretation becomes very useful and travels the way of this law is not meant to go into the future into some Privatisation. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59300	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59301	I don't know what my colleague Peovic should answer after the secretary of state is in the first reading, in the second reading I have repeated several times, that this law does not bring what you want. And then you call on two examples that are probably close to you, and we have 20 and so many members of this country in the EU or other countries in the world and there are some different rules, I don't understand. Croatia is important to me, and if there is something that we care about, then I guess it's going to show up for a while, but I don't see that story that you're talking about here because it's someone else, so we're a little doubtful. And you're saying that we're gonna destroy HEP, and now you're saying it's the best firm, that it's good, so I think it's good, and that 11,000 people are really working to make this system work. The power's out, so we know who we're gonna call, we can't take two hours without power. What are we talking about? And this system is very complex, technically complex, and there's something that needs to be known about it to make it work. And leave those stories for your circles.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59302	Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59303	Thank you, Chairman. You have set out with your presentation in a way that it seemed as if at one point you were telling parliamentary deputies what they might be happy to have electricity in their parliament in the 21st century. And then you're totally the opposite of ending your exposure with this being a modern law that brings a modern way of thinking in modern times. Well, those two things are incompatible to me. And most of all, it is incompatible to me when you, as a prominent HDZ member, say that you care about Croatia because everything you do is, in fact, in complete contrast with concern and concern both for your own state and for its citizens. And to return to the very content of the law, only the letter on the paper looks just fine. The problem is as always its implementation in practice especially in a situation where there is no effective institutional supervision. And for this lack of institutional supervision, the only one and is solely responsible for HDZ. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59304	Thank you, thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59305	Here I will remain my colleague Oreskovic at your claim that this looks good and that this should be accepted, voted, and that we are going further into the development of this electricity market, and all other stories will be checked by citizens for some time, hopefully for the next three years, and we will see who is standing because they are doing it neatly, they did it a few months ago, so you haven't celebrated yourself so that all your criticisms that you have made over the past year simply haven't come across the echo of these citizens you live with here, so they haven't recognized you. Why? Because they recognized someone else, better than you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59306	Next replica, Mr. Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59307	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Mr. Boric, there's only one small time capsule like this. When your party there long, long ago separated the mail and telecommunications and then it was pretty vaguely privatized. And today we have a very pro-pulsive, very high-quality at least so you claim, or at least that's what the market for telecommunications services in Croatia looks like, which the network regulator is watching pretty well, and I think it's a very good battle for the benefit of consumers. So what is the difference between the energy structure and the telecommunications structure in Croatia? Why is it when you privatize Telekom it's good, and when you need to privatize HEP it's not good. Well, I think you're here in one little discourse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59308	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59309	Comrade Dretar, you must know that we in electricity distribution have other operators besides HEP, you know, means that this moment is not as problematic as it is in telecommunications. We're talking here about that basic part, so what HEP is and what he's carrying, which is transfer and distribution and production. First of all, transmission and production should never be controversial distribution, we probably already have other operators if I understand it well. So what we're talking about and what you're saying is that the opposition just can't agree, and the law is good for me because what we've been talking about here for years is, let's say, solarists on these private houses that citizens can use and build for their own network, for their own supply tomorrow, they can put into another network, solve the question and the way that they need to solve it. It's obvious to you that it's not a problem or we vote for this law and we say it's a good thing, we go ahead and do it or we don't vote and we say we stand here and we'll still discuss it. And not to mention all the other moments this law solves because it's obviously entered the space of other policies that are imposed as green and not green, which is why it's problematic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59310	Thank you very much. - Mrs. Crescent. Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59311	Thank you very much. Comrade Boric, you say in your debate that you have spent all of it, and you have not said anything about the law, that we are criticizing, so you have not listened, and you are able to qualify electricity with ideology. You did not listen to me, I asked that, based on this law, to reduce the compensation for citizens because they are not an obligation, just as Spain can reduce Croatia, so we can make it easier for our citizens if the intensity of this law is to make life easier for the citizens. And to correct you, it's not a HEP successful firm because it's earning the profits it's earned from the pockets of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. HEP would have been successful if it had taken advantage of and invested in the security and security of these citizens that they would be able to supply electricity from their own production, so we will not have to pay the Hungarian galloping prices and then have no bread for the child on the table the second day.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59312	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59313	Thank you very much. counterpart Ahmetovic, this law also addresses the issue of billing i.e. The way in which we took a good look at this one, so it clearly says that it will be very clear, accurate and summed up, and I would also like to be lower, probably all of us would welcome it. Whether HEP will do it or not is up to them to think about it. If he's winning this year, he's probably investing in something. I can't say HEP isn't working. I'll talk about islands and solarization of the island. The first solar power plant on the island of Vis, the second one is built on our neighbour island of Cres, I hope tomorrow and in Krk, Rab is also in preparation. So there's a desire that what gives us nature the ability to use it and HEP goes that way. If we're going to make another 10 or 50 of them, it's up to them, if they're going to benefit from that, it's up to them to decide what the accounts are, so they're going to determine that, they're not going to determine this law, and they're not going to say in which piece we're going to determine it here and how many people are going to have an account. I think it's up to us to secure what's on us that we have electricity and that's for sure, and that's what you're saying. Imports only Croatia, imports and other countries [[Intruder: Thank you, thank you, time]] We're not special here. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59314	- Mrs. Crescent. Maric, ma'am. Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59315	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, you are truly a master at twisting words and carrying out lies, and I think you are the champion of the assembly. So, it was very good in the first reading and now talking about solar energy, and here I was just looking at it, and I'm keeping it all together, so this comment, and how do I increase the percentage of roofs in Croatia with solar energy, so I'm going to ask you now what would you recommend or what do you think this law will actually affect that as many individual households decide on an investment called solar panel? I've been doing some kind of calculation for my family where we'd have to invest about 20-30,000 kuna for some kind of... investment for solar panels, and that might not be worth it for another 10 years. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, what will you personally do in your local environment, and how will this law help to make as many solar panels as possible?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59316	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59317	Thank you very much. My colleague, what am I going to do in my local environment? Here I have done as the leader so far preparing to be able to build a solar power plant and look for those who want to and want to invest. HEP has shown interest here, and I would be glad that they do. As far as personal family houses or family houses are concerned, it is up to each of us to assess what he wants, whether he will want to enter this story where there is an aggregater, in which there is a possibility or to deliver energy means or to save and use it only for his own consumption. If there's going to be a company that the secretary of state is talking about, and this law is going to try to organize it as one virtual let's say trade or market, let's call it that, let's call it that, let's call it that, let's say, that kind of energy that should happen, but this law opens it because there's a lot of people talking about it, but when it's going to have to solve it, and it's not technically going to be legal in our context, then it wasn't in that way, that's why this is good. Someone wants to use you for your house, probably you will, but then the Environmental Protection Fund, maybe local self-government, etc., maybe that cost won't be that much for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59318	Thank you, time. Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59319	Your Honor, I'm glad you noticed that we commend good things, but please note that we are prepared to pay attention to certain things that are not good. I agree with counterpart Ahmetovic, it is definitely not an obligation and it would be good to move out of the law since it is not an obligation. Furthermore, in my debate, I have drawn attention to some things that should be done in sublegal acts if we want this law to be enforceable. Unless we do so, the law will not be enforceable, or what is provided for in the law to be in favour of our end-users, consumers will not be able to consume. So I appeal to you, if you've heard what we've been commending, please listen to this where we pray you listen to us, get some things out of the law and suggest to the government and the ministry that the parts that we've turned our attention to are not well defined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59320	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59321	Thank you very much. My colleague Pavić, so we've been praising you for SDP lately because we can see that you can't even count, that you don't even know how many club members you have and that's what you'd be leading, but it's probably going to get rid of that, as this law is going to solve what your fears are because simply if there are instruments here, there are tools, there are obligations and futures and times ahead of us, so let's keep track of it and see if anything is solved or not, there are sublegal acts that will come out of this. What we're going to figure out from here today is what's going to be I don't know 21.1.2024. As far as this law is concerned, can we handle it today? I don't think so, but let's release the system and let this law edit it further, given that it exists, so it's not new, it won't come back up again, it can't be upgraded, so let's let it go and check it out and tell us in two years. You've missed everything as you know it to say no, but let's let that time go, let's not always doubt and insinuate you'll destroy it and you'll do it all wrong. I don't think it's like that. And that's why I support this law and I think it's good and it's good for the citizens. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59322	Thank you, thank you, thank you, yes, you can leave because you're hurting the Rules of Procedure anyway. Mrs Ahmetovic was first.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59323	Thank you very much. Article 238 shall apply from the date of entry into force of this Agreement. The Rules of Procedure, demeaning and insulting here, not holding the subject of the debate itself, since he is unable to discuss the Law on the electricity market, must then be served by verbal acrobatics he learned from his boss, Andrej Plenkovic. Mr. Boric prefers to count his colleagues in HDZ who are involved in numerous public money estrangement affairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59324	Thank you very much. No, I'd, I'd, uh, write here to talk, start talking about another topic that he didn't get a word in if he reported for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. So I should have stopped you at the beginning. I don't, I never do, I won't work with you now because I know that you all use this Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to replicate under this how to say using Article 238. So you said what you wanted, you get a warning, of course, and this one I'll still be tolerated, but I'll decide when I'll stop being tolerated because this Rules of Procedure tells me that I shouldn't be tolerated and let you talk for 30 seconds but stop you right now. Here you go, Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59325	Your Honorary Vice President, respecting your remarks, and I note that Mr. Boris has come to realize that he has made a mistake in giving up his injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59326	You pulled, you pulled, okay. And you didn't take it back, Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59327	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for the violation of the Rules of Procedure and fellow Members Ahmetovic and Mr. Pavic, I have raised my injuries to the Rules of Procedure before that, Article 238. They've found that I don't know how to discuss this law, that I don't know anything about it. I've been discussing this neatly for five minutes and I've had a lot of replicas and I think I've drawn out what's important to you for this debate, and I leave them the details that matter to them. What's important to us, let's see, and this morning I listened to a half-hour fight between my colleagues from the SDP, from the same party that couldn't agree on how many club members they had. And tomorrow they'd be running the country, so that's not how it works. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59328	Thank you very much, it was a replica, it was a replica you know you have a warning. So we have two warnings, one was Skoro, but the breach of the Rules of Procedure was withdrawn and nothing was actually said. And now it is Mrs Dalia Oreshkovic's turn, not with the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but with her debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59329	Thank you, Chairman. My fellow MPs and MPs, so I wonder if there is any need to expose this individuality and continue to discuss this law because listening to my colleague, Boric, it turns out that both with the law and with the electricity supply system and with the way in which the entire Croatian electricity works is all in the best order, so perhaps we should all leave it to HDZ together to manage and run this country on our own without any opposition intervention until the ship finally fails and sinks to the end. But since nature doesn't let me leave it all to chance, I'm still going to say a few things on the subject of this law. So through 3 specific topics I will try to problem whether Croatia is a legal state, whether it is a social state as prescribed by the Constitution and whether it is market-oriented as it should also be under the Constitution. And these three topics I'm going to try to connect with three main objectives that the Electricity Market Act should achieve. First of all, the law should ensure production and supply as well as technical security of electricity supply. It does not say anywhere whether it is necessary to provide all together a state-owned company or company of any economic operator that has the right under equal conditions to non-discriminatoryly gain its chance and place under the sun and does not say anywhere that it would ultimately not be in favour of citizens who would get more competitive and cheaper electricity. It's a matter of implementation. Secondly, the proposer’s explanation indicates that this new law aims to stimulate the production of electricity from renewable sources and to increase the use of newer, technically more advanced digital methods of measuring consumption or further implementation of technologically advanced models in all segments of electricity activity. Well, I don't think there's a dispute between parliamentary deputies that we all support these goals. Finally, these objectives should also protect every citizen as a consumer as well as a company so much as will enable more precise tools to measure their personal consumption. Furthermore, the law seeks to ensure that electricity is available in terms of the price for end-users and that those whose electricity is needed to carry out economic activity and for households, therefore the sale of electricity as a public service is defined. In that part, regulators who prescribe certain tariff items also play an important role and then see how the price market actually reflects the economic, economic and social opportunities in the country. This is how we come to this third important pillar of this law, which is the functioning and independence of the regulatory body, namely HER. Now I'm gonna start with the idea of the rule of law. So, first of all, a small one of the crackdowns, so in the opening provisions of this law, it has been indicated that they are being transposed into the legal order of the Republic of Croatia of the relevant EU directive. Standards that are prescribed under this law follow trends, follow the regulation that other Member States have, however, the problem of this law as well as the whole series of other laws is always in its implementation because every law, as well as this new one, is immersed in the existing system and through the work of a number of public authorities and companies that are in this electricity sector, are in the possession of the state, and in all these public bodies there is a partytocrat and disorder. Now that we're talking about the rule of law and when we talk about the independence of regulatory bodies, I believe that we haven't forgotten the affair that we had just months ago when the press columns were actually full of situations that led to the attempt to intervene in the process of appointing members of the HERA administration in a way that puts a person who, in fact, by law in that body shouldn't even sit in it. It was a married couple who were a member of the supervisory board of several HEP companies. In itself, it is a huge problem that speaks about the way it is being cadred in this country, but the particular problem is where and where the fact is that the election process has been delayed for several months. Since I'm running out of time not to get a warning, I'm going to continue right where I left off after my colleague from another club does his exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59330	I didn't understand why you should get a warning, but you have replicas. Mr. Lenart has his first line.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59331	I said I wouldn't get it. Let's stop.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59332	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you mentioned new technologies to measure the availability of electricity, so I would like to turn this through the replica to one case that we have in the City of Kutina about three half, four kilometers from the City of Kutina where a man can't get electricity for 15 years, he can't get a net, he's struggling with solar panels with attempts by the Minister and I don't know who. So HEP isn't able to run a one-mile line and bring the man electrical energy, and today we're in the 21st century when we're talking about new technologies. And I'd just draw attention to this HEP that's a machete to its customers when it's close to them then normally to quickly connect and take the money for it, but here's when a man who's done his working life pays a communal fee and we've been uraging for 15 years can't get electricity. Hep can be ashamed. He's ashamed. Hep can be ashamed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59333	Thank you very much. Answer Mrs. Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59334	Thanks, buddy. ...we're not a legal state if we don't really have independent regulatory bodies, but other than the market-oriented state, we've seen how, according to entrepreneurs, the state works, for example. to wind power plants. And the third topic that you've opened, we're not a social state because this example of yours, and so is the situation that we've seen since the earthquake in the area of Bania, there are not just individual households, but entire areas that have never received their own legal connection to the power grid, which just confirms my theory that this country has double criteria since its beginning. There have always been those citizens of the second order that this state does not see, recognize and take no note of their basic needs, of their rights which are generally guaranteed in the Constitution and well described in the provisions of certain laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59335	Thank you. Mr. Hajdukovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59336	Thank you very much. My colleague Oreskovic, when we talk about electricity, when we talk about end-users or the electricity market, I think that some very important issues have come out of the focus of this debate, which is that we are not protecting the end-user, that we are not providing cheaper or more affordable electricity and I am afraid that energy poor households will become a standard in Croatia. And why I'm going to tell you, the EU has a very ambitious plan to move on to electric vehicles, so in a very short period, electric vehicles will be forced to increase the exponential consumption of electricity. On the other hand, other markets like Africa and Asia, and in particular Africa are growing rapidly and require more and more energy while other countries, like the Kingdom of Morocco, recognize this as their opportunity and invest in electricity production, we are not only not doing it but we are not fighting for both our citizens and for a more affordable electricity price.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59337	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59338	Thanks, buddy. I agree with your principle goal, after all, we are all consumers and we are all in the best interest of a cheaper price of electricity supply services, perhaps we can differ in ways to achieve it. It is possible that this can be achieved through investment by companies owned by the state in new plants, new technologies, new ways of producing electricity, it is possible to leave it to the market. What interests me most as a representative of the Civil-Liberal Option is that we are actually protecting that price in practice, and we cannot protect it until HERA as a regulatory body exercises its powers as it could under the law. Obviously, there are still too many political filtering and political directions that should not be there under the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59339	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. And now the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, Mr Ivo Milatić, will speak on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59340	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of HS. Honorable parliamentary deputies and MPs. I'm obliged to take about five minutes and look back at everything that's been said so far. Here it is persistent to talk about the privatisation of HEP, about changing HEP into a stock company, which is, in fact, the CAPS means that they are regulated activities which in every European civilised country have their own rules in Croatia as well. In a clear and loud manner, in accordance with any legislation in any EU country, the directive said that in which country, according to its own, its regulation on trade law, which legal form will be. Croatia is told it will be d.d. and we're doing it and it's not a topic at all. To say that HEP is incompetent, that it's a stepmother, that a public citizen destroys, that I've heard here now, it just doesn't stand. HEP is a respectable company that is the backbone of the energy system as... electricity in Croatia and we enjoy this blessing that there is HEP and that we were as smart as the state that we preserved HEP. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This government absolutely stands for what Mr. Boric and I and here have all said, that no privatisation of HEP is in question. All of you who care about the privatisation of HEP may think in case you were in a situation, you might think about it, I can't understand it differently now. If we keep saying there's nothing out of it, and you keep imputing us that there's going to be something out of it. That's not gonna happen. As for the topic that some lobbyists, that my minister is connected to some lobbyists, something that we're talking about? About these 25 per cent profits, it was made in the government of Zoran Milanovic in the ministry where I was working at the time, which some people there signed some of those contracts. What did Tomislav Ćorić or anyone in his family have to do with it? I'm asking you here now, let's stop putting people ad-hominem in a context that has nothing to do with them. We look at the premium system that we are now working on, which will receive approval from the EU in the next day, what yields have we foreseen? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So people have to have some interest in doing that. So as far as that goes, this law is all we've said many times. So absolutely pro-pulsed for citizens and for entrepreneurship that citizens can really start making money from their roof, even if they didn't have the means to make an installation, because, according to the ESCO model through the aggregater that someone else can do it for him, so they can cut their own account, the entrepreneur can do the same, the funds are ready and now they're generous, they'll be even more generous to finance it. To say that we, that we are importers of electricity. We import, unfortunately what we have to import, but we are also exporters of electricity, but our goal is to make what is done in Croatia in Croatia. Who will own these power plants, clearly not everything will be HEP, that it will be some kind of private and other persons, but that is not the problem at all, most importantly that this plant is in Croatia, that this production is in Croatia, that it is in the Croatian balance sheet, that God forbid any problem, such as Covid, any disturbance, these plants are in Croatia, production will be Croatian production. This is the behaviour of a responsible state, the responsible state must think about creating production and, preferably, becoming exporters of green energy and becoming exporters of green energy. Remember, here, you can laugh at me here now, but in 7, 8 years Croatia will be a serious exporter of green energy. This law will make it possible. If there is an administration that will not comply with this Act, then I cannot guarantee it, but while this administration is in power, it will be handled. To say that Croatia does not have an independent regulator? It's declassified. Croatia has an energy regulatory agency that corresponds to this esteemed House and the only court. The Ministry can't judge her, she's independent. What we all want her to do more, to be more active, there we can agree on, I'll see in the report what the government wrote on the report. But she's independent and she has to be independent.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59341	Well, thank you very much. A few replicas, the first replica was asked for by Mrs. Crescent. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59342	Let's do it in a row. So you're saying, that's the civilization rules for the CAPS to go to d.d. from d.o.o., and so is Croatia, you accuse us of imputing your privatisation for no reason. The law imposes, without a valid and visible reason, the transition of HEP from the current organisation of a limited liability society to a stock company with an unconvinced explanation that it is a translation and that we stick to some translation that is authentic, despite the fact that the EU has no objections to the current legal structure of the CAPS. So why don't Hungary and Slovenia have to, why do we have to? You can't give us an explanation that these are civilized rules and that we're writing down something that doesn't exist. We're literally reading the law. If countries like Slovenia and Hungary didn't do it, why are we doing it? It is a logical conclusion that is imposed, if the CAPS and the rest of HEP come into financial difficulties, and it seems that's exactly what they're trying to achieve. will therefore be reformed to d.d. in the target logical conclusion [[Thank you. Time.]] on the need for recapitalisation. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59343	Please respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59344	So you're suggesting to me that we should have ignored that in the directive, the regulation already says everything, waited for official injury, waited for fines from the EU commission, then only to change it in law? And why don't you do it as soon as it's neat in the directive, in all other things, clear as day? Why don't you do it right now? Slovenians, Hungarians did what they were meant to do. Every country has been made what is reflected in the concept of the whole state, as societies function, you will now tell me here that d.o.o. better shape and safer for the citizen and for the HOPS as an independent regulator than d.d. I disagree with you. I'm not a graduate lawyer, but I know something about the law. d.d. It's better and it's no hide-and-seek game, so you can't d.d. Sell without its owner, and the owner is owned by the state. State, this House must decide if it will happen. Well, that's out of the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59345	Thank you, time. Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59346	Dear secretary, not only in the case of this law, I am generally threatened with thoughts and situations when it comes to the new law, but in fact we're trying to bring it all together into some kind of history, which was once and what used to happen. When we pass a new law, we must take care of what happens because we bring it to the future and try to personally, and most of our colleagues focus on it and concentrate on talking about the future. I turned my attention to some things when I had my own debate, and I'm going to draw attention to one more thing, and it's about the social and the energy poor households again. It is that I propose, I suggest that the sublaws try to find a measure to which electricity is paid to those socially endangered households. It is that it could happen, given that consumption is greater or less than certain parts of the city or settlements, that energy is consumed unintendedly, not for what it should be spent on. That's why I suggest that social services or the Social Services Center... bring it and take care of it. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59347	You made yourself clear. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59348	Here I am, here I absolutely agree with you. Sublegislative acts should make it clear that the truly socially endangered population and energy poverty are refunded and that they are allowed to pay for their energy. And I also agree with you how many of you I realized that you are not allowed to use uncontrollably in such a way that energy is thrown away because someone is paying. I absolutely agree with you, and this clearly needs to be taken into account in sublegal acts that there are certain restrictions, but clearly this should be done in both professional and social terms, all of which are well balanced so that for now it does not turn out that we are going to give something, so that we are also limiting something. In principle, it should be helped, but clearly and prevent abuses from being dealt by, by, by, by, by these HEP counters as it is known to occur in some of our northern counties. That's where I agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59349	- Mrs. Crescent. Nuts.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59350	Thank you, Chairman. Col. Milatić, therefore, as a porcelain tooth cannot be incorporated into the burning flesh, so no word solid law can be incorporated into a dysfunctional system. You say we have an independent regulator. There's nothing independent about being politically involved with that body. Let me read it to you. The chairman of the HERA Steering Council Tomislav Jurekovic was detained and interrogated in USKOK at the end of May as part of an investigation into the "Wind Power Plants" affair as he allegedly affected the company C.E.M.P. Milenko Bashic. So you say HERA matches HS, courts and DORH. She's not responding to anyone because the investigation is stuck somewhere in that case. You say HEP is the backbone of the Croatian power system. Well, it would be great if that were the case. However, we also have headlines that say that HEP chief lobbyed to appoint his close associate's husband in the HERA's administrative council. We have a situation that HEP as a roof company has a whole range of subsidiaries and directors of a roof company, as well as directors of a daughter company are placed exclusively on the political key, and no one responds because the companies of the daughter, the officials of the company are not under the authority of the commission or any other body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59351	Please respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59352	As far as the HERA Board of Directors is concerned, and as regards certain court proceedings or possible proceedings, I don't want to comment, they know the institutions that do this, they will deal with it. As for what we know, and that is that in front of this esteemed home will very soon come the candidate for the chairman of the Governing Council of HERA and you will clearly have the opportunity to discuss it or to set it up or not. I said here that this year as a government we have also shown ourselves on the report on the work of HERA, we expect that what in other sense begins to work, given that certain situations in the energy sector have changed and, as far as HEP personneling is concerned, everything that happens in HEP, as far as I know, is happening in accordance with the law. And now that you think someone's said something about it, we should have some evidence.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59353	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59354	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear Secretary of State, at the end of your presentation, you spoke of being sure that in 7-8. something to be. What I'm sure will be in 7-8. that you will continue to be a secretary of state, and whether or not it will be a different question, but it is not the subject of my reason why I answered but it is the subject of what I asked you on the Legislator's Committee, which is related to the chargers for electric cars and the topic is HEP distribution and I asked you what it is, which is the element because it says that as a distribution system operator has owned or started to develop. So this or he started to develop should somehow be clearly defined in the law what he started to develop and how he started to develop, he began to think or didn't start to think. You yourself are aware that this is a provision that is very difficult.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59355	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59356	As I told you on the board, it was put into law because it really started to develop certain, certain chargers, but I also told the board there was an Alternative Infrastructure Act when it came to this charger and everything else that would go in that section. He's at a public hearing right now. We are a national coordinating body in that law set out, in the sublaw of this law and in the plans that we will make under this law will certainly detail what you are talking about, and here I agree with you that there should then know well what this distributor is really developing and where it stops. And in principle, I suppose you're thinking what I'm thinking that actually suppliers and tomorrow certain entrepreneurs who would deal with only chargers and organize that part should deal with it and, as far as I know, will be engaged because both such regulations will end up being manufactured.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59357	Thank you. Mr. Lenart, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59358	Here's the Honorable Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, you're saying that we're imputing that HEP is a stepmother to some people, yes. The gentleman's name is Marijan Dvorski, the village of Batina in the area of the city of Kutina, there are other cases, that a man who has done his working life and has paid everything he has to pay for and all the utility fees and all the givings he has already lived for 15 years. without electricity, which is very, very difficult for the man who retired. I've tried everything, I've written a representative question to the minister and city administration and HEP, and no one reacts to allow that man to have electricity under the old days, at least there's a street, the name of a few buildings on that street, the street has a perspective for development but there's no electricity. For some dignitaries, there's only one object that pulls wire for miles, and this man here, his whole life, can't get electrical energy. I ask you to try to help this man with your influence. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] I don't care whose credit it is, but let's help this man and those people who are really hard to live on. [[Thank you very much, Mr. Lenart.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59359	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59360	I have nothing to say to you but to be really interested, to ask and personally to tell you what I've learned and what it is, what they've told me and what it can be. I have nothing else to say to you. There's no reason not to believe what you're saying right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59361	Mr. Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59362	Thank you, Vice President. So here's listening to the debate and this part where it's trying to say that this law wants to prepare something for the privatisation of HEP, and then the notion of HEP and the concept of HOPS doesn't differ in these discussions I'm trying to actually figure out why some colleagues are doing it. I want to believe that they are doing it out of ignorance, not on purpose because those who understand what the role of HOPS is, and it is an operator of the system that is in charge of the network and which should provide the exact same conditions of access to that network to all producers were those HEPs or some private, whether they are from Croatia or outside Croatia and so on, it is almost the same as saying that we want to privatise HERU because it must be independent and the HOPS must be independent, and now if we want to make the HOPS function on its own and make decisions on its own, then it seems to me that d.d. of d.o.o. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59363	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59364	Absolutely, you just repeated what I did and in fact I said that the simple regulator must be independent and make him d.d. It won't hurt at all. In a public debate, it was saddened to talk with the unions that the main reason for this struggle was that the union's representative was on the HopS Supervisory Board, and then every six months another union representative was appointed. And that seems to me to be the main stumbling block, who's going to be sitting on the board in front of the workers and who's going to be receiving that fee there. Now suddenly, when I began to communicate publicly, he made a suggestion that who would sit on it all the time. In d.d., there won't be so much of these escapades around administrative and all and there'll be consent and it'll go a little bit, it's going a little slower but more seriously. So it's d.d. Absolutely a solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59365	Mrs. Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59366	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State and in the last debate in the first reading I asked you how to stimulate as many occupied roofs as possible with solar panels, meaning how to stimulate actually a small family, family environment. You told me that the incentives are about 40 to 80%, but I went now a little bit to watch this refers to the installation of a new photovoltaic power plant, with 80% meaning 75,000 kuna if you live in the area of special state care, the first group of islands, etc., and 40% anywhere in Croatia, means 37,500 kuna. So that's for power plants. And what about now with some small family, so with one family that has a consumption of 3 kilowatts, I've calculated well that's about 30,000 kuna investment because you can get a solar panel of 100 watts of 950 kuna. So how about you, like me or anyone else, you're gonna stimulate me to make it worth my while? Not for 10 years how much this would be worth, but for less, how the state would stimulate it. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59367	Thank you. Please respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59368	So here's what I told you and what you said yourself, through the funds, that's the first thing. By the way of funds because then from 7 years of age, it'll be reduced in these who are 80% to 2 years old, these from 40% to 4 years worth the same part. Second, if the family itself doesn't have enough money, then report to the ESCO firm that will do it for them and then that savings will be lower, but there will still be savings and thus the plant will be financed. And after the adoption of this law within 6 months, HERA is obliged to adopt sublegal acts that will regulate the aggregates. The aggregaters will certainly be very interested in interesting citizens to build such facilities on their roofs and to benefit the citizen clearly from this and the aggregater. So the greatest benefit is if you do it yourself and then you give it to the aggregater, but all the combinations contribute to it. that you're benefiting. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59369	Thank you very much. Mrs. Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59370	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State here, I am pleased that because of the public you have once again explained that there is really no fear of privatisation, I do not read it anywhere in the law, it seems to me that in the absence of arguments for any opposition to the law of the opposition has reached for such a thesis. In fact, this law creates assumptions for what awaits us in the future, for the framework legislative framework for energy production and distribution in the conditions that await us in the future and for better use of green energy. And I think the law is really good for everything that awaits us. It also enables small producers to actually be as interested in reaching their private facilities for electricity production as possible. So I think it's something for all our fellow citizens that brings them some kind of bonus in the future and that it's good to go now with a bill like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59371	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59372	Thank you for your replica, because I agree with you exactly. So this law goes in the direction that it allows Croatian citizens and entrepreneurs to participate in the production of their own energy, to sell or use the same energy for themselves or share within the energy community and thus reduce the cost of their electricity that will ultimately raise their standard because then the cost is reduced and their income is raised because we are all here in this home aware that fossil energy must slowly come out and some other that is renewable. This renewable energy will obviously be slowly the same, and all the energy will be more expensive because it is being spent more, but then it needs to be jumped to make its own production actually cheaper. And that's the whole This law. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59373	Mrs. Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59374	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State I welcome your optimism regarding the export of green energy by the Republic of Croatia, but you will have to agree, too, he is illusory as long as we have imports of electricity of 33.9% we cannot talk about some kind of exports, etc. So let's get along. The Croatian power system rests on HEP if we talk about production, we do not produce enough electricity. HEP spends on building a power plant that isn't enough. So it's definitely our own fault that we're not producing enough electricity and we can because HEP's money has, but we're actually forcing our system to import electricity and at extremely high prices to sell to our citizens. So who is speaking from the perspective of citizens, or how are you legally protecting these citizens? Not at all. How do you protect through the system? Not at all. About solars, you encourage large power plants with a capex 30% lower than small producers. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59375	Thank you very much. Please respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59376	Thank you. First of all, the big power plants. So from 2018 to today, there are 120 megawatts of solar plants in Croatia, until then there were 60. Only one large power plant was built and hep's on a 2.5 megawatt vis-à-vis. So much for encouraging big power plants. As far as imports are concerned, imports are necessary for now because we do not have enough production, but HEP clearly invests in renewable sources, invests in all of these projects that it develops, invests in a reversible Blace power plant, clearly that HEP is going in that direction, but this law is not written only for HEP. This law has been written for all investors in Croatia who want to invest. And it's in our interest to encourage other investors to build as many power plants as possible, warehouses, to load the network. We will finance evacuation power lines and trans-stations through MPOs so that my optimism is based on real numbers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59377	Thank you. Mr. Shimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59378	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, here's a classmate, Mrak Taritash, who said you'd be Secretary of State for eight years, which is actually a commendation to you and to everyone who works on the law. So if you're elected Secretary of State, then you're doing a good job. I haven't read anywhere here that this law is done to make HEP or something privatized or convenient, on the contrary, to stimulate the household to produce energy. I am now interested here in ultimately saying how long until 2030 or '50s we will have a ratio of hydro, thermo and renewable energy sources or green energy in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59379	Thank you. Please respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59380	Thank you now so we have in your, plants you have 5200 megawatts of it is hydro 2300, you have on coal 329, thermo this gas and there's around 2000 and classic renewables about 1000 and something. So if we're up by 2030 by 2.5-3000 megawatts, we're up to 8,000 and 300-400-500. Of these new 3,000, it'll all be renewable. And if you're counting on you having a hydra 2000, that's 5, and if you have current renewables 1,000, that's 6. So of the nearly 9,000 megawatts that we should definitely have by 2030, we will certainly have 70 percent and more of the renewable, renewable sources. And what about then, this part that isn't renewable We'll see about that very effectively, won't we? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59381	Thank you very much, thank you, no more replicas for now. Sir, now we move on to, to the final, the closing words of the clubs, the first Mr. Zeljko Pavić is in front of the SDP's Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59382	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, I thank you. First, I would like to commend Mr. Boric for following the situation in the SDP, if he is in a dilemma I would inform him and inform him that the SDP Club still has 32 MPs, so if something is controversial, let us know, we will explain everything. Let's go back to law, yes, no, let's do serious things. We hope that this law will help achieve the objectives defined in the National Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia by 2030. In the context of this law, we must also put a low-carbon development strategy of the Republic of Croatia as well as a law on renewable energy sources and highly efficient cogeneration. We heard just now from the secretary of state that we will have this law soon in the debate, and I think that we will further deepen and strengthen these attitudes that are within the law or law and in connection with the law today and that we will have the opportunity to strengthen what we have spoken today. The complexity of the problem is described by another law defining problems, which is the Law on energy regulation, which has been in force since 2018. It's probably not going to change, it's probably the same thing, so I don't think we're going to change anything here, but what's important is I think we're going to discuss it in the future. What is interesting to us and what we believe is not sufficiently defined are these new regulatory rules that should be more detailedly regulated by end-user and supplier relations and which should provide additional protection and security to end-users. With regard to consumers and their rights and regulatory rules, it is also important that the provision of laws allowing consumers to compare the prices of different suppliers on their own, and thus make decisions better and faster in selecting the supplier that offers the most favourable conditions for the supply of electricity. As regards these provisions of the law, I urge that sublegal acts be defined on which platforms and how users can access these systems and that all costs incurred by end-users may be borne by each supplier in systems showing costs. This is extremely important, and I note this because of the fact that we are often in systems that we use as example. Telecommunications operators' systems happen that not all costs have been made, so ultimately you can't read the right price of the service until you get an account. Here, I appeal to avoid this and that our consumers can have a really full price and all the costs they will have in the event of price comparison between multiple suppliers. It is clear to all of us that without a smart number system of changes in operators within the prescribed deadlines will not be possible or that it will be extremely difficult and I am sorry what, and I have already said in the previous reading when we had this debate that it was not regulated in this law but that it was left to the minister, meaning in fact in the bill... that the introduction of an advanced measurement system will be decided by the Minister by its own decision, and given all the conditions that he needs to consider and everything that needs to be taken into account, I am afraid that it will be a little delayed because everything he needs to look at and collect the data I think he will not collect so quickly. With that decision to be taken, the Minister must also include HERA which should make an economic assessment, so I think we rightly fear that the optimistic deadline within which the operator should be able to change will be nothing, at least for the next few years. Nevertheless, I believe that the provisions that should be advanced and economically profitable for end-users, which are related to energy communities, are good, but these are the provisions through which it is defined among other things that the owner of the share or member of the energy community of citizens may be a natural person, and I have already noted unfortunately that our citizens are not sufficiently informed and we appeal to the secretary again to inform citizens what opportunities they have, how to finance, how to build their own mini power plants and how to build energy plants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59383	Thank you, too. Now Mrs Dalia Oreskovic will speak finally in front of the Centre and GLAS Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59384	Thank you, Chairman. My fellow MPs and MPs. With each law we are discussing, I am focused on the institutional framework for its implementation and on the potential corruptive risks that a particular law hides within itself. The more I advocated in my time to form one body, the more I think it should be a corruption prevention office that would officially be in charge of breaking the law and detecting what might be controversial in its implementation. But since we still do not have such a body, here is how I try to do such a task by myself. When we talk about whether we are a legal state and what our institutional framework is, so all the good goals and all the good wishes that this law intends to achieve in principle should go through the sieve and the solution of the regulatory agencies, which is in this case HERA. How can we trust this HERA if we had the situation I spoke about in the individual speech, how can we say that the regulator is independent and that it corresponds to HS when we had the situation that the Croatian government was late with the process of appointing members of the administration of the regulatory authority and that we can even talk about any notion of the rule of law if we have HS as a legislative body, as a parliament that allowed the Government to violate the laws of its own state by delaying and not implementing the process of elections and appointments in time. So we're not the rule of law. Now the question is, are we a market-oriented state? We're also not because, in order to be able to do so, entrepreneurs should be able to rely on regulations and the system as these regulations function in practice, obviously they can't, this shows the case of the wind power plant. As much as there were some corrupt acts and crimes in this case, it should also be noted that this happened because entrepreneurs could not accomplish what they wanted on a regular basis because, of course, Croatian bureaucracy was difficult. The question arises, did it weigh down on purpose, on purpose, just to force the other side to use some kind of illegal methods? That's what I asked the promoter about, so he defended himself that in that case, the wind power plant there was government, and there was a guy named Zoran Milanovic who signed a contract. And what do we have in this law and how does it harm entrepreneurs and not protect the state? So let's say that in the case of those public procurements, when the state grants approval for the construction of a new production plant, there is a obligation to build something in accordance with the approval granted within 5, 7 or 10 years when they are in the case of a hydropower plant. If that doesn't work, so if the process fails to obtain a local permit, a building permit, a useful permit itself is terminated. I asked the question of what in this case, and we have come to the answer that in fact in contracts that no one controls, so I stress the contracts that a single minister of resolution will sign with potential investors and all others in its content will probably not be made available to the public or very difficult, and the provisions and conclusion of this contract will not be in anyone's jurisdiction to intervene on time. After 5, 7 or 10 years, I asked what would happen, if any future minister would say it's none of my business, that's the problem of some former minister, some earlier government. The answer given by the promoter that everything that was built in the meantime until the moment the contract was terminated will remain owned by the Republic of Croatia, does not seem to me to be a good enough answer. I believe that the law should have built-in mechanisms to say what the contract specifically must contain so that we don't have new crimes on the burden of a minister today and ultimately, just a facility that would remain owned by the state does not mean that the state benefits from it. There may be so much damage that production won't be, and maintenance costs will be. And the third topic we talked about was whether the state is a social state. Therefore, in this Law there are a whole series of mechanisms, among other things, protection against social poverty, banning the suspension of electricity to the user when he is a socially endangered category of which, according to certain criteria, the ministry responsible for social care makes its decision. The problem is that certain parts of the system do not communicate well with each other, and these decisions are made that a threatened user is not supplying in time to other competent authorities, and then the implementation is being initiated, and in this process the judge Dobrinić was very much talking about, we have a situation that the Croatian legal system does not recognise that the right of consumers is above the rights of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59385	Thank you. Thank you very much. Now, Mrs. President. Ivana Kekin will speak in front of the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club, as well, finally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59386	Thank you. Honorable chairman, respected MPs and MPs. The new Electricity Market Act certainly brings new market options through the introduction of new activities, and has a positive impact on all end-users that will allow access to current and past data on electricity consumption, allow for changing suppliers within 24 hours, enable a tool to compare multiple suppliers, etc. Pre-condition for benefits by the final buyer, so-called The average person can sense are precisely advanced measurement systems and we think it is necessary to edit the article with shorter deadlines. 31. Namely, presently. 31 describes the introduction of an advanced measurement system in a way that indicates that the replacement of conventional numbers will be long, even, therefore a 10-year and complex process, which in reality should not be so. Another area where we see a space for progress and an opportunity for the legislator to show greater determination is the area of energy communities of citizens. The energy communities of the citizens are governed by the article. 26 in a very restrictive way, which was also highlighted by a number of institutions that participated in a public consultation on the proposal for this Law. The question arises, why can the body of the regional self-government unit not be the owner of the share or member of the energy community? A school owned by a city or municipality can, for example, a school that can be located across the road, owned by a county, cannot. We believe that the bodies of the local self-government units should also be the owners of the share in the energy community of citizens. In addition, we hold that St. 21 is an unnecessary regulation of something that will certainly be examined by the local HEP-ODS offices through the development of the elaborates on optimal technical accession solution or by a simple process of issuing electricity consent with the conditions of accession. If there is no real technical reason to limit the power of the production plant, we do not see any reason why it is legally restricted. The 80% limit of the connection force looks arbitrary and as predestination of something that may not have at all a basis from the perspective of technical conditions at a specific location. Finally, the restriction of the action of an energy community of citizens to natural and legal entities that are connected to the same transformer station, which is referred to in Article 20 of the same article, is also one in a series of restrictions suggesting that energy communities are working in accordance with this Act or only for reasons of compliance with EU directives. The provisions do not act in a stimulating and stimulating way for end-users whose concept or idea of an energy community of citizens can be interesting. So, according to the statement, the Green-Left bloc club submitted several amendments to the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59387	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Katarina Peovic will speak in front of the HSS and Workers' Front Club. Also, finally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59388	Here, for the end, I'd just say yes, a few hints. First of all, I would like to replicate to my fellow Boric that the green, on his, is the green left fighting for the panels, and now he does not support the Law, so the energy transition in us doesn't have much to do with the fight against energy poverty. I think when the Green Left speaks about progress and development through solar panels, then first of all it refers to economic development and the fact that we had, here, a panel factory in Novigrad, but it was not competitive, it was not successful because there is no possibility, therefore, of state co-financing intervention and we are uncompetitive in that sense. That would mean green re-industriousization. But the secretary of state said three things that are quite dramatic. So, I'll start at the end. So he said literally, and it can illustrate to us what modus operandi applies to the adoption of this Law. I'm sorry he's not here, and it's very important, so his statement here publicly stated that he's been meddling in the issues of the representatives of the HOPS Supervisory Board, I think it's best that the Secretary of State here determines who will represent the workers. Otherwise, for his information, I ask my colleagues to pass on to him, thanks to his illegal interference because of the counterfeiting of decisions to achieve his wishes, a criminal application has been filed. As for his, therefore, accusations that the directive applies only to Croatians, but not to Hungarians and Slovenians, so that only we should move to d.d., and the CAPS should move to d.d. Because Europe allegedly wrote this only to Croatia, so the directive to which it is called in this Act is the EU's Parliament and Council Directive of 5 June 2019. which says about common rules, common rules for the internal electricity market, it is in line with the proposal of this law, so it is amazing that it is said that this is something specific for Croatia, and that Slovenians and Hungarians do not have to introduce it. Then the Secretary of State here also fears that we will get some pucks from Europe, which I must admit reminds me of those fears that pensioners will not receive pensions if we do not enter the EU that was spreading Vesna Pusic at the time, before the EU entry referendum, so it is clean, selling fog, so we did not get any pucks from the EU so that we should transfer HOPS from d.o.o. in d.d., and if we did, then those pucks or those warnings should be seen in the law, we should be shown that. He also said that his colleague Jelkovac and the secretary had nothing to do with privatising that it was only in the absence of a comment on whether or not the opposition objected. I'll just quote you an article. The 104th century of the 14th Law, now that the CAPS is passing from d.o.o. d.d. It becomes much more serious and reads: When agencies use their powers on the basis of item 13. 2. this article may oblige the transmission system operator to agree to one or more of the following, financing by either third party, two constructions by either third party, three to raise the new funds concerned, four to manage the new funds in question. So this article wouldn't be dramatic in case it was about d.o.o. structure, but when it comes to d.d. It is clear that this is where the possibility is routed that if the HEP comes into financial problems, it is decided therefore to go to the capitalisation or that privatisation is introduced into a small door. In any case, I hope that the ruling will support our amendments, so we have submitted two amendments to the two most critical articles, so one is that article. 12th century 4th century, but the second is Art. In the 86th century of the 12th century, these are the articles that are most problematic to us and that is where we submitted the amendments. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59389	You, too. And in the end is Mr. Miro Totgergeli, who will speak finally in front of the HDZ Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59390	Thank you, Vice President HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate, a colleague and a colleague. Most of the debates today, which was here on behalf of the clubs, spoke more and more positively about this final proposal of the Electricity Market Act and supported the adoption of such a law. On the other hand, we had individual discussions that went in the direction where the security of the supply of electricity was alleged to be at risk. That's what I have to refer to because I think that's what comes from the fact that you're looking at HEP as maybe 20 years ago and over as if you've been through these last 20 years. We have not already had the introduction of a market principle in the sale of electricity and in fact the lack of understanding which parts are within HEP. Often HEP connects together with both HOPS and HEP ODS without being different from exactly what is being discussed and at what point. So, HEP as HEP d.d. It also owns a network and production capacity and which is HEP's. On the other hand, HEP ODS, that was our goal, needs to be an independent distribution network operator, and HOPS is an independent transmission network operator. And as such an independent operator, it is required to provide the exact same services and HEP’s production capacities and other production capacities. It is also entirely independent to provide all customers with the same services. The same goes for HEP ODS. And then when this privatisation story starts, so it's completely insane to think about that the HOPS could be privatized because what I've already said would be the same as going to privatize to HERA because HERA is an independent body that has its own role, so is the independent body of HOPS, so is the independent body of HEP ODS. In the debate in the first reading, I even said it would be good if HEP ODS became d.d. Because then he would be even more independent of the parent company itself, HEP d.d., as far as management is concerned, means on his own, he would be making more independent investment decisions in his own network, maintaining the network, and everything is going on in the direction that the fee for the network is actually as small as possible and the service as possible. And when you get a little better into all the regulations, all of our laws that we've been passing all the time in the last 20 years. In fact no matter who the governments were going in this direction to HEP d.d. be the one having production, and HEP ODS and HOPS to be operators that are independent and really provide these services equally for all participants in the energy market or the energy sector. On the other hand, the supplier who actually sells electricity to the final buyer can obtain that energy anywhere in the world, so it is not necessary and is not forced to buy energy exclusively and from HEP alone, means from the production capacity of HEP. Thus, if he can find cheaper electricity on the market, he buys it and that energy will enter as imports to the Republic of Croatia. To talk about having violated the security of supply is actually totally wrong. First, in fact, we insult those several hundred quality engineers who work both in the CAPS and HEP ODS, and in the production capacities of HEP for many years and who are not actually members of any party or are members of both HDZ and SDP, and maybe now and we can! And I don't know who they all don't, so they put them in some context story of what happens sometimes in society and where we have certain anomalies is actually insane and meaningless and in some way throws them away at the honest work they've been working for many years to keep both the network and the system to be both quality and to manage to get over any possible events that can happen to us like this was when there was an earthquake and they were up to a long night on the ground to get the electricity back to the customers as soon as possible. This law, in the end, I will conclude because I see time running out, this law is a modern law, I have already said that the HDZ Club supports such a bill, allows us to do what we have decided, which is to go towards building capacity from renewable energy sources to do so in the coming time and to achieve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59391	I will conclude the debate for both of you, and we will vote when the conditions are met. We move to the next item of the agenda is: - Final proposal of the Law on certain aspects of the contract on the supply of digital content and digital services, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 150 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172 in conjunction with Article 190. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda shall apply to all provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. With us is State Secretary Natasa Mikush Zigman, who, from the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, will maintain the opening word of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59437	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament, I am pleased to have the opportunity to present the Final Proposal of the Law on certain aspects of the contract for the supply of digital content and digital services. Introductoryly, I would like to explain, of course, what is the subject of the regulation of this final bill and what are the reasons for its adoption. Therefore, the subject matter of the final draft law is related to very specific contractual relations which have become extremely relevant today in the rapidly growing era of digitisation. It is, in fact, the legal arrangement of certain aspects of the contract on the supply of digital content and digital services. With this reason, the adoption of this final proposal is, therefore, the transposition of Directive 2019/770 of 20 May 2019 which refers to the two aspects mentioned earlier. What is digital content and what are digital services? So digital content is data produced or delivered digitally, for example, are computer games, apps for mobile phones that we all use, e-books and the like. On the other hand, the digital service is a service that allows the consumer to create, store, process or share data. For example, data storage services in e-cloud or e-cloud. For the first time, the Directive now regulates legal relations that have been regulated at the level of all EU Member States and thus not sufficiently regulated in Croatia, and concerns certain aspects of the contract, therefore, on the supply of digital, digital content or digital services. One of the key factors responsible for the lack of sense of consumer security when buying such content or services is precisely the lack of this one clear framework for digital content or service. For this very reason, many consumers have encountered difficulties with regard to insufficient quality, timely delivery or no supply of digital content or services at all. For example, they may be supplied with the wrong or incorrect digital content or digital service, or they may not be able to access the particular content or service they are looking for, which, of course, may cause financial or non-financial damage. Moreover, given that there were no specific national rules in most Member States and therefore in the Republic of Croatia which would regulate these issues, or even in those segments where these legal arrangements were in some way regulated, differed significantly from the state to the state, and precisely because of these reasons those who place such products and the market, or companies, have generated additional costs for aligning such products to foreign markets, which means, of course, that they could not rely on a harmonised legal framework and that they again had certain costs. In particular, it should be stressed that this Directive is based on the principle of maximum harmonisation. This means that Member States cannot deviate from the requirements set out in the Directive in question and all to ensure the principle of application in all EU Member States. Furthermore, in order for all Member States to commit to making national rules as soon as possible, we are obliged to publish such provisions or laws in order to apply the Directive from 1 January 2022. What does this law bring? The most important newspapers are the following: clear and uniform subjective and objective criteria are first laid down in accordance with which certain digital content or services are considered to be in conformity with the contract, with the contract concluded. Furthermore, rules relating to the mode of delivery of certain content and services and the manner and assumptions of the performance of the contract shall be laid down, depending on the mode of delivery itself. The rights and obligations of traders and consumers and legal consequences shall be prescribed in the event that there is a discrepancy and no supply of digital content or service. The rules shall also be laid down in which conditions may vary the digital content and services in terms of determining the assumptions and conditions under which such a change is permitted. Finally, supervision of the application of this law by the market inspectors of the State Inspectorate, appropriate inspection measures and procedures, as well as sanctions of course applicable in the event of breach of the provisions of this law, is also prescribed. The solutions proposed by this final bill in relation to the solutions set out in the draft law, i.e. from the first reading, are the result of the adopted nomotechnical provisions of the Legislative Committee, which we would like to thank at this time. I would also say that here this morning was held a session of the Committee on Legislatives in this second reading with which the proposal came, which nomtechnically additionally regulates the content of the law itself and would like to say that the Government accepts this nomotechnical proposal. Certain nomotechnical changes have also been observed between the resorial consultations in the government's second reading procedure. Following all of this, we will, on the one hand, carry out timely and full harmonisation with eu legislation. Furthermore, full compliance of some key regulatory aspects will increase legal certainty for our consumers and businesses because harmonised consumer contract law rules in all Member States will facilitate the supply of digital content and digital services, which should naturally result in a stable environment that will contribute to this and make businesses more competitive and that consumers are better protected. Following all of this here, we propose the adoption of this law in HS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59438	Thank you. Stay if you have a series of replicas. Mrs. Andreja Maric's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59439	Thank you very much. Respected secretary of state. Here's the thing about digital content and digital services that I'm interested in is one thing about, and that's a tax on the digital economy. At the beginning of the 5th month, we discussed the proposal of the Law on Tax on Digital Services, and there the government rejected the bill, among other things, by citing that taxation of the digital economy needs to be brought into line at global level, that there are still some ambiguities that threshold is not acceptable, etc. and that the Government is giving support to a new solution to be made globally by the European Commission in June 2021. What information can you give us on this subject, whether a consensus has been reached globally or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59440	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59441	Thank you very much. I cannot give you any concrete information at the beginning since this is the area of tax legislation, so this is not a little different, although of course everything is digital today so that I can only repeat what is said at the time, and that we will certainly try to access such services in a fair way in EU-level talks and tax burden.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59442	Thank you. Mr. Tomislav Okroša.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59443	Thank you. Respected secretary of state. We know that the proposal for this law will lay down rules on the harmonisation of digital content but digital services are also agreed in a way that determines subjective and objective assumptions and deadlines, so here's something more that I'm interested in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59444	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59445	Thank you very much. Yes, subjective and objective assumptions are governed by this law, I can give you an example of each other. Subjective assumptions, pardon objective assumptions are those we consider when certain content and services must objectively comply with what is agreed. For example, you have an app that you buy for a certain number of phone models Iphon or similar and all models or all services must then be consistent with what is expected of that model. The subjective assumption is one that has certain characteristics that the consumer further requests, so if he has requested a larger memory, if he has requested an application with a larger amount of data, therefore this is further requested on what is objectively offered through a particular product and if he has agreed to it then it must be delivered in that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59446	Mr. William Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59447	Thank you, Vice President. Respected secretary of state. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 26. When you talk about the principle of opportunity, I'm curious if, indeed, with some content provider or digital services, it happens that the inspector also determines that after that time of 15 inspections and everything that happened when he decides to press charges or criminal charges, wouldn't that be something different than when individual people file charges? I just want to give an example, let's just say for the Franak case, it didn't pick up individually, it took a lot of time to get that whole thing started, the years.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59448	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59449	Thank you very much for asking. As regards the opportunite, therefore, the State Inspectorate acts as a rule in all its supervisions in a way that first imposes a warning, and if the trader therefore does not act in accordance with that notice, then, of course, there is a misapplication, so that it is uniformly applied to all cases. As far as collective protection is concerned, I must say that, in accordance with the consumer protection law and the government's decision on bodies that can press collective charges, that possibility exists, of course, and if a certain number of consumers decide to file a collective suit, they can do so through those bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59450	Mr. Davor Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59451	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, dear Mrs. Mikush Zigman. One question, just for a second, maybe a little bit out of this. Does the Republic of Croatia, or the Government, the Ministry, and so here are HS digital services, so do we store some very important data for the operation of our entire government, ministries and everything on cloud or cloud servers, and how is protection against the naturally unauthorized use of such data being carried out? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59452	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59453	Thank you very much. The government, or ministry, is using digital services quite extensively. This is especially enhanced by saying during the pandemic period, given that we have kind of accelerated these processes and were forced to switch to digital technologies. A series of meetings took place in an online environment and they are still being held today, so we use services and cloud and this is also being done through the NPOO, so that in fact this digitisation will continue and a series of services is actually being placed at the disposal of citizens through the e-Citizen. Croatia is well recognised at EU level as one of the countries that provides it seems to me at this point about 100 services to our citizens in this way and this will continue as I have said in further investment under the Programme of Recovery and Resistance.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59454	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59455	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, dear secretary of state. So most EU member states define in their legislation in different ways. We decided on a special law, decided to enter into force on January 1, 2022. I am interested in the simple reason and the legal arrangement differs from state to state, and I am interested in whether you have any information as to how many countries have passed a special law or how many countries have put the basic elements of the directive into their legal regulations so far. So, I think it's much better to have a special law, and in this law somehow I commend this article. 26, that's what the principle of opportunity is, which I think is good, we always advocate here on several occasions that it would be good to settle things by talking, so it's good to have it, but this is my question that's addressed to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59456	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59457	Thank you very much. As for the specific number of states that have resolved through the law, here's what I'm going to do, or I'm going to check it out, and we'll let you know later. Of course, we have opted for the implementing regulation for the reason that, as you yourself have stated, regulations and criminal sanctions, and for that reason, our legal arrangement is such that it is more appropriate to resolve these issues precisely through the implementing laws, so that they can be properly applied.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59458	Thank you. Mr. Vice President Miroslav Skoro.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59459	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, I'm going to take off my mask because I have the right to an epidemiology. So, you're saying in addition to this law you mentioned the syntagma that it, this is all happening together for the purpose of raising the competitiveness of companies. Well, the media wrote in the middle of the year that there was a contest for digital transition. It's important in the digital world, we're all in some transition, and even in that digital and there's going to be a 1.14 billion kuna of grants in the range of half a million to 7 million kuna for the processing industry. This transition should be carried out by IT companies in Croatia. Is it true that Croatian IT companies cannot participate in this competition and why?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59460	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59461	Thank you very much for your question. It is a call for the grant issued by our ministry and aimed at strengthening the production capacity of our companies, so it is aimed at production, but with an emphasis on the transition to a digital and green economy, so what we need to think about in terms of encouraging our production is how it is digitised and how it is green. It is not true that IT companies will not have access to EU funds. They have so far used these funds, so there are data that speak in favour of this and through the funds that will be available under the Recovery and Resistance Programme, but also the multiannual financial framework for the period '21-'27. there will be a significant amount of funds available to companies dealing with the digitisation of the process or information both indirectly and directly through the development of software solutions, for example for the state administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59462	Thank you very much. - Mrs. Crescent. Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59463	Good afternoon. Here you would refer to the question already asked by colleague Maric, why are we very interested? Because this law defines what digital services are. Unfortunately, the RF proposal that the government has rejected is to tax large digital giants such as Google, Amazon, Facebook, which is one policy that will obviously be implemented at EU level even though a series of states already have their own tax laws that have already made it possible, our government is just waiting for other things to get rid of it at EU level, so we will accept it and we will be happy to vote for it even though the rulings never vote for our proposals. But what we ask you, more importantly, means this aspect than the aspect of this reciprocity that we say what's good is that our digital companies will have the same operating conditions in Europe, but we have to have this reciprocity, and that's why this law was very important to introduce such a type of tax legislation to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59464	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59465	So I believe that tax, therefore, on the taxation of large enterprises dealing with digital services, will be spoken of in a shorter period of time and in this respected home, of course, when conditions are obtained and when the legislation is prepared. Personally, I think that this issue should be settled whether or not, in a fair way, taxing that kind of business. And what we do with this law is precisely through a clear legal framework that applies equally in all Member States, so it is a directive of maximum harmonisation, we allow our companies, companies that provide such services or such content to have no uncertainty about legal arrangements in other countries and to be treated in the same way, thus reducing their costs and making it easier for consumers to get out.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59466	Thank you. And at the end of the day, Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59467	Thank you, Chairman. Here, I'd like to, in the interest of the public just to clarify some concepts. So EU regulations are those legislative acts that are directly applicable, have direct legal force. The Directives, on the other hand, prescribe at EU level a goal that is intended to be achieved, and national legislation is left at will that this goal will be achieved, so I was drawn to the attention of something you said in your presentation, which is that there was not too much room for manoeuvre in this Directive. On the one hand, it seems logical to me, given the very matter this Directive deals with, on the other hand, I think it is in complete contrast with the fundamental principles of European law. So now, if there is some kind of minimum technicality that should be so uniform throughout the EU, then I don't know why the EU is reaching for the directive at all, why it doesn't bring the regulation itself. That's one question. Can you influence that? The second thing, the problem with this directive is so what does not fall within the area of consumer protection and is lagging behind in the implementation part of Croatia. [[Intruder: Time.]] courts misread EU law. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59468	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59469	Thank you very much for your two questions. As regards Directives and regulations, yes, of course, regulations are directly applicable in the legal system, they are aligned with Directives, however, there are both these and those Directives, so I say, so this is a directive in which maximum harmonisation is applied and which is then transposed into the legal system, so exactly as it does, in which case there is no addition of provisions giving more or less rights or obligations to what the Directive itself prescribes, unless otherwise prescribed by the Directive. So we can distinguish there in some ways two types of acts, i.e. two types of directives and at EU level. For this reason, we were not able to edit this system differently. The other part of the question, I apologize, I haven't, it's already been over, I haven't heard you well here, so maybe, I don't know if it's possible to repeat it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59470	There'll be an opportunity later. Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. You don't have any more replicas. Yes, we're moving on to the MPs' clubs. First. What? Yeah. You're right. Do the committees want to talk? The representatives of the board? No, I don't. We're going to represent clubs. Vice-President Miroslav Škoro in front of the Croatian Sovereigns' Representatives' Club if I am not deceived by the view.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59471	... Thank you, Mr. Vice President. [[Specially enabled.]] Respected secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues. So Internet and digital technologies change the world. They've been doing it radically since the mid-90s, and they're characterized by two key things. The first is an incredible rate of development, and the second is a complete lack or lagging behind the legislative monitoring of the application of new technologies. So the legislation keeps the helmet going for this technology, and we're talking here today about some things that have actually been in circulation for almost 30 years. As legislators in the developed world came across or understood what hit them, an incredible amount of money was generated from which technology giants such as Google, Facebook, Apple and Amazon developed, and some of them had not recovered to this day and would not recover, however, some have even disappeared. Publishing was particularly injured, for example, the sales fee of all general information journals in Croatia in the mid-90s was hundreds of millions of copies, so over 2 hundred, if memory serves me well, in 2016 it was 73.7 million copies, in 2020 42.9 million pieces in Croatia were sold, which is 19% less than 2019. So we can say that in the last 25 years, that drop is greater than 75%. This is a worrying information for those involved in this business when taking into account the amount of advertising space that can be sold from all other revenues. The music industry in the world has been the same since '99. C. of the so-called "Current People's Republic" partial sales revenueed from a very large this, disparity amount. In 1999 it was $23.8 billion and 2020. 4.2 billion dollars according to the FBI's roof organization. Of course, with the gradual regulation of the market, which is what this bill also contributes, as will be the result of tomorrow's debate on the new Copyright and Related Rights Act, things have been going a little bit better since 2004, as the world has started to protect digitalised recordings that have been incometing $14.6 billion in the past year. However, the overall revenues of the music industry still haven't arrived in 1999 and still, in 2021, $2.1 billion of these revenues were lower than they were in 1999. If you took some kind of rate of revaluation of it all and said that this industry would grow 4% a year, then we could talk about the fact that it was actually achieved 27 or lost, conditionally speaking, 27 billion dollars at that level observed only in the music industry. But those money didn't disappear. These money exists are the only ones still in the pockets of these technological giants that I mentioned at the beginning and no one in the world can dispute, and I wrote about it. So, of course, digitisation also has its positive effects in the 2017 survey 2/3 of Europeans said that these technologies have a positive impact on society, the economy and their own lives, but also most respondents believe that the EU bodies of Member States and businesses should take measures to deal with the consequences of using these technologies. Furthermore, as a result of digitisation and transformation, the processes of strong artificial intelligence and advanced robotics are ongoing, which will have a strong impact throughout society, including productivity, employment, business models and public services, and all this requires consistent public policies. In this sense this Final Proposal of the Law on certain aspects of the contract on the supply of digital content and digital services, this title reminds me incredibly of me as if someone was doing a doctoral dissertation so it's not the Act on Labour, but the law on, you did well this one and congratulations on it. So, it's to say hello. Unfortunately, he is late, and all those who have experienced this transformation in a financial sense, especially in the negative of what I have told you in these two examples, although people probably did not understand me. But the World Economic Forum estimates, and that's important, it's important that we talk about these things, that the total global value of digital transformation for society and industry by 2025 will exceed $100 billion in front of the door. So 1 billion is a million billion, that means 10 to the 12th. It is estimated that the overall economic value of the automation of robot work and autonomous vehicles will be between €6.5 billion and €12 billion annually, including productivity and benefits in areas such as health care and safety. However, these changes and their speed can, with new business models, disrupt existing industries as they have already disrupted or destroyed some industries and simply disrupted the labour market by abolishing many jobs and creating so-called jobs. a digital gap, which is otherwise a term describing this difference in the quality of services and availability in the field of digital technologies. Of the 200 leading digital companies in the world, only 8 are from Europe, the best 15 are from the US and China, and of course Asia is the digital leader in all this. Therefore, although this law improves consumer protection in the digital environment, it should be noted that the problem is much more complex and broader than that. Speaking of jobs, and therefore the labour market, we must bring legal solutions that will help workers acquire the right skills to avoid the spread of the digital gap on the labour market. The lack of digital written labour is obvious, but today 90% of all jobs require a minimum level of digital skills, and demand for digital professionals is growing. However, according to the EU Commission, 44% of the EU population and 37% of the workforce do not have sufficient levels of these skills. In addition, almost half of EU businesses are still not implementing strategies to retrain their workforce. The digital gap of course also feels on the Croatian market IT technology because we are sometimes impressed, which is why I asked you that domestic IT companies are either forgotten or placed in a subordinate position. The media thus wrote in the middle of the year about the digital transition contest, 1.14 billion kuna of grants will be allocated. So, I understand that there are other ways to help and finance, but in this particular case, it is a digital transition, and regardless of what the processing industry is, we are modern and we need to approach the 21st century and IT companies are somehow processing something else, not processing wood but processing human capacities and their.../incomprehensible/... therefore, we cannot participate our IT companies that will conduct this digital transition in this competition. The other problem is so-called. covert employment. I don't know if you know it, but a covert working relationship is a contractual relationship that has a relationship characteristics of a working relationship, so on, for an indefinite period of time, but the employer and the worker represent it as some other type of contractual relationship most often by means of an act contract. This problem is regulated by the amended and updated Income Tax Regulation, which defines the criteria for the existence of a hidden working relationship, which entered into force on 13 January last year. I'm a little fast 'cause I don't have much time anymore. Nevertheless, unlike domestic IT companies, foreign companies can hire a permanent worker in Croatia and without establishing a working relationship. It's like that if they're registered somewhere abroad so I can take an engineer into so-called. employment itself is eaten or in a flat-rate and are then, of course, far less burdened by taxes, by contributing to pension and health insurance in the payment of his fee. The trick is in net pay, for 10,000 kuna the company pays 18,500 kuna, and the stranger comes to do it this way, so it permanently binds him and our regulation would oblige him to hire him so we have to keep our employee who pays 16.666 kuna, which means that in that case he has a 66% higher salary than he does otherwise. Well, in the end, I didn't mention this cyber security either, and I didn't, and we could talk about it long and wide, but time is the way it is. We should welcome and support every initiative to regulate the digital market and so on, but all together we need to roll up sleeves and even more intensely and more intensely dive into this whole area and protect consumers, users, workers, but also industry, of course, from possible abuses of modern digital technology, which we will talk a lot about in the assembly this week. I think it's our chance, I think it's an opportunity because every monopoly can be punished in some way, but a monopoly of intellectual property is a monopoly of intellectual property. If someone has brains and has intelligence and can be competitive, and I think we can do it then they need to be maximum protected from the position of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59472	You, too. Now Mr. Tomislav Okroša will speak in front of the club of representatives, and excuse me, Mr. Zeljko Pavić will speak in front of SDP's Club of Representatives. The whole problem with two Pavics.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59473	Honorable President, respected secretary with associate, nice greeting, here I am today going to try to make a summary since I think that this law that we're about to pass, we should actually bring it before and before, I'm going to remind just that it was very easy to regulate this market before I think that market was very easy to regulate 15-ac, 20 years ago when we had one data carrier, when we had one data format and we had very few devices that were actually... digital content. This is the year 2021. It's extremely complex, extremely demanding, I've already talked about data carriers last time and about what's written in the law where more CDs are mentioned, DVDs are actually mentioned to data carriers that we can still use on music hearing devices, but on computers we don't have any more, here's not even my computer anymore. We have electronic memory, USB contacts, so we should work on that part a little bit more on the bill's work, but definitely what it says in the law and intensity, I think it's good and good quality. I'm sorry that Mr. Škoro left, things don't exactly stand so that you can hire a man from Croatia and not pay taxes. Namely, the tax is paid still in the country where the fee is paid, and our worker who lives here in Croatia if he wants to have pension insurance, if he wants to have health insurance, should pay it out of his pocket. So, anyway, he's out of those funds that he got from that let's call him net that's actually the gross one, so then he's out of money so that's not exactly the kind of thing, but that he's going out a lot of money, he's going out. What bothers me more and what we should actually consider more is buying and selling digital content online because it is extremely difficult to control and in principle there is no tax, and we know what law is for all goods that are actually purchased via e-commerce in the world that actually when it comes, I think that now... the limit of everything that comes outside of the EU is actually customs and charged tax. For digital content, unfortunately this is not the case or I don't see how all these channels would be used through which our citizens, our citizens, children buy various digital content from games and beyond. I am pleased that the law also defines the system of penalties and the system of inspections for controls for digital content and if the trader does not respect what needs to be respected that he is really quickly punished, whether these penalties are high enough there is another pair of shoes, it could be discussed, but what we have received and the explanation by the government in interpreting our previous discussions is said that the unique penalty may not be great, but the trader who sells it on the internet in a large number of pieces, and then all of these things are actually multiplied about then again is extremely large for one... which was not good or not good. And I think that we should also go in this direction in our discussions and our discussions and the next versions of this law as well as the dependent laws that will have to be passed or the comparative laws that will regulate and market large platforms, or work with large platforms that are unfortunately here, are not still regulated in Europe, and neither of us know that since last reading we have a promise or a sign that this will be regulated in Europe, and then we will also introduce it into our legal regulation, and then we will all have the opportunity to be tough with regard to one Google, one Yahoo or I don't know which platform that might ensuing someone's eyes and causing some problems in relation to other platforms. What I would like to point out is that the law in part of the supply of electronic content delivered to the products that we already have, not only are mobiles, these are not only computers with new operating systems, these are not just phones with new operating systems, but also various programs on these devices, but also systems or electronic content, digital content that we use on other devices in our daily work in our household is quite sensitive and this is quite demanding, especially because we have a nation that is still not digitally written enough to be able to serve these new devices with these new content in the way it is intended somewhere in the world. I don't know if you've noticed or haven't noticed, but I believe you've got home all right, let's start with TV, have all the smart TVs, and you can basically restore the operating system on TV and TV will have new features that you didn't buy at the start, but since you have a model that you have and you have a new version of software you can pick up that version of software on that TV. But right now, it's not just about the TV, you've got other devices that do that and dishwashers, washing machines. You can make a complete error detection on your home devices via the Internet, and you can also download digital content from the Internet and then restore it all together. If you have the possibility to connect these home appliances to the Internet or if they automatically connect to the Internet, it is highly likely that the repairer will do it online, to inform you here you have a new operating system from today your machine does not have five programs but has 15 programs and of course it is in your interest that this delivery is accurate, that it is quality, that these devices that we have in the house that they work for us and that we have no problems with them because someone has made any software or... in that software. What's also interesting is that part of the delivery for traders who can deliver something that is in the pilot phase or in the test phase, and that we can hardly prove it. We said that it determines the inspection of such a thing if something is wrong or if something doesn't work it will certainly be determined, but you know yourself that when you show up let's start from the game, when some attractive game appears and then the price is extremely high for the first month, two, and then the interest falls. So if you throw a lot of games on the market during that period or if you can sell a lot of digital content for a high price, then all mistakes are corrected and these corrections should be asked whether and how to compensate for the damage to those who bought it when they bought it. We have another moment that is here today, or in the last year, a year and a half of days with us very current, and these are also digital services. All those Zooms we had there when we had people who were sick, who got infected with Covid, they actually had access to an app called Zoom. It's the same digital content or digital service, and we need to see how we're going to charge a fine to traders who sell us a version of software that doesn't work and how and who will assess the damage that's been done if, for example, a video conference in a corporation didn't work at the time when it's due to be done. It's not in the law, of course the law is developing, new digital content is emerging, new cases are emerging, and I hope that such cases will later be taken into account, not only am I not talking now, it's not about Zoom as such, but generally platforms that give us a service to have a video conference online. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59474	Both of you and now Mr. Tomislav Okroša is in front of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59475	... The final proposal of the Law on certain aspects of the contract on the supply of digital content or digital services is set before us by fellow Members of the Assembly, which was created by the transposition of the provisions of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 November 2019 on certain aspects of the contract on the supply of digital content and digital services, etc. [[Specially enabled.]] Directive on digital content or Directive 2019/770. The Digital Content Directive itself is intended to contribute to the proper functioning of the internal market while ensuring a high level of consumer protection by laying down common rules on certain requirements for contracts between traders and consumers on the supply of digital content or digital services, in particular with regard to rules on the compliance of digital content or digital services with the contract, legal means in the event of non-compliance or not delivery, as well as the means of achieving such legal means and the adjustments of digital content or digital service. The adoption of this Directive and the transposition of its provisions into Croatian legislation want to fill the legal gap in EU and its members' legislation on the supply of digital content. The Digital Content Directive refers to the supply of digital content and includes data produced and delivered in digital form, including music, Internet videos and others. Then services enabling the creation, processing or storage of data in a digital format that happens when data are stored in a cloud. It also includes services enabling the exchange of information, such as via Facebook or Youtube and refers to all permanent data carriers that are used exclusively as digital content carriers such as DVDs. The processing of top interpersonal communications services, contract packages and personal data processing are also included in the scope of the Digital Content Directive. By passing this law, we allow the state to reach the need to regulate the aforementioned services. The adoption of this law will also ensure maximum compliance with other EU Member States. However, EU countries are given room to overcome the requirements regarding certain aspects in particular in order to maintain the level of consumer protection that we already apply at national level. By passing this law, we will also strengthen the digital economy of the Republic of Croatia and enable it to interact better with partners in other EU Member States. Furthermore, the uncertainty facing businesses and consumers will be reduced due to the complexity of the right framework and the costs of businesses, which are due to differences in contract law between Member States. In addition, consumer confidence will be increased by ensuring a uniform rule with clear consumer rights. Through this legal framework, we will provide rules relating to contracts for the supply of digital content or digital services. In particular, the rules on compliance with the contract and the remedies for non-compliance or non-delivery of digital content or digital service. The scope of this law refers to any contract in which the trader delivers to the consumer digital content or digital services and the consumer pays or is obliged to pay the price. It shall also apply where the consumer does not pay the price, but delivers or undertakes to supply personal data to the trader unless the personal data supplied are processed exclusively for the purpose of digital content or digital service or for the trader to be in accordance with legal requirements. Another objective this law will achieve is to raise the level of consumer protection and enable them to use digital services more easily and securely. Consumers do not always feel safe in cross-border shopping, especially when buying online. Also, many consumers face difficulties with regard to quality or access to digital content and digital services, e.g. obtain wrong or incorrect digital content, digital service or cannot access the digital content in question, so consumers suffer financial and non-financial damage. By passing this law, we want to implement timely and full harmonisation with European legislation in the field of the supply of digital content and digital services. And our goal is to ensure legal certainty by removing legal gaps, which are related to certain aspects of the contract for the supply of digital content and digital services. Then, we will reduce costs for businesses and increase the level of consumer protection. Overall, consumer confidence will be strengthened and their business activities across the European Union will be stimulated. In addition to the above, this law seeks, with a high level of consumer protection, to achieve the preconditions for a truly unique digital market, which will mean additional opportunities for our companies involved in the digital economy. And final. The Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club will support the Final Proposal for a Law on certain aspects of the Treaty on the supply of digital content and digital services, as stated by the Proposer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59476	Thank you. Mr. William Matula will speak in front of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59477	Thank you, Vice President. State secretaries with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Yes, this is certainly the Law which came from this Directive, which I have fully transposed and it shows that, based on experience, a lot of these details have been elaborated very precisely, in particular these objective requirements regarding compliance with the Treaty of Article 9, and then, before that, subjective requirements regarding compliance in Article 8 are indeed very, very precise mechanisms in which ways can be applied. However, what I did on behalf of the Green-Left Block Club in the last debate probably was not sufficiently precise and how you answered me, which is why I was asking you this question. Namely, I'm interested in cases that are certainly familiar to you, and let's say an example of Epston or that many applications in which our people... develop such applications. [[You don't understand.]] However, you also know that there have been various very problematic things about those who have been knowingly deluded. First, to gain trust, and then at a given moment, they tend you to take 99.99. It's usually some kind of cell phone protection, and it turns out to be some kind of nasty scam. That still hasn't even taken care of Apple yet. But it's clear that it's a fraud and it's still being brought up by the courts right now, and that was a lot of those examples. I, I really am curious now whether it must happen when such a thing happens I really don't know how long it takes, and then can it really only come down to this penalty of 10 to 100 thousand kunas who are aware of someone our own, for our company that works and that provides content and services and trades such a possible mistake even though those mistakes are really well worked out in law. I can't say they didn't, but it also doesn't need something special right now to praise us, but that's good words found because it's all in a directive that looks at it very precisely there already specified. So 10 to 100 thousand kunas can be totally destructive and definitely destroying some small company that happened. I believe that, indeed, in this principle of opportunity and in Article 26, people really need to be given the opportunity to show that it happened, to explain everything and to settle afterwards. But I don't see any reason to say one Epston that people are very complaining about taking 30% of that money continuously after 30% of that money. When the damage happens, he tries to run away from it. Such a huge company why wouldn't it pay 2% of last year's turnover in Croatia? Second, we can't. We can't. We can't. We can't. It seems real to me that it would be any sort of thing, if you think it's maybe 1.5 I don't know or, or, but so far, no one thinks it's necessary, but that it's all settled how you answered me with this fine. Because if there's going to be more of them then it's going to be if it's going to be maximum punishment and I don't know them 100 or a thousand times that much, so it's a bigger punishment. Yeah, I understand that. But if there are really a number of irregularities and a number of malignant software that have appeared and have destroyed a lot of some very, very high-quality and important materials and caused enormous damage, it seems to me that such a relative figure, or relationship of some percentage, would be rational, to make it normal, to be at least just. That's how we're going to submit the amendments, and we're going to see. Yes, much of it is balanced and I believe that then, just as Europe here together with this directive brings something to solve it. I certainly think that those who put into their legislation that possibility to be proportionate to the size and strength of the person who commits the offence, especially if you deliberately commit it, or if you neglect and calculate and I will somehow be able to pay for it. That's the kind of example we have in the other one. I'm talking about this because let's say the issue of unfair commercial practices, how I'm a member of the Committee here and my colleagues, for agriculture and the Agency that's following it, it also seems to me that the big trade chains of some of these things of our symbolic punishments are paying for it. That's less than they normally have normal advertising costs, than I don't know what. And there's one thing about advertising, it's a little different here. It's not all exactly the same. If the agencies do that, and I don't know how long they've been rebelling, they end up paying through court some little number. I know, I'm not talking about taxes. I'm talking about how in such cases it would be good to take one of these percentages of last year's traffic and then help to maybe put these funds into the Venture Capital for future young Startup companies that are just moving and that, among other things, is part of the funding of these Startups in the fight on a big and actually very dangerous digital market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59478	You, too. Ms. Marijana Puljak will now speak on behalf of the representative, the representative of the Centre and the Voice. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59479	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. So one of the biggest challenges in the future is actually the co-existence of our society or if you want human species with technology. I can feel free to say whether or not it's artificial intelligence, even though artificial intelligence has already been present in our society for the past 50 years. However, here is the development and process power and new systems, whether more and more are actually affecting our lives, and therefore we need to start to regulate and think in time about its impacts on our society, the challenges, in the end we will come up with some ethical issues that need to be addressed. The pandemic has shown us that some services are whether even state institutions that have so far been required on paper with a stamp and signature, so that overnight can be very simple and quickly digitized so that we can switch to the digital world and that we are actually very fast and flexible as a society. We all learn very quickly whether even our youngest ones are not to say, and even the oldest ones learn to baratate very quickly all the devices that allow us to get to the product and services in the digital world. As the world moves forward faster and faster, the legislative framework for this development. In front of us here we now have a law that will enter into force 1. 1. In 2022 and will try to reconcile and remove obstacles between different legislative frameworks within the European Union, so to regulate the rights and obligations of traders, consumers, thus giving additional security to our citizens and consumers so that their purchase of products, the use of services throughout the European Union will therefore be arranged in the same way. This here, therefore, in order to ensure equal regulation of the supply of digital content and services, has been adopted by this Directive which we have heard has been adopted on the basis of the principle of maximum harmonisation, here we are, as a country and Member States cannot quite deviate from the requirements set out in that Directive. So here's how we transpose it into our law and we don't actually have any special objections to its transmission. The regulation of the area in question will therefore ensure the proper functioning of all countries in the same way. Consistency, therefore, introduces rules as we have heard about the compliance of digital content, digital services with the contract, consumer rights, and finally here we have seen who will oversee all this, in which way they will actually control the application of this Act. As the development of IT industry goes quickly forward speaking and the fact that in this law as permanent carriers, something was said by counterpart Pavić, as permanent data carriers mention DVDs, CDs. But here we are now in a situation where you don't have devices that can reproduce content on these DVDs, CDs. So you don't have to buy a laptop that even has DVDs and CDs. Today, more like a permanent data carrier, we mention more and here's the truth, so we mention cloud services more. So all of us are actually online and we need to keep an eye on both levels and levels of protection in such systems. So, what I wanted to say is that we do not have too much opportunity to intervene this Directive we must apply it as it is actually adopted in the European Union. What I wanted to point out is one thing here and in our functioning of the Parliament within the Parliament, when we're talking about DVDs and CDs, you know that here are the bill proposals we're proposing, we must presently burn as proposals to the Parliament on DVDs and CDs. There are some computers around the Parliament in our secretaries that can do this, but here we are as advocates, we can't actually reproduce that DVD, we can't even look at it. We don't have laptops and computers to look at. So let's think about it, I've been making some suggestions to the secretariat about how to get around it. But DVDs and CDs today are no longer actually devices, or you can't use any tools to read their content. So here's a directive, a legislative framework with which we don't really have too many objections to it and we expect its adoption and its application in the next year of 1. January. This is, therefore, because we have not so far had legislation that regulates this area, we will actually apply it, depending on what problems we will encounter in its application and then respond accordingly. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59480	Thank you. The next club of representatives will be that of the Homeland Movement and will be spoken by respected representative Davor Dretar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59481	Thank you very much. Thank you, well-respected chairman, dear Madam Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. At first, I will ask again, hopefully, either in the final address or during this debate, the respected Mrs. Nick Zigman. I know that there was not enough time, only one minute is not enough time to answer one question that I believe is of interest to me, and so is the interest of all of us here and the entire Croatian public. We are aware that we are in moments, at a time in which absolutely high levels of use and digital services and digital content, so of course also by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia, the ministries, and all that is in the function of one state. So, I would only ask for a later explanation, that is, to know which procedures are being carried out or even better which are companies and how our data protects, the data which, of course, can have high or strict confidentiality marks. So, in which they are protected in this virtual world, in so-called Claudu or the Croatian cloud, so that's all I'm interested in, so I'm going to ask Mrs. Nick Zigman to at some point just explain to us how this system of protection works. We also saw here in the assembly during covid when certain MPs and MPs participated in parliamentary debates through various applications. I believe that, and we all know that that is how the meetings of the government and many others were held. So the question is how exposed we are and how anyone, who wants to come up with some valuable or very sensitive data from all of us. Secondly, I would like to take a look at article 24. A directive from which I will only read briefly. Digital content or services are also delivered in a way that the consumer does not pay the trader a cash amount but delivers its personal data. We're here on one fairly slippery ground, because the following text claims that personal data cannot be considered goods. I think there's an EU directive in a lot of coalitions with itself. Namely, if we start from the basic economic definition, the price is the value of the goods or services expressed in money. So if I got something, some value or some service, and I didn't give any money for it, that is, in this case, I gave personal data, then personal data equals money, or goods. We've equidistant personal data with the goods here. Our personal data has its value, they have their confidentiality, and ultimately none of us care about those who might and might abuse them. One brief demonstration of the way large companies use our personal data is a little scary. We don't have to be afraid of some Orwellian approach to the present, but as a small example, all of you in your wallets have at least one consumer card, or a loyalty card of a large trade chain. When you look at the conditions of use inside you all very nice and simply writes. Every time you make a transaction at the register for what you buy you give a loyalty card, you get points you can later replace for a particular product. So, in fact, you get money, you get discounts on accommodation prices with certain tourist agencies that have signed contracts with those chains, signatures for buying furniture, clothes, and health services. So it is quite clear that you are commercializing your personal data at this point, that someone is using them and trading them, or making these respective discounts come true. Now, it seems to me that the EU directive is not exactly accurate because it is clear to all of us that I am just finishing up the way big chains work. Everything you pulled through the register that day in your purchase has been recorded. So, every kind of shampoo, any food or any other product, its grams. Then they follow you in time and the frequency you buy, so they'll smell you through JMBG which age group you belong to. There will be some more information about you, and believe me, with this information, the marketing agency can put together very precise and clear advertising strategies that are very precise for certain age, education or any other part of society. So, the data is the goods, especially the personal ones, and I think there's still a little more to clean up this whole EU directive. Currently, we have also warned about the system of e-citizens, mentioned by a respected counterpart, Pavić. A digital census is under way. Once again, the basic question is, clearly, how certain is the system of e-citizens against some malicious attack by certain individuals or, of course, large associations that could thus enter major associations that could thus enter all these data systems. It is mentioned here both small and medium-sized enterprises mainly from the information sector for which we have seen them offer their digital content and digital services and cross-border from this small Croatia and thank God that it is. They are currently one of the few sectors of the economy that has successfully overcome the Covid crisis. Even more amazingly advanced. The first Croatian unicorn company is Infobip. So it comes from an information mile. Last year we came up with data that she hired 2,000 400 people in 68 offices on six continents. One of their products is also a very successful Andrija. I believe many of you have had a little talk or wrote to Andrija. It's a digital assistant in the fight against the coronary virus platforms that was created with the help of Infobip. But here's the end of it, just for a moment, to get away from this story, I'd like to remind you that all of this that we're talking about is using or selling digital content or digital services at the same time involves the perfect functioning of telecommunications infrastructure. If, at the time of downloading or sending digital content or digital services, instability in the work or complete termination of the company's connection can suffer significant damage. I have tried as much as it is in my humble ability to find it in a directive or in this Law somewhere a provision that happens in case the company loses or is being damaged by financial, damage to reputation or any other damage and in which case these companies can protect themselves or seek protection through the legal system. A few days ago, we also saw a case where the citizen was deceived because it was stated that she installed an app for the trading of crypto currencies and they pose a serious risk today. So once again here from this pay phone, although I am leaving the very form and comment of this law for a moment, I will ask another citizen for a significantly higher level of information responsibility, and I suppose we should all work together, especially here and the people who are here today who present these laws to us at a large and serious increase in information literacy of Croatian citizens or citizens. In any case, such a law is necessary. Absolutely there must be a club representing the Homeland Movement fully supports it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59482	The next Club of Representatives will be the HSS and the Workers' Front, and the respected representative Katarina Peovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59483	Good afternoon, everyone. First of all, we have no problem supporting this law. It would be nice for the ruling to support our law at one time, so I will say something about that law that might be a little more useful to all people in Croatia, which has just been proposed by the Workers' Front and which has been rejected and which is bound by this law. Why? Because this law defines, among other things, what is a digital service which is good. This law means that this Directive of the European Parliament of 2019 on certain aspects of the Treaty on the supply of digital content and digital services is transposed into the Croatian legal system. Rules relating to contracts for the supply of digital content or digital services shall also be laid down, in particular, rules on compliance with the contract and legal means in case of non-compliance or non-delivery of digital content or digital service. So, by definition, you can see that there is a way to protect those who use these digital services here, and that means our digital companies will have the same contractual terms as everyone in Europe that we can say is good. But what would really benefit in this segment and be related to what is here is the legislative interest that means about taxing the profits of digital giants, and here I must say that just because we are coughing, and that we are deciding to wait for this European regulation to come to say so from above, rather than introducing our tax on digital giants, we are losing at least 300 million kuna in the budget in the next two years when we cannot expect that tax to be introduced. Once introduced at European Union level, then we can expect the old good habit of spilling such a thing into our landscapes even though many countries have independently introduced this tax on the profit of digital giants. The digital corporations have otherwise evaluated that we all know that in the world's largest companies in the last two decades, and it's interesting that the global crisis associated with Covid-19 has not only not only affected them, but in the second quarter of 2020, the Amazon recorded an increase in income of 40%. Large digital companies are otherwise champions in tax evasion. Tax frauds such as double Irish and Lux Leaks have been known to include prominent politicians such as Jean Claude Juncker. We usually talk about domestic corruption here, the problem of domestic corruption as if corruption does not exist in Europe. Here are the prominent characters like Jean Cloude Juncker who participated in one of the biggest frauds through the annual tax protection of hundreds of billions of corporate American dollars. According to the 2018 European Parliament's Special Committee on Financial Crime, Apple probably paid only 0.7 profit taxes in the period 2015 to 2017 in the European Union. Between 2010 and 2019, 6 digital giants were abroad, so outside the United States reported over 700 billion dollars in profits, but only paid about 60 billion euros in taxes abroad. According to the 2018 European Commission, digital companies are taxed at an average rate of 9.5% in the European Union and for traditional companies at 23%. It's not just about illegal tax evasion, it's often about completely legal forms of protection so digital giants because of the outdated principles of taxation based on business models from the early 20th century. The right of the State to tax the profits of the company is linked to the physical presence of a company or branch in a particular country until the generation of values is physically limited. And that means the foundation of that tax fraud, which is not actually restricted by law, is not legally prohibited. Therefore, in this Law, it is good to define what is under the quotes “digital service. ” The digital service is a service which allows the consumer to create or access digital data processing and storage, or services enabling sharing or any other interaction with data in a digital format created throughout the consumer or other users of that service. It's great to have this definition because we need it to come to our sense in the future that digital services are also a win and that's a pretty high profit of digital giants, and that profit is not taxed in Croatia, which is, for example, in France, Italy, Austria, Great Britain, Poland and other countries. The Republic of Croatia has decided mostly positively on the EU's initial proposal for a directive to tax digital giants. To date, however, no concrete proposal for a proposal for a tax on digital services has been adopted, except for a proposal from the Workers' Front that has been rejected. This would mean what would really bring some effect on those who use these digital services in Croatia. It's three types of mostly these digital services. First, advertising services aimed at interface users. So we all use Facebook that uses our interest in this social network so we're bombed by ads. No one who came on Facebook came to Facebook for an ad, but that's to say the price we pay to use that network. Other services are services of intervention, meaning making interfaces available to users either because of the connection of users and their interactions, whether because of the exchange of goods or services between users, or the third is the sale of data on users of interfaces. It also means Facebook is selling our data to a third party. It's not that we're coming there for that, but that's how we say the collateral sacrifice of our interest in socialism on that network. It would certainly not mean this proposal either, nor the EU Directive, nor did ours go towards taxing these revenues from small and developmental digital companies, but what will come in the form of this tax that our ruling will accept when it comes from above that it should certainly refer to companies with an annual income of over 750m euros globally and annual incomes, we assume, too, to reflect this annual revenue from taxable digital services with source in Croatia. So we put that border of over $1.1 million. Similar suggestions have been made in other countries. So our proposal was that the tax rate was 7% of gross income if the company achieved a tax period of one calendar year with digital services whose source is in Croatia. It's possible that this tax will be even bigger when it comes to it. Because of the introduction of this tax certainly once again to point out we have lost, or not to introduce this tax, we have lost about 150 million kuna a year. The meeting was scheduled to take place in Europe on 1 July and on this topic the deadline for reaching an international consensus with the OECD from the end of 2020 was extended until mid-2020 and should be implemented already in June. But it is obvious that only in July will it be presented a proposal on the digital intrusion that it will all be delayed. The deadline for the implementation of this proposal means at European level we can assume that the earliest will be January 1, 2023, so only in two years in which we will surely lose 300 million kuna in this way. And here, you would appeal to the laws that we get here which are a clear copy of the European directives to bring such laws with a little bit more courage, means that at least in those laws we can put something that is specific, so useful for us and not just to go along a line that is classic and frequent and such opportunism in which we simply adapt to what comes from the European Union. We could have been classified among those countries that introduced the tax. That wouldn't be any drama. I mean, even the evolution of the ruling was pretty much unacceptable that we could expect sanctions. So those sanctions didn't get other countries, I don't know why we'd get such sanctions? As we have received here on the proposal of this past law in this House some intimidation that we will be exceptional if we do not accept any transfer of HOPS to d.d. From d.o.o. I think we're always afraid that we're going to get some kind of pucks from the European Union. What other countries obviously don't get, why should we get them? But I guess that's the way of intimidation in which our rulings achieve some kind of social consensus about there being no other way. That's probably what we'll come up with on the subject and the introduction of the euro, there's no other way. We simply need to adapt to what we are offered and stay at the beginning of Europe. The aim of the legislation would certainly be to ensure a more uniform taxation of small and large digital enterprises, so I call for such legislative proposals to be agreed on in this regard as well. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59484	Now we're moving on to an individual debate. The first one will be spoken by a respected representative of Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59485	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. In our second reading, the final draft law on certain aspects of the Treaty on the supply of digital content and digital services is before us. As in our first reading of this Law, we discussed and discussed actually affirmatively, including that we needed such a law. Likewise, we have concluded that, in a certain way, the European Union Directive has been installed that Croatia, like most EU members, does not have a specific national legislation, that we are making this law for the first time, to go through one of those middle lines. Let's take the first time, let's have the law, put it into practice, it goes into effect on 1 January 2022, and then we'll see in application if there are any problems and we'll assume we'll do changes and additions to the law, but let's give an opportunity to actually apply for the simple reason that we haven't had it in a certain way regulated. There's this single clip or curse that God gave you to live in interesting times. We can't complain that we don't live in interesting times, we can't complain that the changes are really everyday for the simple reason that this corona is who really is one big accident has come up and shown the way we all work together. Look at how we work even in this assembly. We're all on smartphones or pills or computers. We're all getting information in a timely manner now. And what used to freak me out a little bit more now I guess I'm used to each and every one of us taking that information for granted as if the information we're getting is a fact. So it is good that this law also defines the harmonisation of digital content and digital services with the contract and those changes in content that will be. I've commended myself. I've never had a problem commending. You have an article 26 that is very rare in our legislation to meet, which is the principle of opportunity. We'll be here when we discuss some kind of inspection, some sort of criminal provision, we'll all advocate that we should give it a little time, that we should talk, give it a chance. But the one applying the law, when he takes the law in front of him, does not have that opportunity defined in the law. This law has this principle of opportunity and I think it's good and that it might be one model that we have in some other laws. Because you can go with an axe to solve the problem never solve the problem but create a new problem. It's good, and I think it's okay. But somehow I think that we should be in place so that we can really see the real elements of this Law, and these are consumer rights in the event of non-compliance or non-delivery, and by means of the exercise of those rights. Every time we discuss laws, we forget what the meaning of these laws is. Well, it's not the sense of the law that someone writes them, that we're discussing them, so there's still a little bit of a fight here and there's some little heated passion of the law that should be simple to apply, that we know what the ultimate goal is, that always these laws protect us all, that they protect the citizens of the Republic in a way that it can really be maximum. You look at what's happening to all of us, I, of course, always like to tell some stories. I accidentally went to see this summer. I was interested in copper dishes. I can't open anything on my laptop right now. If anyone needs copper dishes, they can come to me freely, I know where you have both large and small and medium and like this, which is at a price. Because now I'm just clicking on those 'cause I can't watch it anymore. It's a reality. So the reality is where you actually live one life and you can no longer live that life independently of everyone else. So as soon as you turn on your smart cell phone, as soon as you turn on your laptop, as soon as you turn on your tablet and somewhere you want to get some sort of information you want right now, some big brother or some imaginary guy who lives in Claude knows that you were looking for it that day. And every time he comes, you'll get that information. But that's what we live in, and I'm talking about this law affirmably. I really think he's going to sort this out in a certain way, and how it's really going to be, we're going to see.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59486	We have two replicas. The first is the respected Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59487	Dear MPs, let me help you with something. The next time you look for a rosfrais dish of eighteen ten, then turn on the anonymous surfing and you will no longer be offered these messages that are now appearing. But I wanted to ask you a question. In fact, you mentioned digital services, that's what I was talking about about digital services. However, this law does not cover an assessment of the damage incurred if that digital service is delivered or not delivered at all. Where are we gonna deal with this? In court? It's a little late for you. That's why I brought it up. We need to think about it, because people who use digital services I mentioned specific conferences, video conferences if video conferences can't be held, if the corporation has a problem, they didn't make the conclusions that they were supposed to make, they're going to lose on the stocks, I have no idea what they're going to lose on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59488	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59489	Thank you very much and thank you very much for your replica. So it's really a new world, a new way of working and a new way of life. And for that we must be prepared. I think this law is just one small step on that trail. All of it, it would be good if everything in the debate had been and what we warned the Proposer had accepted. The promoter accepted a series of remarks that were in the first reading, but somehow I have a feeling that the motionary, or resolute ministry went in the middle, that there was no such thing as someone but said some courage to go a little harder for the simple reason that it would give this law a chance to go live and see what we really, in real life. It's not my place to be a lawyer and defend them, but I'd say the same thing if you were right because it could really be. new problems. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59490	Thank you. The next replica of the respected MP Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59491	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Mrak-Taritash, you have opened one of Pandora's search boxes not only search, but it is enough that the phone is close to you, so that it hears some keywords, so that it does not mean that we are being tapped, but does not mean that we are not being tapped for purpose in order to offer us what they think we need. What is interesting to me and what has attracted my attention in this proposal is inspection surveillance and this is the question of how much our market inspectors are even educated and able to monitor in these cases, and somehow it seems to me that we are burdening them further and perhaps we should consider specializing. Maybe I'm just for this, because I'm afraid market inspectors won't get there no matter how many of them, and they won't be trained enough for this inspection.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59492	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59493	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you have opened one topic of inspection and I must admit that I am very happy to talk about it. I'm happy to speak in the context of reality. So, normally we in a lot of laws when we don't know who to deal with, then we move it to municipal inspectors or communal directors like they're all-powerful and they can deal with anything. Likewise, we give inspection a lot of demanding tasks and a lot of demanding tasks without being sure that they can be done. On the one hand, in order to be able to do them, they must be sufficiently educated, so enough basic education, they must have continued education in order to have new knowledge. And then, then you look at a little of their pay and then you see that there's the pay ratio they have and what they're asking for is absolutely disproportionate. So, at some point, we really need to decide what we really want. If we're going to have good inspectors, that's what we should be investing in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59494	Thank you. The next debate will be respected representatives of Vesna Vucilovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59495	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretary of state with a co-worker, co-worker and fellow MPs. Interestingly, the proposal is to reconciling again with one of the European directives, but in principle very vital and very important. Today all research shows that we often consume at least two screens at the same time. Whether we're addicted to digital content screens in some way we are, but on the other hand, everything depends on how we use them. And if, here I am looking at it from my profession, when I look at students who write papers today, it's much, much easier. When I was in college, we spent hours and hours with the library. Today it is enough to have a good internet connection and access to certain databases and you can write excellent work, final graduate, professional, scientific depends on what you do. What we all take for granted doesn't always have to be that way and it's good that the EU and the Commission have noticed that there are certain considerations and tried to bring order into this. It has simply become inevitable, and as counterpart Mrak-Taritash said, this is just one step towards regulating this very important area. I've got to say, maybe I'm a little out of line, they say I'm a little pedantic, so I have to notice that the directive was supposed to come into force on the 1st of the 2021s, and we're a little late. It's not that much, but there's no reason, I think we can always do it here in the Parliament. And this is still less than in some other cases, but there's no need for that. What we learned during last year in some so-called. new normal circumstances, we learned that we need to be flexible, try to function better, and often in conditions where we don't have too much influence. In this context, this process of providing digital services has accelerated and, of course, the need for ensuring the proper functioning of the EU market has been further demonstrated and, of course, with an emphasis on consumer protection. What has proved to be necessary in many activities is the digitisation of the process not only because of anti- epidemi measures, but because of the monitoring of technological changes, the increase in productivity. We are talking about digitization today, indeed, in all our activities. It is said that we will not be able to raise productivity in agricultural production without new technologies, without digitalising the process and often we also mention digitisation in the context of public administration reform. Here's a quick look at it because it's one of the reasons why investors are bypassing us in a wide port, because it's simply some kind of slow, excessive administration, too many demands that investors don't like very much, and very often that's why they're bypassing us. And digitization should make some positive moves there. In this context, we should also look at all this that we are talking about today, and especially when we talk about data processing and data storage in digital form and as some kind of entrepreneurial opportunity. We already have a number of companies that are right in that segment being imposed on these our spaces, but also wider. And there they recognized some kind of entrepreneurial niche, which is also competitive in the EU market. So all of this needs to be seen in a way positive and from the aspect of consumer protection, but also as an entrepreneurial opportunity for our entrepreneurs who have already responded. I looked back a little bit in the replica here on these inspection controls, and I agree that sometimes we put a little bit of our market inspectors, our inspection forces, on top of it. I hope that they will receive appropriate education so that they can do their job properly in this demanding area.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59496	Thank you. Replica has a respected representative, Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59497	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow MPs, I will look back on that part of your exposure when you said this law provides new opportunities for our young companies dealing with the provision of digital content services by developing applications. It's connected to that basic problem that runs through a whole series of laws. I repeat, it is not a problem in laws, the problem is in implementation and in practice. We've had opportunities to see what it looks like when the government gets some digital content, digital services, platform development. So on these public calls, they get the opportunity to get those companies that are somehow connected to key people in the government or in the system itself, so let's say for the development of important applications, work gets a company that previously dealt with flower arrangements. It's those problems that this law doesn't see, it doesn't even see the directive itself. The problem is he doesn't even see the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59498	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59499	Thank you, dear colleague Oreshkovic. Point to a problem that is clientelism, guessing is something that many are not immune to. I know personally a few people who have been through the vaccination platform wanted to solve the vaccination problem. They checked in, and they didn't get any answers until today. So this platform that's been paid for over 4 million kunas doesn't work. If it had been done by one of the companies in Osijek's software city, I believe it would have worked. These are young entrepreneurs, people unburdened by such things that are very successful in what they do. There are plenty of examples like that in Nov, so the gaming industry, Infobip, not to mention. Unfortunately, with us certain structures are not still immune to this bargaining, and we will have to deal with it for a long number of years, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59500	Thank you. Dear Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59501	Dear MPs, I would first refer to the delivery of digital content. Among other things, there are e-books, what you mentioned earlier. If Chief Lion Nikolajevic Tolstoy knew how many pages of his books students, i.e. students read to write to the Lecter, he would rise again from the grave and write twice to Anna Karenina because everything is poor. And there's the same problem that we haven't even talked about at all what's really about the works that are being povertyed and then delivered, not just these books, but other works, digital programs and other services that are being delivered. And I just wanted to draw attention to the fact that the law says, that is, interpreting the law, that we will actually comply with EU directives and that we will actually be with the supply of digital content the same as all EU members. So entrepreneurs who may have been prevented from coming to Croatia now will no longer have that obstacle will have the same conditions as in any EU country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59502	Dear representative Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59503	Thank you, dear colleague Pavic. You have referred a little bit to this part about e-books and unfortunately we live at a time when in the media we mostly read the titles of students read the content on the Internet, not everyone and then somehow you have those abstracts for each booklet. Who will now read that war and the Tolstoy peace? Well, it's a few books, etc. But here we have to do it alone as parents and as a society, here this year it seems to me like a year of reading books. That's how she was declared. We should promote that, and we Assembly representatives in our children will wake up this kind of love for reading from the young legs, so I guess later they won't succumb to those trends negatively. And as far as entrepreneurs are concerned, I am more genuinely concerned about this 40% increase in electricity that will be negatively reflected in them than they are, I think they're used to competition and they know how to deal with it quite well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59504	The next debate will be the respected representative of Tomislav Okroš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59505	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished State Secretary with an associate, dear colleagues and colleagues. It seems to me that this law has passed a little below the radar of some, because this law is really important and this EU Directive 2019/770 is important for a huge emerging market. Croatia has a great opportunity to develop a business climate for companies dealing with the development of digital services and digital content in this decade. It is also extremely important that Croatian companies have the same contractual conditions in all EU Member States. By passing this law, we allow the state to reach the need to regulate the aforementioned services. This law will also strengthen the digital economy of the Republic of Croatia and allow it to interact better with partners in other EU Member States. I am pleased to have a quality and reasoned discussion on both the parliamentary committees and here in the assembly. It is good that we have recognised the importance of legislative regulation and the introduction of order into this extremely important area of digital content and digital services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59506	The next will speak finally on behalf of SDP's Club of Representatives, respected representative Zeljko Pavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59507	Dear chairman, secretaries with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. I won't be longer since we've already said a lot of things, this is what I meant to say we said on the board, and we said a lot at first reading. It would draw attention to the fact that we have little further to discuss this digital market, that we need to think a little bit about how we will deliver digital content to those who have involved in their production. This is extremely important because if machines that are dependent on these digital content are made in such a way that they cannot receive content in the form that has been delivered or cannot receive on those carriers on which it is delivered, our manufacturers have major problems. So it needs to be settled with starters actually or signed some kind of contract on forms of data carrier that will actually be when you deliver these digital content. We have heard here today a lot of these discussions about both digital content and digital services, and I am glad that we have all been on, on the same track that the law is good, that we should support the adoption of such a law, but also that we have mentioned to Mrs. Secretary and in private discussions and debates in the assembly and on committees that it is not the end and that we will have a lot of work to do, especially here I mentioned this part of the regulation of the supply of these digital services that are very important to us today, and we will still trust them, and we must also make sure that we continue to regulate this digital market if we really want to attract new producers, or new investors, who will be equal to all the rest of the EU. We, as the SDP Representatives' Club, will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59508	And now, finally, on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59509	Thank you to the president, my fellow MPs and MPs. Comrade Okroš, this law has not passed under the radar, it is not even your speech as short as it goes under the radar, the only thing that goes under the radar in Croatia is, it is corruption. And this law is very much touching that question and that problem. Through the question addressed to my colleague, Vucilović, I have already mentioned that very often now that we have finally entered that phase about which Tomislav Karamarko spoke, it is this digitisation, when it is clear that public service will have to increasingly seek the development of some information solutions and applications and address the private sector, we will have again privileged entrepreneurs and privileged companies who may have never even been informed, but they know someone in the resolution ministry who will knock on the door and provide their company with a job as valuable as it should, not as much as it would cost. We've had our chance to watch these kinds of affairs. But in order not to just talk about this corruption, there are other laws and other mechanisms where something more should be said about it. Here she would say something about the very methodology of how regulations and laws are passed. So in the opening question, I said that there is a difference between the regulations that apply at EU level as a law in the Member States and there are directives that allow Member States to define themselves through their laws how the aim of a directive will be achieved. And it's true, there are directives and so on. Directives which are, in fact, the same as the Regulations because Member States allegedly leave little room for manoeuvre to adapt that directive by their provisions to their national legislation. So, first of all, I will stress that I support the EU, support the benefits and benefits that all Member States through this one group have come through, so the entire rule of law is in some way relying on EU liquids, but that does not mean that we have to take everything for granted without thinking or intervention. And since the Republic of Croatia is an equal member of the EU, as it sits in all relevant bodies and our representatives, I see no reason why we should not trouble this topic, because indeed, there is a question of what national parliaments are really asking, for example, if we are here to discuss this law as a law that has to this extent prescribed a directive that we have nothing to do with this law, or that we change it significantly. The question is, then, why do we have directives of this type, why do we need to agree so much where a particular area needs to be harmonised, so much harmonisation between different EU Member States why the regulation is not simply adopted, so the problem is properly solved and then national legislation, national parliaments don't waste their time in vain discussing something that they don't really have any real influence on anymore. I agree that this area could be one of those better addressed by one regulation, the more we apply, among other things, the right of consumers who are particularly protected at EU level. And the fact is that, to illustrate this more vividly, but Croatian citizens have no equal chance of protecting their rights, for example, in relation to some Croatian companies that will develop some applications like they would have, or vice versa, less likely to intervene against large digital giants that operate more or less at the level of the whole world, these are the giants for which the Workers' Front proposed that Taxation Act, but it is not just about taxation at all about those other ways that a single user can protect his rights as a consumer. Surely they would be stronger if the uniform rules and the rules of enforcement and sanctions were valid for, were valid everywhere. So, as I said, my basic problem is that we will have a whole series of laws again that we will accept as the EU says. I'm troublesome to even use a mechanism like this, so why don't our representatives say that in our areas it's much better to cut the road short and bring the regulation right away. And another problem of corruption that we have to solve in some other appropriate way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59510	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the respected secretary of state Natasha Mikush Zigman will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59511	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The esteemed MPs and MPs here I have remained only due to a few answers from the opening debate and allow me a few more things that you encouraged during the debate. As regards the number of Member States which transposed this Directive, 9 have thus far transposed the Directive, 4 members have done so by special regulation. So that was the question in the opening part. We expect, of course, that there will be several more countries that will do so through a special law or some other form of act. On the question of how our data is protected, I am sorry that the representatives who have asked questions here are no longer with us, but I think that to record the debate it is important to say whether, of course, there are regulations and there are institutions dealing with cybersecurity issues. In the applications that I have talked about, for example, in the e-Citizens system, about 100 such services are now available, for data security in these applications are authorised or competent national authorities that run the registers used in these systems and, of course, the Information System Security Office. How do you protect the data? They are protected by encryption systems and, of course, they are used appropriately both hardware and software tools. What is important to say is that, in all interactions on the Internet, of course, and especially with this directive that we have talked about today, it does not all exclude the application of GDPR or the General Data Protection Regulation and, in many places, the directive itself states that, of course, its full application is foreseen. I would also like to recall that in the EU-level process, or in the debate in the Council and the Digital Services Act, this act deals specifically with Internet intermediaries or large service providers in terms of or accommodation on servers or providers of Internet access services, internet platforms, so that these issues will, in a stricter way, be resolved precisely by adopting this act and, of course, by transposing it into national legislation. On this last point, therefore, as pointed out why we adopt laws or why the Directives can be solved by regulations, so I would just like to remind myself that when we have regulations and regulations, we are solving them by law precisely because this law must therefore be resolved by the institutions responsible for the implementation of the Regulation, so to determine which institutions they are and also sanctions in the event of non-compliance with the provisions of such regulations. Finally, with regard to the tax treatment of digital deals that has been repeatedly mentioned, I would remind myself that at OECD level negotiations on a new tax system are under way. It is expected that the elements of this tax system will be completed by October of this year, so very soon and afterwards, a minimum tax rate for such entrepreneurs is introduced at EU level. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59512	Thank you. We have a few replicas. Dear Representative Pavić first.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59513	I wanted to draw attention to another moment that is related to data delivery, but not in terms of software, not in terms of.../incomprehensible/... but precisely data that is later processed in some information systems. In both Croatia and Europe, at the end of the day and in the world, we have a number of institutions or companies dealing with data collection, after which, in some ways, they process them and sell them again to companies that are doing their own reports, doing their own software, doing some sort of analysis, and then after that, they sell it all over again. Now, if the problem arises with the first one who collects data and delivers incorrect data the error or problem will be multipled since it is delivered to n places already in the first step, and then another step to another n times more place. So I would ask you if we would have the opportunity, both of us here in the assembly, to consider how to make control, or... how we define control of the data collection. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59514	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59515	Thank you for your comment. That was no longer a question of comment, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59516	Replica has a respected representative, Opačak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59517	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, here I am a little encouraged by the exposure of my colleague Mrak Taritas, and I would like to hear from my colleague, Vucimilović, and I would like to hear from you. to explain to us both here and in fact to the entire Croatian public the steps you use in the fight for the protection and defence of content data in digital form. In fact, the truth has happened to me personally, and I believe that both you and most of us here to do a particular product is enough to talk about him alone about the proximity of the mobile device and that we are already on the screen during the day. So here's what kind of mechanisms do you use to protect consumers in this sense and have information about the number of inspections on this matter?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59518	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59519	Thank you very much. Well, on the one hand, these are, of course, cybersecurity issues for which my ministry here is not responsible so that in that part I can't answer, but in the consumer it was recently an adoption act and in this esteemed home that just the platforms I was talking about are bound to provide detailed information to consumers themselves and to those who use such platforms or buy in the internet environment. Therefore, consumers need to get full information about what the product is, from which it really buys it, so the platform is used but there needs to be information and who actually puts this service on the platform and thus through one such better informed consumer we believe that they will be better protected. So, I'd say a lot's in it. how much information is actually provided to consumers themselves. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59520	And a replica of the respected representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59521	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate. Well, here it is often mentioned that we are just copying or adopting directives, regulations, etc., and it is forgotten that by actually entering the EU that Croatia was one way and stimulated to invest precisely in digitisation, and here is the money that was being received and still received. Therefore, it was quite a motive to do such a thing and indeed Croatia implements it and in the end it is seen at the time of the pandemic that we used it both in work and in education, and in our work, so also entrepreneurs. Here are these advantages that are one way to forget that a large part has been implemented and that it has been very successful when we look only at the continuation of what has been achieved, and we weren't aware of it ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59522	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59523	That's right, the pandemic has kind of accelerated us in these processes, but digitization is inevitable and it really happens in all segments of our lives, both in the section of trade and in the part of education, in the interaction between administrations and citizens, entrepreneurs. Indeed, and what the Government intends to do, and in the coming period, through additional investment, is to allow for a stronger step towards precisely digital services, according to their safer use, and for this we have ultimately negotiated with the European Commission significant funds under the Recovery and Resistance programme and the Multi-annual Financial Perspective. Here I would just like to thank, in a final way, for the first constructive debate and for all the remarks that have been made and of course the support you have given this regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59524	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59531	We are now going to the next item, which is: - (A) The proposal for a decision to resolve a member of the Competition Protection Council and - B) The proposal for a decision to appoint the President of the Competition Protection Council is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia as the basis of Article. 27. The law on the protection of competition. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economy. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Re-respected Secretary of State Natasha Mikush Zigman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59532	Thank you very much again. Honorable MPs and MPs. Before you are the proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the Council and the appointment of a President of the Competition Protection Council, is it? Okay. [[Intruder Reiner: yes, united it is one point.]] Regulation (EU) No 515/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 (OJ L 348, 30.12.2013, p. 1). The 27th century is 4th century. The Law on the Protection of Competition has been established that the President and other members of the President of the Competition Protection Council shall appoint and resolve HS on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In the process of proposing presidents and members of the Competition Protection Council, the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall publish a public invitation to propose candidates for the President and members. The government thus tasked the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development with implementing the procedure for proposing the President of the Competition Protection Council and for the publication of the call, on 23 June of this year, with three applications. All three applications have been found to be complete and the candidates meet the required conditions. The committee, drawn up by the decision of the Minister of Economy and Sustainable Development, held talks with candidates in August of this year and drew up a report on the public call carried out which was also delivered in the discussion materials in the Assembly. On the basis of the conversation held, Mrs Mirta Kapural, a doctor of science in the field of competition law and a graduate lawyer with a legal exam. The proposed candidate has been working with the Competition Protection Agency since September 2004 and since 25 January 2019. acting as a member of the President of the Competition Protection Council. Given that Mr Mladen Cerovac's current council president has unfortunately passed away, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, held in June of this year, laid down a proposal for a decision to appoint Dr.sc, on the basis of the procedure carried out following the call made. Mr Mirte Kapural, President of the Competition Protection Council. At the same session, the government also established a proposal for a decision to resolve Dr.sc. Mr Mirte Kapural's duties as member of the Council, to whom a duty, as I have said, was appointed in 2019. In accordance with Art. 28th century 3. The Competition Protection Act shall be appointed by the President and the members of the Council for a period of five years and shall be proposed by the order of everything presented to the HS to accept the proposed candidate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59533	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club, the first representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic will speak. He's gone, he's losing his right to debate, and then he'll speak on behalf of the SDP's Club of Representatives, the respected representative Zeljko Pavić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59534	Thank you very much. Here's my chance to say a few words about what actually happened on the board. Here we have here and colleague Marko Pavić was present on the board if I am not mistaken, and what we all agreed was very good that the head of this agency comes from a person coming from the system. Marco, would you please get them there?............................................................................ Everyone agreed that it was very good that a person who was in the system who knew how to work, what was done, and how to keep working was coming to the head of the agency. What's also very good is that everyone... and that we got into our hands really ordinary, and if we were to choose between these people, you'd hardly choose the right person, the best person, based on the tests, later on based on the conversation, it was probably Mrs. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mirte, who I'm guessing will be the head of that agency, which is extremely good. Why am I telling you this? I'm saying this because you know that we've had a very long time in the state institutions of negative selection, that people who learned something from the institutions were leaving, that the ministries were going to the private sector, and in the private sector they were actually achieving and building their careers. If we're going to have a head of state institutions, at the head of state agencies as many quality people as there are... I believe that we will make much faster progress and that the proposals coming from the government will be much better quality, as well as reports from those agencies and from those bodies will also be of quality. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think we were witnesses and those reports we received from the Competition Agency, and we can say that those reports were of great quality even though we didn't get an answer to some of our questions that were related to, to consortiums of some that were created on the market, so there were negative... etc., but I believe, I believe that there will be ways to solve this and that we will have this good report with better or more results than we had before. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59535	On behalf of the representatives of the Green-Left bloc will speak the esteemed representative Ivana Kekin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59536	... says the definition of the quote in the latest annual report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency. [[Last-on speaker]] This is the 2019 report. It says that the responsibility of the Competition Protection Agency is to prevent the prevention, restriction and distortion of competition in the form of prohibited agreements between entrepreneurs and the abuse of the ruling position of entrepreneurs on the market. In its jurisdiction, the ex ante control of the authorisation of the concentration of entrepreneurs is also. The same report also states that the Council collectively decides on matters of competition protection, and that the President is the president of a council representing and representing the Agency and the answer to the legality of its decisions. So it is quite clear that today's appointment decision that we are discussing will actually have far-reaching implications. Since the Government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed a candidate and has been a member of the council since 2019 and has been employed by the Agency for 17 years. She is obviously well aware of the work and jurisdiction of both the agencies and the council itself. For this reason, I would draw attention to some obvious examples of injury to the competition that the agency failed to deal with. For starters, I'd like to mention a case which unlike the agency has been intensively dealing with the media for the past few weeks. It is the award of the frequency concession Radio 101, which was awarded to Ivan Juric Kaćunić through a scandalous decision by the Council on Electronic Media on the basis of a very dubious procedure and offers in which a series of shortcomings have been established. Ivan Jurić Kaćunić, according to the court register, is the nominal owner of the radio, but in fact, what has long been speculated in public, is the owner of all brands of radio stations suspected of hiding ownership. In fact, the law clearly limits multiple ownership of radio stations in the same area of concession precisely to prevent a monopoly on the market. A certain and obvious resourceful Ivan Juric Kaćunić bypassed that restriction in a way that often changes ownership of the media in the court register because it is stated by the Council for Electronic Media evidence of media control. So at first, and apparently the only view of the council, and these agencies have no media monopoly either. A second view can be found that despite the various names, the owner of the stamps for all radio stations suspected of hiding ownership precisely for not believing Ivan Jurić Kaćunić, specifically for them 7, Enter Zagreb, Extra FM, National Radio, Antena, Gold FM, Ultra Split, and Radio Dalmatia. The question arises as to how the agency views the hijacked radio empire as more than indicated the link between the fictitious in the court register of registered owners and the real owner of those radio stations, is it not precisely within the authority of the agency to investigate whether in this case the illegal and illicit concentration of ownership is involved? The question seems particularly appropriate since the Agency appears to be at least 5 years old. familiar with the problematic concentration of ownership of Croatian radio stations. In fact, on several occasions, the agency reviewed the above concentration, but it would mostly end with a truly symbolic fine for Ivan Juric Kacunic and his promise to fix it. However, media reports say the real owner is neither Ivan Juric Kaćunic, so my question today is whether the Competition Protection Agency can respond to the challenges of hiding ownership, and in order to detect the actual concentration of individual entities on the market. There seems to be a similar case on the service market in the waste management sector. We wonder if there is a candidate for the President of the Council of Strength, Courage and Skills to step out of that comfort of the Court Register of Commerce, along with those serious investigations and interruptions of the empire of private monopolys or duopolis that we have in many sectors? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59537	The next one will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, respected representative Miro Totgergeli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59538	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here, as a multi-year member of the Committee on Economy and in this and in the previous meetings, I can say that on that committee, we have often had points related to the Competition Protection Council and through these discussions that we have conducted there, and through those conclusions that we have made, I can conclude that the Competition Protection Council is actually responsible for doing its job. But today this is not a debate on the work of the council, but on these proposals for appointing decisions. Unfortunately, the former president Cerovac, who also had good co-operation with the board, has died and it is logical that the government has initiated a procedure in accordance with the law to propose to HS the decision-making of these decisions. As we have heard from the promoters and the tender has been held, three candidates have been reported, the procedure has established a proposal that is here today ahead of us, and at the last meeting of the Committee on Economy we also had the opportunity to speak to Mrs Mirta Kapural personally, where the representatives of the majority and MPs of the opposition are at the end of the debate and we have concluded that this is a very quality and good solution. So, accordingly, I can only conclude that the HDZ Club will also support the decision to resolve the member and, of course, the decision to appoint the President of the Competition Protection Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59539	Thank you very much. We move to an individual debate, the first one will be spoken by the respected representative Karolina Vidovic Kristo. She's gone, she's losing her right to speak, and then she's going to speak to the esteemed representative Marko Pavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59540	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honors Secretary of State. The pleasure is right after the Committee on Economy, where a colleague of Totgergeli also expressed the position of the HDZ club to speak about this point and support the candidacy of Dr. Mirte Kapural, President of the Competition Protection Council. When we talk about the agency itself, there has been a lot of debate in the Parliament and reports in recent years and what I am pleased about, and here is a colleague named Pavić, who stressed that what is important is that both the government and the opposition agree that the agency needs to be strengthened. The agency became the regulator of the last amendments to the law, and I think we all said in this debate that only 51 were employed and slightly more than 13,14 million kunas that the agency has to make it very powerful and that the agency that is known and for various cases of auto school, the baker's industry, should further provide capacity to ensure the protection of competition. From that point of view, it was a pleasure to see the life reports that came for the application itself and what both the government and the opposition on the board held the same view that it was very good for the person who was going to lead the agency in the future to come from the system. Dr. Kapural is just one of those 17 years in the system, the master's of European studies is 17 years in different structures, she has been very active in international activities as well, and as such we absolutely believe that not only will there be continuity and quality reports that we receive in the Assembly, but also that we could see this in her presentation on the board where she put the programme in three points, primarily on effective implementation and sanctioning, promotion and promotion of rights and competition policy and the Agency's cooperation with all other stakeholders. Perhaps the neglected component that is not so visible from the report is international co-operation, back to the fact that the principal task of the agency is to protect the competition of the common market, so the markets of over 500 million people. And it is this small agency from Croatia that has been recognised internationally among colleagues and that during the Croatian presidency they also had a very successful conference of all similar EU agencies. In conclusion, I believe Dr. Capural gives an additional incentive for the development of an agency that follows two laws, the Law on the Protection of Competition and the Law on Unfair Commercial Practices, that we will also see many and large items that the Agency will be working on in the future. We look forward to monitoring the work and also to strengthening the agency I believe Dr. As far as the people and the development of human competences and capital are concerned, so do the funds. This is a good step, and what I was pleased to do, at least on the board, and I believe that at the final vote it will be so, that this staff solution was practically an agreement of the opposition and the authorities, which just means that the profession clearly showed, stood behind Dr. Kapural and I believe that it will be a very good solution for the development of the Competition Agency in the future term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59541	Thank you very much, and now, finally, on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representative Club, the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59542	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, I will take this opportunity to remind myself that the Competition Protection Agency is one institution that has developed well during the period when it is the same, which makes me the ten-year term chaired by Olga Spevec. As said by the speaker before me, the agency today enjoys a certain reputation at some international level, and I think that we can partly thank this very time when this agency, as a new body in our right system, has set some standards and some rules. I will notice one thing, and that is that Mrs. Spevec was exempt from those proceedings when it was necessary to decide on any question directly or indirectly regarding Agrokor during the period and at a time when the culture of only exemption from the process itself, from the decision-making process was nowhere in the public scene. But since then, many events have passed, many cases, many situations that the agency may not have recognized in a way that the average citizen would see as satisfying as a situation in which competition is protected in an appropriate manner. One of these examples is the one Mrs. Kekin spoke of, and these are examples of the whole series. And that's where we come to how the state actually treats its institutions, I say it's bad and maternal, although the country's first task should be to build and strengthen its institutions. I will always support any proposal that can make one institution stronger and better, while not running away from the responsibility that another institution in this case has in this process would be the Croatian Parliament. For all those situations in which we are dissatisfied with the work of the Agency, with certain decisions, with insufficient determination, with a lack of recognition of some situations where we might react, for example when we had a problem with the N1 concession and the fact that the agency could use its ability to point out certain legislative shortcomings and give its opinion or make some suggestions, and therefore we should not talk about it when we discuss reports and these discussions should be accompanied by much more representative interests than is the most common case. But when we talk about the selection and appointment of leadership in these institutions, I am pleased to hear today that one of the arguments that makes it possible to support the proposed candidate is that it is a person who has long-term experience in the work of the institution itself. Well, at last, such words and sentences can also be heard in political space because they are usually the opposite. We have examples and examples, for example, now that we expect the process of selecting a new leader in the judicial authority, then we often hear that the head of that institution needs someone from the outside, because here everyone in the system is bad, bad and corrupt. I think every responsible state should also be very responsible for its own human resources. In the work of regulatory bodies most often participate in those lower levels, and the same things and the same principles apply both to the judiciary and to the public administration in general, so people who have built their careers right inside a particular house and have gained specific knowledge, experience, practice, very often participated in various international initiatives, conferences, trainings, seminars. Every seminar has publicly invested money in someone's additional education and specialization and the state knows this and.../incomprehensible/... should not be easily denied. Therefore, in principle, the fact that someone has spent his working life in an institution should indeed be some initial sign that it is a person who has the necessary professional qualifications and competences. However, as soon as that person is placed in the decision-making position, he is a person who can have a significant impact on how a single regulatory body will perform its role. I think we need to point out in the very beginning clear and very ambitious demands that this agency become powerful, not only by its powers and rhetoric but by the really imposed sanctions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59543	Thank you, we also have a final club of representatives of the SDP, and a respected representative, Zeljko Pavić, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59544	Dear Chairman, Madam Secretary, here is just to thank our opposition MPs and MPs for being truly on the trail today of what we said on the board since they were also your representatives of your clubs on the board. Some have touched problems and they have a full right. We have touched these problems on the board as well, and we will discuss these problems on the board on Friday. So is this just the moment to criticize the agency I don't know, and I don't know the work of the agency, but I think the colleague who was proposed is far ahead of everyone else and finally that she's the highest quality candidate proposed by the commission who proposed her. I think Mr. Coric was at the head of the commission if I'm not mistaken, is that right, or was he a member? But all in all, I think that we will all agree that it is extremely important that people who have grown up in the system, who have achieved some results in the system, who are quality, who are educated, who are trained to support them and that we should push them forward and that they should be able to prove to us that they are the best candidates and that they will provide the best results and that their agencies and their work in those agencies will be truly envious. The SDP club will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59545	Thank you. That concludes the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59547	So we move to the next point, which is: - A) The proposal for a decision to resolve part of the members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War and - B) The proposal for a decision to appoint part of the members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 12. Law on the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War. The debate was conducted by the Committee on War Veterans and the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Ivica Poličak State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59548	Dear Vice President, honourable MPs and representatives of HS. Regulation (EU) No 515/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 (OJ L 348, 30.12.2013, p. 1). 12th century 3. The Law of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War found that the President, Vice-President and members of the Governing Council of the Centre appointed and resolved HS on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia for four years. The president and vice president began his term last year when HS elected them, and the term of office of members of the board of directors Neli Kusanic, Marija Reljanovic, Dr.sc ended on 6 October. Nicki Baric and Dr. Sc. Davor Marian. The government held its session on 22 July 2021. set out a proposal proposing a resolution with that date of those members of the Governing Council and propose that it be re-named by the date of 7 October 2021. Their résumés have been delivered to you. In that sense, I would ask you to support the choice of these candidates who, in their previous four-year work, have shown not only interest but also quality in the work of the administrative council, which you could see through the report that is being delivered to you every year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59549	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first will speak on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club, the respected representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic. He's gone, he's losing his right to debate, and then he'll speak on behalf of Green-Left bloc advocate Ivana Kekin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59550	... The institution has a clear and unquestionable objective of establishing an argumentative and objective scientific truth about the Homeland War, especially since we are often witnessing distorted interpretations and abuses for daily policy purposes. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] We appreciate the efforts of the Center of Homeland War to establish as objective the truth as possible about the total number of victims in the Homeland War in Croatia, but we are concerned that the centre does not have enough width to co-operate with various civil society associations. If we want to gather as much information and facts as possible about the war, it is important not to have prejudice toward others and to use all possible sources that could shed light on the facts of the war. And the Priory refuses to cooperate with associations that are internationally recognised and which deal with similar affairs is simply not acceptable. Finally, the centre itself will draw conclusions on individual collected data from different sources. We therefore appeal to the re-proposed members of the board of directors to advocate the co-operation of the Center of the Homeland War with human rights organisations, which also persistent and dedicatedly collect data on human losses, i.e. about the fate of those killed and missing from 1991-1995 in the Homeland War, primarily through field research. For example. data from the documents of the Centre for the Facing of the Past which has conducted interviews with more than 7,000 survivors and direct witnesses of the victims and disappearances are complementary data collected by the institution in which they are sitting. According to Art. 5. The Law on the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War should cooperate with other legal bodies and institutions that collect data. Also because this topic is often politicised, and especially painful, any collaboration that would increase the quality of research, and potentially has accelerated it in the interest of the families of victims, dead and missing defenders and civilians. In addition, establishing the more precise and clear truths about the deaths in the Homeland War is in the interest of the overall Croatian public because just now facing the past is the best supply for the future of dialogue and sustainable peace. We therefore appeal once again to members of the Center of the Homeland War council to advocate the co-operation of the centre with civil society organisations dealing with the face of the past and human rights, and such cooperation will contribute to a better understanding of the suffering, the dignity of victims and the protection of human rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59551	The next club of MPs will be that of HDZ, and a respected representative, Goran Ivanovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59552	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President of HS, the Honorable Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Well, basically what I was going to say was on behalf of the War Veterans Committee, but here's a few things I'm going to talk about on this agenda point. At its 5th session, held on 22 September 2021, the Committee for War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament discussed under (a) a proposal for a Decision on the discharge of part of the members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War and (b) a proposal for a Decision appointing part of the members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War, which is in accordance with the provisions of Article 12(3) of the Croatian Parliament. The Law on the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 29 July 2021. The Committee held the debate as a parent working body in accordance with Article 91(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament. As you heard from the introduction of the words of the proposing 4 members, it is Nela Kusanić, Marija Reljanović, Dr.sc. Nicki Baric and Dr. Sc. Davor Marijan's term expires on 6 October 2021 and proposes their resolution and re-nomination as of 7 October 2021. With 7 votes, the Committee adopted this decision and made a decision to resolve the members' actions and also a proposal for a decision to appoint the same members. Of course, the HDZ Club will accept these two decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-22-0.u59553	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met. At the same time, we will end today's work, continue tomorrow at 9:30 on September 23rd, and the first item will be the proposal for a multi-annual programme of catastrian measurement of construction areas for the period 2021 to 2030. Have a nice rest of the afternoon. Session interrupted at 16.13 p.m.
