ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u57762	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament Mr Furio Radin, respected colleagues and colleagues, Croatian peoples lets talk about the weather they would say to the English when they want to bypass a tricky topic. The time that has been preparing us for days for this rain that we now have, but not for inflation and crisis. Have you noticed that we've actually been talking for two weeks about waiting for rain even though autumn is the most rainy season of the year on all sides, from all channels they've been telling us about the possibility of rain. They warned us to be ready to drop the temperature, so we're going to need an umbrella, not to leave the house unless we want to risk it and get wet. Every morning we wake up in suspense and we think whether we will be welcomed out on the streets of our lives by the fall of some rain as they have told us, then here we were witnesses that we knew a little bit of the sun. You're probably wondering, you might not be surprised because you're somehow in your deep issues why I'm talking about something like this trivial, but it's this insufferable triviality that's in the face of the crucial problems of life that I'm personally in pain. Why is it that all those who know and care for us are warning about the most common rain, but they don't warn us, and they don't prepare us for inflation, for crisis. Why is it warning citizens to prepare for and further increase in food prices, gasoline, diesels, here we saw today fuel was never as expensive as it is now, and the state is careful not to reduce the burdens. We're approaching power collection, gas collection. Why don't the media, experts, offer us that umbrella with which the Croatian people, the citizens, will keep their heads in a global crisis that clearly threatens again. Rich EU countries are occupied by the chronic lack of energy. We have also heard about gas problems here in the Croatian Parliament today, there is also a collapse of distribution of basic supplies, savage prices of raw materials for production as well as transport, and this is not the end of the consequences of the closure of lockdown and pandemics, and therefore I need to regain the awareness of Professor Dr. Ioannidis of Stanford, one of the world's leading scientists, has over 6,000 quotes a month that explicitly opposes lockdown, he's an epidemiologist not a grandmother of Wang. The world's strongest scientist is explicitly opposed to lockdown. We can be comforted that these are global problems as the whole world has stopped, so here we can't be spared, but let's be honest and let's just say out loud how many rich EU countries should have stepped on their feet. We heard the President of the European Bank here today saying, "We've moved away from the sink, but I can't see anywhere at the end of the light of that tunnel we're currently living in," says the President of the European Bank. How to avoid being prepared, and to avoid talking about the fact that poorer citizens will feel the most about the consequences we are facing, that we cannot bear the rise in prices because in Croatia you watch out for the share of food in the incomes of almost 30%, in particular 27. Nearly 30% of people on food, and in developed EU countries you know what 5.6, maximum 7, about 8%. How will Croatian citizens submit and where there is electricity, gas, gasoline, where the credits for the roof are, where the plan is, a strategy to deal with all of this in view of galloping inflation, the rise in prices of all products, the cost of living on shaken economic mountains such as Germany, which has inflation most in the last 30 years. What do you think is best to talk about rain, weather? Maybe we should talk about umbrellas too. Or our only umbrella is the money the EU offers us knowing that the Croatian state is more in charge than ever, but wait, we won't bother with such difficult topics, will we? Lets talk about weather they'd say English.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u57822	Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Sandra Bencic, who will hold the position of the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u57823	Thank you. Yesterday we had a chance to see another new video where a group of people beat up other people by driving them from the territory of the Republic of Croatia. I deliberately told other people, not migrants, because the termism of migration increasingly serves to dehumanize others, and less to mark the reasons or needs for which someone is seeking refuge in another country. And you see at a time when these people cross the border and find themselves in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, even if they have crossed and illegally have the right to establish their status, to determine whether they have or do not have the right to asylum, or whether they are, for example, from a war area or from an area where they are threatened with a direct threat to life. In any case, whatever their reasons are, they have the right to human, human treatment. What treatment they encounter we have had the opportunity to see in the video that once again points to a painful fact, which is that either in Croatia there is a parapolitan or there are police forces who have been ordered by someone to take the labels off their clothes when they commit crimes against these people. I don't know what's worse, but what I do know is that this isn't the first such video, that every Minister Bozinovic has been reacting to either with denial or we're going to investigate, and that we've never received any epilogue of these investigations and that now for a long time Croatians have been operating groups that are committing crimes against other people. Today it's people on the move, refugees, and some of them economic migrants, people being dehumanized and portrayed as criminals because they're looking for a better place to live. But all those who justify such crimes against people who are not from Croatia should ask themselves if it is possible to beat and ban people by organising parapolitan groups that act outside of each law to ban someone, which will prevent organisers from doing the same to other groups of people they do not want, who do not want here or who want to drive them out of the territory of the Republic of Croatia. They can be citizens of this country tomorrow. The Green-Left bloc club expects Minister Bozinovic to spot the public and here in the assembly, whether such groups are organised within or outside the police, who organised them and who funded them. We expect them to find the perpetrators and bring them to justice, we expect them to apply domestic international regulations to protect the border, and we expect EU representatives to clearly say what they have taken and what preventive measures they are taking to avoid these practices happening at the EU's external borders. Here I can tell you that just about half an hour ago it was announced that the European Commission was looking for an investigation and that she said she was worried. I'm going to say that this concern has come too late because this isn't the first such video. We've been watching those videos for two years, two years. The Green-Left bloc club, the year it's in the assembly and before, we're warning about such practice and we're warning about the fact that you can't have a legal state in which you have any parapolitan group, either within the police of an organized group that commits crimes against people from wherever these people are from. I also see that the prime minister said that he called here yesterday anxiously, called Minister Bozinovic and asked for an investigation. The prime minister had the opportunity to see such footage several times, asked for an investigation, provided the minister pulled an investigation, where these investigations are constantly saying they're investigating something, we haven't seen any epilogues, we haven't seen any conclusions. I think they're both responsible because it's organized politics, someone organized these people, they didn't happen to find each other and start beating people up at the border. And we're asking them to come here and let us know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u57896	That's what I forgot to say before MOST, now Mrs. Maja Grba Bujevic is in front of HDZ. Mr. Miletic, I got wet today so it was the right forecast. Here you go. Thank you, both things stand, right, okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u57897	... Yeah, October is the month of fighting breast cancer, and today is October 7th, pink ribbon day, National Day of Combating Breast Cancer. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] One in 8 women in the EU suffer from breast cancer. Compared to other EU countries, Croatia is at a 15-place rate of cancer, and at the death of breast cancer at 5th place. Breast cancer is the most common sow of cancer in women in the Republic of Croatia and makes up as many as a quarter of all newly discovered diseases in women. According to the latest published data in Croatia, 2845 new breast cancers were reported in the year, and 722 women died from this malignant disease. The data are indeed frightening, but it encourages the fact that for the 5th year in a row in the Republic of Croatia, we record a decline in breast cancer, which is one of the goals of the national programme together with the goal of detecting breast cancer as much as possible in the early stages and improving the quality of life for the sick. The government of the Republic of Croatia is aware of the importance of early detection of breast cancer as well as the size of the public health problem. As early as 2006, she adopted the National breast cancer detection programme. The programme has been ongoing for 15 years, including women between 50 and 69 years of age. It is essential that.../incomprehensible/... and the mammography of breast x-rays that may reveal breast changes as long as 2 years earlier than that clinical examination. About 150,000 mammographic reviews are conducted each year as part of the national programme, with women's response on average 60 per cent. Over the past 15 years, more than 7,000 new people have been discovered under the National Probation Programme. The range of women responds to the counties ranges between 45% and 80%, with the highest turnout of Međimurska, Krapina-Zagorska, Brod-Posaviska and Požeko-Slavon County. As a result, we have plenty of room for improvement to respond in other counties, and to find out as much as possible in the early stages of breast cancer as possible. This Programme 51 to 60% of breast cancer has been diagnosed in a localised stage, which is the stage in which healing is best. The national early breast cancer programme is also conducted during the Covid-19 epidemic in all health institutions. The only termination of the programme was in spring 2020 during lockdown, but all those women who missed the call then received a repeated call during the fall of the same year. The government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Health, and I firmly believe all representatives and representatives of HS, support activities aimed at raising awareness of the importance of responding to preventive checks including mammographic examinations with the aim of detecting disease at the very early stage when healing is almost 100% possible. I also take the opportunity to thank all civil society organisations who, by their selfless volunteering work and pawning, contribute to raising awareness of the importance of this cancer discovery and thus better outcomes of treatment. Let us all respond together to all the preventive checks offered by the Republic of Croatia in the healthcare system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u57975	You, too. - Mrs. Crescent. Ruzica Vukovac, who will present the position of the Association of Representatives of the Homeland Movement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u57976	Your Honor. The fracture of Croatian livestock, especially cattle, is one of the biggest and most complex dangers that threaten the Croatian economy. The supply of milk and meat markets from domestic sources has been well disturbed, and will further significantly sharpen the difficulties caused by global economic disturbances and our debt crisis. Due to the specificity of livestock production, the effects of the tightening of the crisis in that part of the food system will be long-term and well-insecure. The public, and many politicians are not aware of the threat of a livestock crash because the real situation is still masked by the short-term effects of the incentive and import system. Based on the calculation of the Faculty of Agrobiotechnical Sciences, we received data on how the damage in livestock is measured from 1.5 to 2 billion kuna a month ago. These amounts are increasing every day because cattlemen must feed expensive food, expensive livestock food, their cattle daily. It becomes questionable whether the Ministry of Agriculture, which has so far offered as a solution to the payment of an intervention aid of 150 million kuna, really meant serious. The cattlemen still do not know who this amount is intended for, or how it will be paid, or when, but what we do know is that it is an insufficient measure that cannot solve the accumulated problems. From the field come alarming news, which is that more and more milk producers give up production and announces the sale of their milk cows and farms. The herdsmen are aware that this situation has conditionaled on numerous global factors, but they also know that without concrete support from the state, they will have a complete breakdown. If the State considers that the production of milk is not of strategic interest to it, it is necessary to make that clear in order for producers to turn to other productions. Representatives of the livestock sector requested short-term measures, including one-time support to the sectors, early payment of support by October 15th, and finding a way for the state to restore supply supplies, i.e. to try to keep as much domestic corn and olives as possible for domestic production purposes, as this is the only way to adequately respond to global disturbances and an extremely large increase in the price of cereals, olives, livestock and energy products on the global market. The medium- and long-term measures included a stronger marking of domestic Croatian products on the shelves of trade, to make them more visible than on the side of goods, which comes at dumped prices. Simplified procedures and competitions for renewable energy sources have also been requested, with a view to obtaining as many producers as possible additional sources of revenue and reducing their costs. Among the key measures and resolving the issue of state agricultural land because many herders feed their cattle on rented, depreciated and hard-to-reach parcels, while on state parcels near their farms ambrosia is growing, but they must not, as well as the promotion of capital investments in the construction of a grain warehouse and processing. It is important to note that today we only have 210 producers with more than 20 cows, which alone speaks enough about the situation in the sector. The analysis of the Faculty of Agrobiotechnical Sciences in Osijek showed that there was a rapid rise in the prices of the input, i.e. the cost of feeding the cattle that up to a jump in 2020 was around 50% of the material costs, and at present, 70% in certain sectors. The result is the rise in the price of cereals, cereals and livestock, where in some cases prices rise above 50%. The situation in the market is causing business with loss of the analyzed livestock sector. In addition to these factors, there is a very unfavourable external environment which primarily refers to large quantities of market surpluses in the common market where goods are exported at dumped prices, and the year has been marked by market shocks caused by natural disasters such as droughts, earthquakes, but also by a fight that has consumed many orans. Gentlemen in executive power, it's your move, or we'll keep making milk or thank the cattlemen and send them all to Ireland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u58093	You have no more replicas, we move on to a position on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives. The first is Mrs. Anka Dark Taritash on behalf of the Centre and the Voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u58094	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Assembly of BiH 8.41 kn, Serbia 10.51 kn, Hungary 10.05 kn, Austria 9.95 kn, and Croatia, Croatia is at 11.03 kuna. These prices I listed are the average prices of a liter of Eurodizel in countries in our environment and, of course, in Croatia. I point out that Eurodizell is for a reason, because if half of Croatia's personal cars have a diesel engine, and all the buses, trucks, vans, so those who deliver goods or transport passengers use that fuel. What's going on? There are two questions in that fuel-price story that bother me. The first question is, by when and how much will fuel prices grow, and how will this affect the overall price rise in Croatia? To make it even clearer, will inflation grow to what level? Inflation is, as we know, a matter of which people in these areas have no good experience and I don't need, I'm sure, to explain it in particular. In addition to our bad experiences, a high rate of inflation could in theory and complicate our entry into the Eurozone. Probably not because of inflation growth in the strongest European economies and the fact that those who do not have inflation are still in a state of crisis before recovery, but we must be careful. Inflation in any case, to say the least, complicateds our lives. So the price rise is one pair of sleeves. The second couple and the second question that bothers me is why is fuel more expensive in Croatia than in any country around us? Why did a liter of diesel break all the records in our country, and that didn't happen in neighboring countries? One is the global rise in the price of raw materials, food, energy, and the other is why is fuel growing more than elsewhere? The price of crude oil is currently about $80 per barrel, which is much lower than the price 2.5 years ago when it was $120 per barrel, and then the fuel prices in Croatia were lower than they are today. In this average, at the beginning of the mentioned price of a liter of diesel, our country with various excise duties and gifts participates with more than 6 kuna. It is true that the price of oil derivatives has long been deregulated and formed on the free market, but if more than half the price of various grants and excise duties going to the state, and the VAT is still being calculated, there is room for intervention, and now we are in a situation that is justified to ask a question of what our interest is and what should we do? Fuel prices rise along with the price of other energy products, as well as many other raw materials and products will inevitably spill over to price increases. Price growth again means inflation growth, cost-of-life growth, business cost growth, and then a possible slowdown of a weak economic recovery, and we need it to reach even levels before the Covida-19 pandemic, and those levels, we have not forgotten, far from the average, let alone the developed EU member states. That, alone, for a little while, I'm moving away from the fuel price on the gas stations, there's another significant addition behind the hill, and it's about gas. We are calm in terms of price fixing in Croatia, so to speak. By April 1st next year, but on that day, according to the estimates of the experts we can hear in public, there is a gathering of 30 to 50%. It's a huge blow. Fuel and energy prices are growing in part because of some objective global circumstances, but also because of various speculators and speculation and that's what concerns me in Croatia. Our largest oil company is in the hands of Hungary. Their business policy has often been increased in terms of Croatian interests and our government's relationship with Orban's regime, in Budapest they are covered with fog. I hope that the fuel prices in Croatia will no longer be wilder because of these speculative, political circumstances and relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u58153	Mr. Marijan Pavliček will be the position of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u58154	Dear, esteemed Vice President HS, colleagues and colleagues. The elections are in all democratic states a festival of democracy. We in Croatia have several types of choices, so we have local elections where we choose the main people of municipalities and cities, where we choose representatives in municipal and city councils, we have elections at regional level where we choose mayors, where we choose council members in the county assemblies, we have elections for HS held every 4 years, we have elections for the president of the republics that are held every 5 years, we have since we are part of the EU and elections for the European Parliament, and since this year we have additional elections, or as the so-called elections speak in the people. minority elections. In all those cities and municipalities where national minorities have more than 5% of the population according to the law, they have the right to have their own representatives in accordance with the number and percentage of the population and in the town council. So on Sunday, we had elections in more than 80 municipalities and cities where minority representatives were elected in city and municipal councils and in several county congregations. So on Sunday, members of most national minorities, more than 60 municipalities and towns of the Serb national minority voted for the second time in 4 months, for the second time for the same institution and for the second time could run as opposed to the majority of the Croatian people. In some municipalities and cities, there will be a change of force as these additional elections will essentially cancel the majority's decision in the regular elections held in May this year. And these elections are unfortunately elections that greatly violate the Republic of Croatia's constitution. Namely, thanks to the political agreement at the state level, precisely because the ruling majority accepted the amendments of Furi Radin, Robert Jankovic and the SDSS, these additional elections are being made possible. These elections are unfortunately an absurd festival, a festival of inequality of the majority Croatian people with members of national minorities. This has nothing to do with positive discrimination, these elections are being discriminated against in the national mixed environments and the majority's will in the regular elections is being canceled. And how absurd these elections are and what absurd Croatian democracy is I will tell you now in numbers. Not only do these elections cost an additional 10 million kuna, but let's say today we have a new member of the Zagreb SDSS assembly whose list received as many as 214 votes. 214 votes and a man will decide on a budget of 13.6 billion kuna, otherwise you need about 15,000 votes to enter the Zagreb Assembly. So you have, for example, in the Municipality of Bogdanovci where the list of SDSS in these additional elections received as many as 9 votes and their councilman enters the municipal council and there may be a change of force in the municipal council in the Municipality of Bogdanovac. You have the Cacinci municipality so you didn't need nine votes here, not eight, not seven, not six, not five, four votes. 4 votes you needed to become a municipal councilman, you, your wife and your two adult children, and you are a municipal councilman in the Municipality of Čacinci, deciding on the budget of the municipality and the important matters of the municipality of Čacinci. What does that have to do with positive discrimination? With this way of choice you have made a truly one festival of absurdity and this is one big thumb down for the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia who has not responded to my request for more than 6 months whether these elections are in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and with several articles of the Constitution which clearly and loudly say that we are all equal and equal before the law. Which in this case is definitely not because primarily members of the national minorities will be able to vote twice for the same institution and run twice as many times as is not possible for the majority of the Croatian people. Let's not pretend to be more Catholic than the Pope, let's not play democracy in this Croatian way. I am for minority rights, but definitely not at the expense of the majority Croatian people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u58194	Now it is Mr. Zeljko Lenart's turn to present the position of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and the Workers' Front. Mr. Lenart, the microphone is yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u58195	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Croats and Croats, all citizens of the Republic of Croatia and the citizen, I would like to talk today about a topic entitled Fascism in Croatia, but not that Fascism from II. svt. The war, but about the fascism that is happening today, I don't know what to call it, is it Berošov or Bozinović's National Civil Protection Centre, which regularly deals with the violation of constitutional provisions, which brings measures for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are often out of their minds, through history we have confirmed all this. We've seen everything that's been going on, so I'm going to quote, let's say two thoughts. Mr Berosha's statements. On April 20, 2020, says Mr. Beros, quote, I don't mean to test myself because I have no symptoms and I haven't been in touch with the sick. October 4, 2021 says, I can't understand people who don't want to be tested and free of charge. Today we witness the dissatisfaction of health care workers, the protests that took place and the attempts to choke these protests and the abolition of the freedom of constitutional categories of citizens of the Republic of Croatia, especially the employees of health institutions. Why didn't the Republic of Croatia pass a law that required vaccination? Because this isn't a real vaccine. It's an experimental vaccine. 23. The constitution says no one must be subjected to any form of abuse or without their consent to medical or scientific experiments. Why are we making people split if they don't want to? The virus is transmitted through those who have not been vaccinated, carried through those who have been vaccinated. In the healthcare system there are far more people who have a covid certificate, who enter health institutions today, and do not have to be tested, and those minorities who do not want to be vaccinated for various reasons have to be tested. I don't know if you've tested yourself with a PCR test, but here I have a close experience of a person who, after a PCR test, had a severed right-hand side of his face for a long time. She was negative, had to be tested for certain reasons. Today it is played in the social category, people are working in the health system and with a small salary, with loans, with children at school, with a difficult situation in society, with inflation, every day it collects everything, so here's a colleague now talking about wild fuel prices, but also building material, food, it's all starting to rage far more than just fuel and then people simply give up, yes, to continue living, afraid to quit or some sanctions from where they work accept a vaccine they don't know the right results. Unfortunately, there is another category in the constitution in Art. The 38th guaranteeing the right to access information owned by public authorities, which is the real data on vaccines, unvaccinated, infected, those who are over-experienced, means what we read and what is available, and mostly if it is available and if it is hidden for ordinary people, it is very difficult to find the right information which is not how they are interpreted by the Croatian public. That's why I'm appealing to the government or testing anyone who goes into the hospital because everyone has to wear a mask, everyone can transmit the virus or don't test anyone. Therefore, the PCR test must be tested by pushing the sticks into the nose that damages the mucous membrane if there is a potential for saliva testing. But of course, it wants to develop fear in people, an indirect coercion for someone to implement their crazy plan that he's up to. Thank you. And of course I'll be an antivaxer now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u58196	Thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, the time is over. There are two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Damir, Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u58197	Thank you very much, Vice President. He's been injured. 238 No 1 indent 6. I know that you will say that acting false does not fall under the violation of the Rules of Procedure, but I am afraid to speak in this situation about such a sensitive subject in this way is indeed, indeed dangerous, so to fabricate the truth, first of all to call this headquarters illegal, read the decision of the Constitutional Court, and then interpret and speak in this way. And the other way you're speaking in this way on a flat-rate basis about testing, mucous membrane damage, not understanding matter which is mandatory vaccination, and what's mandatory testing really in this situation that we're struggling with has gone too far, I don't think a little bit of seriousness would hurt.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u58198	It was a replica of it, you know, you know it yourself, and I need to give you a warning. - Mrs. Crescent. Maja coat of arms Bujević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u58199	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I feel exactly the same way as my colleague, Habib, was injured in 238, and I'm going to accept the warning you're about to give me, but I can't say that I'm offended, as well as all the scientific community with a flat-rate interpretation of certain things that deeply affect the knowledge and experience that people who do have. This is the way to bring unrest among the citizens, and that's what led us here, on today's day when we have almost 2,000. So... [[Intruder: Thank you]] Please nice, I accept your warning. [[No, no, thank you very much, I'm sorry.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u58200	I know, I feel for you and even good, it doesn't matter what I think either, it doesn't matter, and I shouldn't even say it, but what you said at the end is not good, I say I agree to a warning because you know it's a reminder, etc. And you know it's a replica because it's still the law. I'm sorry, but we're going to have to do something about it, with this Rules of Procedure HS different because it's, it's only becoming one game, right, which Mr. Zeljko Lenart is about to continue now, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u58201	Thank you, dear Vice President. Art. 238, insulting me as an agent by my colleagues. Gentlemen, I've said the facts, and if you're not prepared for the facts, you only have your own opinion and you don't want to hear other people's opinions and other parts of the scientific community, then you're limited, that I insult you, too, but people have the right to freedom of choice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u58202	I absolutely agree with your last sentence, and you will agree with me when I warn you. Yeah, but, but it's not funny you understand, the whole thing is that it's not funny because this is law and it's organic law and we're constantly breaking it and I'm going to make a proposal at the presidency to put sanctions on, and then we'll see if they accept it or not. Usually, usually, usually not because. Mr. Hrelja can't throw with, I shouldn't talk here either, so I won't give you a warning, but you can't throw as hard as this. Mr. Miletic, come in. ... to you. [[Specially enabled.]] And at the end of the day, Sabina Glasovac, who will be the position of SDP Representatives' Club, Vice-President Glasovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u58275	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. One of the fundamental rights of man is the right to work and, as our Constitution says, everyone has the right to work and to earn the right to provide himself and his family with a free and dignified life. Do we have that in Croatia today? Unfortunately, we don't. The new union recently conducted a survey that tells us that Croatia's decent salary, in line with the galloping cost of living, should be 10,400 kuna net. However, the average salary in Croatia is 7 100 kuna and the minimum salary is 3 400 kuna. It is far, far from a dignified salary and is quite untasteful from the Prime Minister, Plenkovic, to listen only to praise, as I quote, has increased by 27% since the start of his government's salary mandate and that the goal is to make the average net salary of 1000 euros by 2023, a closed quote. We must note that in some earlier periods, the average salary grew in much higher percentages, such as From 2000-2005 by as much as 31.6%, and from 2000 to 2007 45.6%, so there are not many reasons for boasting, and there is even less room for boasting if there is a rise in the minimum wage that barely compensates for the amount of inflation, there is a miserable 150 kuna. Although the whole EU has not made much progress towards the index of decent work, towards meeting the goal of achieving, raising the quality of employment in the last 10 years, what we are concerned about is that Croatia, unfortunately, is also here according to the last survey among the worst, where like Bulgaria and Romania, we show that we do not seem to get close enough to the countries of Western Europe, and we are worst standing in the category of vulnerability of the labour market, i.e. an indicator of the uncertainty and quality of the labour market. More and more workers in Croatia are employed for a certain time, their rights are reduced to a minimum. Platform and overwork are taking on more and more swings, these workers are without any job security, or even without basic physical security. Not to mention, according to the latest survey presented today, only 50 and 49% of labour rights are covered by collective agreements. Why are we talking about this today? Today's October 7th Day is marked as World Day of Dignified Work, whose primary goal is to restore dignity to work and workers. The only decent work based on 4 basic components, which is employment, rights, protection and dialogue, creates prospects for social progress and development. Dignity means opening new jobs and hiring without discrimination. Likewise, it means regular and adequate wages that enables a decent life for workers, as well as for their families. Social security and protection in case of illness, temporary unemployment, retirement, work without exploitation and the freedom of workers to organise themselves into unions. So today on the occasion of World Day of Dignity, we from the SDP invite everyone, both the government and employers, and all of our colleagues and colleagues here in the Parliament, to always be aware that we are all living together from the work and the efforts of workers, that there is no state, and there is no society and that the dignity of work is something we must never forget and ignore. On the contrary, we need to talk about it here and fight for it every day, not just when it's World Dignity Day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u58330	It is now up to Mr Silvano Hrelja to present the position of the Club of Representatives of HNS, HSU and independent representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u58331	Your Honor, I have repeatedly said from this pay phone that our welfare system has been abandoned and I have called for a thorough reform. Since Monday in the debate with the interested public is a package of normative regulations, the Social Care Act, the Action Plan, national plans and all citizens, associations, experts can give their opinion and propose solutions. But I am afraid that the saga on family homes will cover a lot of debates on reform because the proposal for their transformation into institutions has concerned 10,000 families whose loved ones are the closest to the elderly and the powerless ones in the family homes. 2000 people who work are engaged around the protégés and ensure their existence by providing quality services and 500-year-old owners who have been motivated by the same ministry for 18 years to move from foster families to family homes. Every so many changes were made to their terms through changes to the rules that they had to do in walking. Now they are publicly condemned and attributed to them for failing to achieve their goal because they have not created a family atmosphere. He's accusing them of an impossible mission. The family home is a hybrid between a foster family and a home for the elderly and powerless in which no one has to be employed, in which the older families receive into the family house and family members and wider according to the rules of the profession care for them. Of course not all of them are 500ths at a satisfactory level of quality, a level of quality that is not standardised and that of the competent services is not adequately supervised over the years. The proposal for a solution in the Social Care Act does not punish or bring together those family homes in which the situation is bad. Those who work hard to care for the elderly become invited, whose family members actively live and experience all the problems of the users that age and disease brings, but also who participate in the small joys of the users on their birthdays, holidays, however simple I will be, whenever they are prepared to eat something that they personally wished for. Who is such a judge and who takes the right to say that such an atmosphere is not in family homes, and it is in private or online homes. Listen to people and their experiences, so suggest solutions. I cannot accept that in these times institutions act on the principle of cadia, cadiya sues you, cadiya judges you. In any normal society, it would be forbidden to release in public this amount of anxiety, uncertainty, and uncertainty. I appeal again to control our words echoing in public space and never, ever, give them a negative indication that we serve, listen and solve citizens' problems, to look for solutions to the good for all. I'm going to make a proposal to those who have proposed the transformation of family homes into institutions. Offer the founders of family homes a public private partnership, co-finance the adjustments of the family home to institutions, set standards and criteria, expand and increase capacities, take them into the network and co-finance care and protection of older and powerless ones, co-finance and a palitative care that now lives in these homes because it will be more efficient and economical than taking up hospital facilities. If you don't want to, then let good family homes live, motivate them to thrive and develop. Turn yourself in, and when you say everything needs to be transparent, please publish the public results of the supervision of the work of family homes in the last 3 years so that MPs and all citizens know what grain is and what is weed. Interested citizens, please get involved, I want to hear your opinions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61689	Good morning, honourable MPs, respected MPs. I'd only ask you to take your seats. Short information, at the beginning of today's session tomorrow at 10.00 p.m., we will have a formal session on the Day of the Croatian Assembly and the 30th anniversary of the famous historic session in the building of INA when a decision was made to break up state bonds with the other republics and provinces of the former state. The session would start at 10 o'clock, I estimate it would take about an hour, then we'd take one break to 12 and then we'd discuss the agenda point as we announced and we'd have free speeches at 13 o'clock as usual. That's it. We will now start with today's agenda, first item: - half-yearly information on the financial situation, degree of price stability and implementation of monetary policy in the second half of 2020. Sit down, Governor. You're not gonna get your turn yet, 'cause I see we've got our hands in the air. For a short time, the applicant is the CNB based article. 62. The CNB law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, and the government delivered an opinion. I saw in the air a few hands, first came from colleague Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61690	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Mosto Club to remind again why we've collected signatures at HS today to talk to Governor Vujcic. Three key issues affecting Croatian citizens, as far as the work of the CNB is concerned, that is the issue of inflation, that is the issue of the euro, and that is the issue of silence overruns. In that sense, I want to remind you that by art. Article 3 4. The CNB Act, on the one hand, is responsible for supervisory or supervisory and, on the other hand, for maintaining price stability. So I'm going to ask the governor to step out of procedural inertness, not to keep a blind report on the second half of 2020. rather than give us an immediate answer to three key questions concerning the work of the CNB, and they are the first and most important responsibility, 95% of Croatian citizens have benefited without knowing the quiet overruns for three years. Do you feel responsible for waiting so long and for not stopping it in time and for even being overly quiet? As far as we know, this crisis is still untraceable. Another is security, inflation is growing, no one knows how far it will go, and what will the CNB do to maintain price stability? The third related euro in Croatian media is the impression that we have already accepted the euro, and you are well aware that if inflation continues this way, we will not meet one of the key criteria for the introduction of the euro. Please step out of the procedural inert, ask questions who torture Croatian citizens now respond to them. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61691	The apartment will be approved, thank you very much. Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61692	The Honorable President of HS. I'm looking for a break from the Croatian Sovereigns' Club for 10 minutes to consult further. Dear Governor, are you in favour of introducing a provision in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia that reads, the monetary unit of the Republic of Croatia is a kuna that is divided into a hundred limes? The decision to change the monetary unit to the Republic of Croatia is made by voters in the referendum. This is a referendum issue for which the signatures of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will begin to be collected during the day for the referendum to take place. And please don't you and the Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic take for granted that the euro will be introduced because the last word will be Croatian citizens. What you and the Croatian public know, Croatian citizens have never said their views on this subject. And what Croatian citizens think best says this shirt, "Let's protect the Croatian Kuna", that's what Croatian citizens want, that's what you need to know will happen. So this way I invite you to take seriously the will of the citizens, or what the citizens think. And I'm going to give you this shirt, so don't use it just as a pajamas. So put it on and think about it a little bit or try to feel how Croatian citizens feel. They want the Croatian Kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61693	Thank you very much. The break has been approved. Comrade Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61694	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HSS and RF club of 10 minutes to focus on another aspect of which this is going to be about, which is a price hike. Consumer prices in Croatia rose 3.1% at monthly level according to the DZS in August, and the biggest price increase is recorded in the fuel and oil category as much as 19% A good capitalist joke is that workers do not need to lower wages but capitalists can increase the price of their products, you will have the same effect. So here, the pensioners fought to increase their pensions by 2.46%, and the increase of 1.1% exceeded their raise. Here what we want to say and what we want to point out is that this would be avoided, it would be necessary, and there should be some synergy of all the meanings of the elements here involved in this debate, indexing means pay. By indexing wages, we would avoid actually losing our purchasing power, and that pays nominally, yes, it does grow, and then we have this statistics that are being factory and then run and can boast, and actually people on their skin feel like they're living badly so that we would join here with this aspect where the CNB can certainly make a contribution. We would also like to stress that this is the case, and we are going to have this debate at the very agenda on the very character of inflation, so we all remember inflation in the '80s when it somehow contributed to the working majority. So this is where the cameras are protected and the banks are protected, and we're going to explain that aspect. In any case, we believe that the CNB is very important and should assist us in this social majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61695	Thank you. And this break has been approved. There's a colleague named Juričev-Martinchev now, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61696	Thank you very much, President, so on behalf of the HDZ Club, I am looking for a break to further promote all the figures that have been submitted in this mid-term report, which refers to the period of the second half of 2020, when we were all shaken and in the world by the economic crisis related to the Covida-19 pandemic, and the Croatian Government, by many measures, has preserved over 700 thousand jobs from those for the preservation of jobs, funded about 120 thousand employers in 2020, is the year in which we have the 4th round of tax reform that further relieved our citizens for 2.4 billion kuna. This is the year in which we were expecting a tourist season at 25 to 35% record 2019, and we achieved over 50% and many measures tried to prevent the catastrophic figures that rocked other countries in the environment and all of this needs to be talked about once again when watching this half-year report for the second half of 2020.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61697	The break is granted. Is anyone else picking up? If not, we'll continue at 9:00 and 55 minutes. [[It's 9:00.42.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:58 AM]] Dear colleagues and colleagues, we will now continue where we left off, so I will invite the respected governor of the CNB, Boris Vujčić, to present half-yearly information on the financial situation, the degree of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy in the second half of 2020, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61699	Dear Mr. President, honourable MPs and MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome you all. This debate I've been through in the assembly at least six or seven times. I think we agreed a long time ago that what is subject to the agenda is passed, and after that I am available for any questions you have, of course, about the current topics, especially you know that I am always ready to talk about any topic, in the end line you don't even have to collect signatures to ask me anything, you have all the open invitation to the CNB, many of you have already been to the CNB and discussed topics that interest them, and I call you at any point about anything you want, our doors are open. In line with the legal obligation and today's agenda, I will firstly present half-yearly information on the financial situation, the degree of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy relating to the second half of 2020. All last year, of course, it was crucial to mark the pandemic of Covid-19, but in the second part of the year, as we have seen, they began to monitor the signs of recovery that materialise more strongly this 2021. when economic activity has accelerated and already exceeds pre-pandemic 2019 levels this year. Although not all parts of the economy recover at the same pace as the processing industry and the construction industry recovered relatively quickly after a strong decline in the second quarter last year. We can say that the processing industry has reached its pre-crisis level by the end of 2020, while construction in the third quarter of 2020 has recovered losses from the previous quarter, and these activities continued to grow in the first half of this year. On the other hand, service activities that are closely related to social contact are still and will remain below pre-crisis levels for some time. Let's remind ourselves that it's in the second half of 2020. there was already a global recovery even though it was not uniform among countries. Some economic trends that were crucially marked by the first part of '21. They started at the end of last year, and this primarily refers to the rise in raw materials prices in the second half of 2020. However, central banks maintained highly expansional monetary policies, so the funding conditions for European countries with emerging markets, including Croatia, were favourable. In Croatia, the biggest contribution of GDP fell in the second part of the year compared to the second half of 2019 resulted in a reduction in total exports and personal consumption. However, compared to the first part of the year, personal consumption and total exports increased, while capital investments exceeded the level achieved in the second half of 2019. The number of employees in the second half of 2020 began to grow slightly, and in late December it approached the pre-cross level, while the number of unemployed also decreased, while wages in the second half began to grow slightly. Inflation was in the second half of '20. Mostly remained negative, so the second half of the '20s, that's a link to the discussion we'll later have about the current state of inflation was negative, so the base was a drop in prices. The reason was primarily lower energy prices, then reduced food prices, and generally weakened demand, so the demand during the pandemic has dropped significantly due to the slowdown of economic activity, largely and directly due to different types of lockdowns in different countries that have directly affected demand. As regards the foreign relations in the second half of 2020, the surplus on the current and capital account of the balance of payments has fallen significantly, primarily due to the reduction in tourism revenues. At the same time, however, there was a stronger use of funds from eu funds. The whole '20s. The surplus of funds spent from Euro funds over payments to the EU budget was 4.2% of GDP, a noticeable improvement compared to 2.6% of GDP achieved in 2019. An increase in foreign reserves and a reduction in gross foreign debt in absolute amount has been achieved, although the donor indicator of gross foreign debt has deteriorated due to the decline in GDP. At the end of this second half of 2020, I would like to remind myself that the CNB has been spottably stabilising the conditions on domestic financial markets already in the spring of 2020, so that in the second half of the year there was no need for additional monetary policy measures except for the purchase of banks' foreign exchanges, which we eased the slightly more pronounced appreciation pressures in the second half of the year. There was no need for additional purchases of government bonds either. We're the one who, we call it QI, the quantitative output or the purchase of state-owned securities, as we like to call it, ended up practically in 4 months. I would also like to point out that despite the long period of negative European contributions and historically low dollar yields, adequate profit has been provided from the management of international reserves of EUR 74 million or HRK 556 million. I would now say a few words about what we, in the CNB, expect in the first part of 2021 on economic growth and price growth for this year and next. Our projections say that the growth of the economy in this year could reach 8.5%, and in the following year 4.1%), this will affect both employment and wages according to our assessment. At present, the labour market has already fully recovered in a way that has returned employment levels to levels above 2019. and while you have a slightly higher unemployment rate, this shows that the labour market participation rate in Croatia, which was a long time ago, will be remembered by you who have been in the Assembly for years I have been saying that this is one of the major weaknesses of the Croatian economy, but now the participation rate or employment rate has begun to increase, partly because of the fact that we have achieved significant labour imports due to lack of qualified workers. According to official statistics, some 35,000 workers, however, are likely even more. We estimate that, due to the continued great uncertainty, it is possible that these projections are not realized, but unlike previous projections, these positive and negative risks are balanced according to our opinion. The negative risks for the economy are the possibility that in the euro area's 4th quarter of this year, there will be a deterioration of the epidemiological situation and the consequent tightening of restrictive measures which could result in the slow intensity of the euro area's recovery, resulting in weaker foreign demand and would be more unfavourable than those currently projected. A weaker investment dynamic is also possible due to the rise in the price of construction materials and services, which could also be negatively reflected in the use of EU funds. Inflation by our estimates will accelerate to 2.3% this year and slow to 2.1% in 2022. In the past year, the acceleration of inflation occurred mainly under the influence of energy and nutrition prices. Unlike projections and economic growth in inflation projections, negative risks or risks that could lead to higher inflation rates being achieved. You have noticed what is happening in recent weeks, primarily restrictions in the supply of electricity in parts of some provinces of China, which will increase the safe demand for gas imports to China. The price of gas is very high, if you look at the future market the same way you can see to the extent that oil can replace it will replace it, however oil is used marginally practically in world production to produce electricity and the possibility of gas substitution with oil is very limited. At this point, what maintained the price of oil at stable levels before the pandemic means 2018, 2019, and that was fracking and Shelgas in America is still in a situation that only half of those production capacities opened in 2019 are now open. In fact, they closed in 2020 when the price of energy fell strongly, you know that the price of oil went to 20 euros at one point and is now just re-establishing these production capacities. At this point, approximately 41 production units of approximately 85 were in operation before the pandemic. Until the production chain is restored, and at $80 level, most of them become profitable, we will have a limit on the side of the offer which can negatively affect these risks of achieving the inflation rate primarily through the price of energy. It partially addresses the question you asked at the outset, and later we can discuss it in more detail. The central bank's reactions depend, of course, on the sources of inflation and its nature. In principle, in the situation in which we are now central banks do not act because they estimate that inflation growth is caused by temporary imported cost pressures. In fact, monetary policy tools enter the scene only when there is a risk that import price growth could be significantly overrun into rising domestic prices and services, pay growth, and that inflation expectations would start to grow. In this year, the lack of material and equipment affected the growth of producer prices, while the growth of consumer inflation expectations is likely linked to the acceleration of food prices. The negative risks to inflation relate to the possible rapid growth of personal consumption than the expected higher price of crude oil and other raw materials on the world market, to a more pronounced increase in prices of semi-products due to congestion in supply chains and to the possibility of an increase in certain administratively regulated prices. As for the foreign relations in this year, we expect the growth of the surplus current and capital account, while improving the indicators of foreign debt, as well as the international reserves of the CNB continue to grow. At this moment, they are at the historic highest levels of over 23 billion euros. The banking sector is expressed liquid and reduced interest or financing costs continues. The growth... of companies was muffled, primarily because last year at the beginning of the pandemic if you remember in the spring, we had a strong growth in placements to companies, and in a situation of uncertainty, companies built liquidity reserves. I call it that... so they built a shield to enter the war, however, as the situation relatively rapidly normalized businesses would remain the same liquid with significant liquidity reserves. Rast... the population is under the influence of primarily residential loans, and this is the programme of subsidisation, i.e. the APN. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let me also refer to this issue with negatives, i.e. some recent activities of the CNB. This is not at all about the fact that the CNB would be late with a reaction to established practice, overruns by citizens' accounts, on the contrary, meaning we had a very spotty reaction to the Office for the Monitoring of Consumer Protection in the CNB which acted proactively and ex ante to prevent people from getting into trouble tomorrow. Namely, what's this about? It is that both permitted and tacit excesses are legally regulated products. By 2018 alone, overrun was a standard, so it was nothing at all, which would have been legally unregulated, which would have been legally illegal. By 2018, standard was allowed, and as we established by a survey of banks, 2020, when we received data from 31.12.2019, 2018 and more in 2019, some of the banks began to bring people in from allowed overruns. We have reacted practically to the first, to, meaning any first consumer remark. The first seven means out of the 1,000 that we receive annually, consumer remarks, the first seven came in the first half of 2020, there was nothing before. Why? Because when the banks translated people from allowed for overruns, they practically kept the same product functionality as if they remained in the permitted overrun. So no one noticed it as anything special or their funding costs were higher, so they would notice, as I said, when we simulated it, there's about a difference in cost at the level of the average consumer 50 kuna a year, right? However, as we have established it, it means to the first one, to the first reaction to what consumers have told us is that some people have come to the banks and said they have received excesses that they did not ask for, it was strange for us because if allowed, it can't be that you didn't ask for it. You can say it silently, which is all regulated again and in the way it is. Others came and said, we came for a loan, let's say, cash, so they told us that our credit rating is lower because we already have an overshut overrun than, I don't know, 20,000 kuna. So it's already suspecting something's going on again. That's when we did it, so right away people did it, an analysis, found that the good part of the people was gradually translated from allowed to silence, and what happened here? This is where we de facto only had a rise in current account fees in 2019 and 2020, meaning '19. And then 20. Erste raises your billing fee from 10 to 12 kuna, HPB from 9 to 10 kuna, PBZ from 7 to 9 kuna, OTP from 11 to 12 kuna and Addiko from 12.5 to 13.5 kuna. So we saw it in '20. in the first report of banks as a growth in fees. Go see what's going on here. So very spotlessly, and when it is determined what is happening, to prevent future unwanted consequences, none of the consumers complained about it in this way that you ask, but to prevent people from, if they come into a situation to reduce the negatives, to reduce their wages, to lose their jobs, to have protection equal to what they have in the permitted overruns in these quiet ones, means that they can get paid off 12 wars primarily, and with the desire to further regulate the overshut overruns, which should be the exception, which should be the rule, we proposed in the spring of 2020 legal applications to do so, on you, at the Assembly, that these legal changes one day and adopt, and thus again achieve the protection of consumers as we want to have. But I'm saying, the financial effect of that is for consumers is very small, they didn't object to it, they rebelled exactly what we're going to address right now, that they have the possibility of paying them off if they're down to 12 wars or we can go even to say it, and my preference is to limit the minuses to 3 salaries, we've found by polling that there are some people who have more minuses, 3 salaries, no more than 3 salaries, if you have 4, 5 or 6, I'm giving you 36, 24, 12 months to get down to 3 salaries. I think that's good consumer protection. It doesn't mean that everyone will like it, sometimes when people go to protect you, they don't appreciate you protecting them from your own financial behavior, but in the end, it's up to you and the Parliament to decide how you want to regulate it, and we're just going to implement that regulation when we have it. As for the euro issue, we signed a memorandum of understanding with the EU Commission and the euro group that we took a new step in introducing the euro two weeks ago, we received the possibility this year to extract a million copies of coins with a national character. As you know, we have conducted the tender, we have conducted consultations with the public, we have chosen 5 coins, 5 motives to go to the Croatian coins of the euro, so it will be our coin, our money will be the euro. Kuna will be back on it,... to show that continuity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Right now we're in the design selection process, it's gonna...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61700	Thank you, Governor. Time's up, so you'll be able to do it. [[/Intruder: Mm-hmm.]] Yes, yes, of course, in the answers or later you can appear five minutes between the discussions. [[Intruder: There will be time to answer.]] Stay here now because we have 21 lines, first up, colleague Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61701	Your Honor, Governor, I'll be on my way from the end. You said our money would be EUR-o, I disagree, our money is kuna and only kuna. The EUR-o as much as you consider it or take it for your money, it will never be our money, that's what's important. And as for Croatian Kuna design, it is, it is a great design and beautiful coins, and for EUR-o more or less. You have boasted of a number of measures and actions that have affected economic developments in Croatia, so the question is first. Why are we even giving up these tools that we have introducing EURo? Secondly, why do we not respect the Maastricht conditions when trying to introduce the EUR, what will we Croatian sovereigns prevent? The third question, you say that inflation is 2.3%, in Germany inflation is 5% in the Eurozone and you yourself said that the slow recovery of the Eurozone from the crisis, why do we crash into the Eurozone when the economic situation is worse than in Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61702	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61703	So, what do we give up in Croatia by entering the monetary union? We give up in principle if you are looking at the monetary policy of an independent policy of keeping interest and exchange rate policies. I've spent countless times here in the assembly explaining why the CNB can't use its exchange rate policy in an active way, the type to devalue the currency in order to boost exports, and the growth of the economy. Simply because Croatia is extremely... Earth. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yesterday, I spoke to the Croatian Employers' Association, about the introduction of the EUR, I received full support from HUP companies, they are satisfied with it and support the introduction of the EUR. Why? That's why they have 80% of their debt also denomined in the EUR, which means that the 10% depreciation of the kuna exchange rate means the growth of Croatian companies' debt by 20 billion. Kuna [[Intruder: Thank you]] That's why you can't... [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61704	Governor, I'm asking you to follow the time, so...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61705	It's kind of hard for me to answer three questions, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61706	You have to take care of the weather like everyone else. Now it's my friend Selak Rasdic's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61707	Your Honor, Governor, I must say that you are a little socially insensitive. People who are forced to use high minuses are all full of them, and those 50 kunas you say just don't matter, and I won't even mention what a win it was for the banks. I also note that you have given a new dimension of the word "prompt" because I really cannot understand how 3.g. how much you need to react spotlessly and in which language. I would like to remind you that you are not a consumer protection office, and by consumer rights we are the worst in the EU, but you are an institution that is legally supervisory of credit institutions and you had to notice in time. And my question to you is very specific. You started a dialogue with the banks, when will the bank deal come and what is the deal supposed to look like?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61708	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61709	It was very spotfully reacted to all consumer protection standards, as I explained. Supervision is another thing, it's a prudential supervisory and rests on the Credit Institutions Act, so the Bank's Capital Adequate Directives. It's another thing, you don't notice that these things happen. This kind of thing is noticed when consumers take something to you, and then you do research on it, and it's done very spotlessly. How's he gonna get rid of it? It will be dealt with so that the same standard of consumer protection that has too quiet overruns will be ensured as having been allowed, in other words it will have the possibility to pay back 12 months, if they are reduced minus they will have an effective interest rate of 7.62% with me warning you, we are the only country in the EU that has minuses regulated with an effective interest rate, all other countries have a nominal interest rate. So now we're talking to the banks, the Ministry of Finance, and we're about to have that solution. In the meantime, nothing's going to happen, people won't be closing down their minuses and everything people were afraid of.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61710	Thank you very much. My colleague Troscott, did you report a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61711	Yes, I am. The 238th prudential supervision can determine this, this side for the reason it goes to the banks can be re-scheduled, interest income and loans...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61712	A colleague, a colleague of Troscott, what's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61713	Because it's not, so it's just a review of interest, so... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61714	Please sit down and get a warning, please sit down, it's a replica, it's no breach of the Rules of Procedure, so let's not violate the Rules of Procedure in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61715	But this isn't true. So... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61716	Here, have a seat, you get a warning. You get a warning, so it's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, so you know it, but you've been here for over a year. Here is the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61717	Art. 238, you're in violation of the Rules of Procedure, the Honorable President of the Assembly. If my colleague Troscott is really wrong about hurting the Rules of Procedure, it's up to you to listen to what he has to say...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61718	Have a seat and you'll get a warning, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61719	...and then you can give him a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61720	Have a seat.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61721	You can't give him half a sentence of warning, and neither can I. You have to wait until the end. These are the powers.../The speaker has been disfellowshipped....
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61722	Please sit down, you get a warning, don't tell me what a breach of the Rules of Procedure is and how to treat a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Sometimes I let go until the end when I see that there may be injuries to the Rules of Procedure, but even here, my colleague Troscott didn't even bother to say what the breach of the Rules of Procedure was in, but he began to paralyze or replicate the exhibitor. So, please, about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, let's start treating her the way she defined her Rules of Procedure or there's no point in having her in the Rules of Procedure because she's used as a replica. If we keep this up, we won't be able to work normally and it happens every day that the breach of the Rules of Procedure is used as a replica. That's when I have to react and give a warning, that's what the Rules of Procedure says, and you're doing it on purpose, you keep saying it, and you're deliberately doing it to a few, and everyone else, so 100 and 40 don't do it, and a few do it, and it's not fair and it's not fair, and it's my duty as Parliament President to react. Here you are, Bozo Petrov, representative, violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61723	The Honorable President of the Assembly for me was injured in Article 238, for the reason that Article 238 clearly states that he was injured when he was belittled. To me, bringing out lies and your non-responsiveness to this demeaning of parliamentary deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61724	My colleague Petrov, how many times did you tell a lie, and I didn't give you a warning? So, not just you, but...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61725	I didn't bring it up once, and if I did, you should have warned me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61726	Well, it's yours, it's your opinion, please sit down and get a warning. So, bringing out the truth, making false is very difficult, and if you were to get into it, you'd think it was one truth, and I'd think something else was true. And if, on that basis, I were to make warnings and assess the justification for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, then it would turn into a circus. You all know that very well. Therefore, it is not likely to be mentioned in the Rules of Procedure in Article 238 as the reason for the notice. And if someone's feeling hurt, it's very hard to judge the same thing. Because it might hurt someone else, and it might not hurt the other way around. So, please, let's know what's really good, what's common sense and how we've done it so far and what's right and what's wrong, and I'm asking you to stick to it. A colleague of Vidovic Kristo's, also a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61727	Mr. Jandrokovic, Article 238, you hurt him, you are the first among the equals here, you are not here to document the entire assembly and to disrespect him, you read the Rules of Procedure and stick to it. If it says that the breach of the Rules of Procedure is 30 seconds of exposure, after those 30 seconds you decide as chairman whether to warn or honor it, not to interrupt people.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61728	My colleagues Vidovic Kristo, please read the Rules of Procedure. You have the basis of Article 240(1), I give you a reminder by taking away the words. So, I can take your word during your exposure. Because you also have the basis of Article 240(2), I give you a reminder by taking away the word until the end of the debate on this subject. So, I can tell you during your exposure, I can tell you during your exposure if I estimate that there has been a breach of the Rules of Procedure on your part to take away the word. You can do that. ... No, no, that's your interpretation. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61729	After I say it, it's not, so you give the first warning, the second warning, and then you take away the word.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61730	Please, please, please sit down, don't get up until I give you my word. In order for us to work normally, we have to stick to the procedure. I didn't make it up, it's the result of what the Croatian Parliament decided. And the responsibility of the chairman is to stick to what the Rules of Procedure says... My colleague Vidovic Kristo, I stick to it. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] And we can analyze the situation look at what my colleague Troscott did, so see if it was a breach of the Rules of Procedure or not, and whether my reaction was justified or not. That's exactly what this is all about, I'm not letting it end when I estimate that, yes, yes, don't be surprised, you can contact the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system if you think I was wrong. ... I asked him, just a little bit, don't, don't, so I asked him where the Rules of Procedure was hurt, and he answered that the governor wasn't telling the truth. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] So he's polemized, he's replicated, and that's the difference. You all know that very well, but pretend you don't understand. You're getting a warning, too. Let's move on now, now it's time for the esteemed colleague, Badass Bilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61731	Thank you very much. Dear Governor, it is clear to me that we are discussing price stability in the second half of 2020, but I am asking you on behalf of the public to answer what you are doing as one of the line of defense that can affect the current wave of collection that is largely jeopardising the standard of living of our citizens. Prices have flown into the sky and inflation is extremely worrying. I'll just mention that the key food products have been quite expensive, say grains and olives almost 100% compared to last year and believe it or not has become a luxury for a large number of our citizens especially pensioners to buy 5 liters of oil. Not to mention the construction material, the iron is paid as dry gold. In addition this week, the price of a litre of diesel is highest in history. A litre has broken through the amount of 11 kuna which is indeed an excessive blow to the pockets of our citizens and pensioners. I'm not sure which border the citizens are going to take this. and I'm asking you what limit you're gonna tolerate this. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61732	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61733	Yeah, you're right. So we have inflation for the first time as a subject like this in years. What are the reasons for her? The primary rise in energy prices this year and based on the very low start base from 2020 when the prices you remember were down I said that in the opening show at $20, they now jumped. So that's something is an import component, another is a diet. However, there is a very different situation in the diet, not all the food components have grown the most oil and fat 40% this year, and as they participate in the basket with 0.3%, this contributes to the overall inflation level by 0.1% while the rise in energy prices has practically contributed almost 1.5% to inflation prices. Since it is primarily about imported components then the most important thing in this situation is that the course works to increase import prices. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61734	Thank you very much. Comrade Vukovac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61735	Thank you. Currently, there is a building of the headquarters of the Croatian Post Office Bank in Jurisic Street in Zagreb of over 1000 m2, as well as a valuable business space of almost 400m2 held in Dubrovnik. In addition, the exercise was also set at the business stake held by HPB Invest. Each of these 3 implementations carries a cost of more than 100,000 kuna or more than 300,000 kuna in total. The Croatian Post Bank has, on top of questioning its own real estate and so far, caused both the cost of another 300,000 kuna and the continuation of the flow of large interest anyway. Can you give us a more detailed explanation of what this is all about? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61736	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61737	Unless I'm wrong, it's a court case that's still pending, Bojan, please. Good afternoon. So, according to our information, it's a court procedure that's been completed by a powerful verdict in favour of the HPB's credentials. The amount covered by that powerful ruling is not significant in the sense that it would question the financial stability of the bank. ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61738	You can't answer about that. There you go. The governor can't answer, you can't answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61739	So it's a court procedure. which is ongoing, now details I don't know. [[Intruder President: Just please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61740	Just please. What makes you think to answer that?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61741	You can't run a session like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61742	My colleague Vidović Kristo, what do you want?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61743	Do you see what you're doing? Well, the gentleman on the side speaks, you don't register at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61744	Yeah, 'cause I was talking about something else right now. You can't do that to everyone it's clear that other than the one in charge of telling who's behind the pay phone, no one else can talk. I apologize for not reacting at the first minute, but after I saw you saw for yourself that I was responding. Here you go. You won't continue the governor? You've got 17 seconds left.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61745	No, I said this was a pending court procedure. If you want some details about it, we can send it to you later.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61746	Now it's my friend Bartulica's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61747	Your Honor, Governor. Croatian media today write about the need to amend a thousand regulations on the introduction of the euro, but there is not a single word on structural reforms that must be implemented to make our country ready for such a thing at all. In case the introduction is announced, I am interested because you have repeatedly warned with the right to the weaknesses of the Croatian economy, to postpone key reforms. According to you, what are structural reforms that cannot be delayed, which are necessary and necessary that Croatia can at all cope with the pressure that brings the euro? Therefore, it seems to me that we should put emphasis on the cost of inaction and whether Croatia is objectively ready. We know other countries have done this task in time, we haven't, and it seems to me that the introduction is in some way a substitute for reforms that have not been implemented spent. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Your opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61748	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61749	So I would say that the introduction of the euro is another structural reform in itself and should act as a catalyst for the rest of structural reforms. I often say that EU accession was a major structural reform for Croatia that allowed us to grow from a country that had a deficit years before, practically from war to EU accession, to become a country that has a surplus in relations with abroad, and we practically took advantage of EU accession in this respect. The entry into the euro does not solve structural issues, it is not a substitute for solving structural issues, meaning everything we are talking about structural reforms, state administrations, health care, the judiciary are key things, but how we need to understand the introduction of the euro that we can understand as one catalyst to make and these reforms will, in the long term, depend primarily on them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61750	Now it's my colleague Troscott's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61751	Your Honor, Mr. Governor. The CNB is not a central bank, but is sovereign and makes its decisions, at least for the time being. We will not cross over, we will warn Croatian citizens that there is an increase in interest rates as a response to inflation, given that a lot of money has been injected into the financial system, which automatically means that they will collect both debt and loans in the Republic of Croatia and this is well identified by counterpart Selak Rasudiæ for reasons that this could also be a debt crisis, given that all those who have loans and who will take them and who have minus interest rates will increase it. What do you think is concrete, given that it is under the direct authority of the Croatian Central Bank, which will be your reaction to reacting to the growth of interest rates and how do you think this effect will spill over to Croatia that is coming globally? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61752	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61753	I don't know when you see the growth of interest rates. At this point, interest rates are not talking at all. If you're talking about the normalisation of monetary policy, the normalisation of monetary policy now first I'm going to tell you that as far as supervisory is concerned, we've already entered the banking union, that's what you were talking about before. So the CNB is no longer the main supervisor of Croatian banks but is the European Central Bank since 10 months last year we are already inside the banking union. And as for interest rates, normalisation won't work by raising interest rates, so first we have a reduction in the purchase of securities by central banks in the case of Europe, it's this pandemic programme, then a regulatory programme, and then negative deposit rates, then only then operational interest rates of the European Central Bank, so it's nowhere near at present. ... We'll see about that, we can talk about it next time I'm here, but probably not then, but maybe in a year and a half I'd say at least. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61754	Let's move on, now it's time for my colleague Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61755	Thank you, dear president of HS. Your Honor, Governor Vujcic. I dare say it's 2020. Whose, and your report refers to that year, that this is one of the most difficult years since the Homeland War and despite the pandemia of all the other difficulties that have hit us, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has managed to secure a stable labour market without the unemployment tsunami, moreover with more employees 50,000 more compared to last year, and 6,000 more compared to the old normal. Also a stable exchange rate relative to the euro, there is a job conservation measure that has helped nearly 700,000 workers. My question is this, that the Republic of Croatia is part of a monetary union to reflect on the impact of the crisis?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61756	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61757	Well, as you said, we did really well last year in terms of macroeconomic policy mix and monetary and fiscal, I'd say textbook good, so we have this fast recovery where we're practically back by the end of the year to pre-pandemic GDP levels, and as far as employment and higher levels are concerned. However, if we had been in the monetary union, then it would have been easier for us, that's for sure. If we were in the European Monetary Union we could rely entirely on the European Central Bank, there would be no attack on Croatian currency, there would be no attacks on the bond market on Croatian debt or on Croatian debt instruments. Why? Therefore, there would be no currency risk at that time and the European Central Bank would be entirely behind us as it was behind all the other euro area members. We were fortunately able to agree with the European Central Bank last year that currency swap that helped us, and it was the consequence that we were on our way to the European Monetary Union, if we hadn't gotten it, as other countries had not been looking for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61758	And now it's time for my colleague, Vuciilovic, to come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61759	Thank you very much. Dear Governor, when I listen to you then somehow it seems to me that you are in that balloon too, a bubble in which ministers are often also ministers and ruling when they say that Croatia is a beautiful place to live, living here is great, fantastic, but I will remind you that the Law on the CNB in Art. 3. says the CNB's goal is to maintain price stability. And you can now say these are import components etc., etc., we know very well that Croatia is not self-sufficient in many products and you have import components, but you cannot escape from what is in the law that you must implement, which is price stability. What do you do to prevent this rampage of prices our citizens feel every day on their home budget?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61760	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61761	You're absolutely right. This is exactly the basic goal of the CNB, regardless of Croatia is a beautiful country for life and I am convinced of it and I live in it because, but what we do, we do according to the law. In the last 30 years. As you know, price stability is defined as an inflation rate of close to 2%, so that's how the US state assessment to the European Central Bank is defined and the current inflation rate for this year is estimated to be 2.3%. Therefore, I do not come up with any deviations that would be significant from the objective, inflationary, which is the objective of 30 recent years for all central banks. We're not in a situation where we were in the '80s or '91, '92, '93, we were in a stabilisation program, the inflation rate was 1,000%, it was inflationary pressures, it's now at year level 2.3%, let's be aware of that. And it's estimated that most of the shocks are transitory. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61762	Comrade Antoliæ Vupra, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61763	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Governor. So, the information that we are discussing today refers to the second half of 2020, and to be current, we already have information from the first half of 2021, it would be worth thinking about that topic a little bit. And from this information that we are given, we see that the debt of a consolidated general state is at the end of 2020. is 329.7 billion kuna or 88.7% of GDP. I am interested in what is the current public debt, and how will Croatia be able to deal with such a large public debt, and how will this affect our recent entry into the euro area, and what can the CNB do about it?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61764	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61765	Yes, public debt increased significantly during 2020 and in part 2021 primarily as a result of the support provided by the economy, and therefore we did not have a larger increase in the unemployment rate. If you remember that crisis in 2009. Then we had a much stronger increase in unemployment than we are now. Why? Now the employers couldn't break up the contracts if they had fiscal support. This has brought practically public debt to a level even something beyond when we started to reduce it, meaning since 2015. and what we're assessing right now is that we're going to meet the master criteria if they say that public debt must be reduced by one-tenth of the difference between 60% and the current level, which for Croatia means 1.2 points, 1.1-1.2% points per year, and we're going to decrease this year and next year between 2 and 3% points. So we'll be able to satisfy the form... [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61766	Comrade Dark-Taritash, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61767	Thank you very much, dear President-in-Office of the Assembly, Your Honor. I'm going to do a little reference on construction that went into recovery in the second half of 2020, and before that. If there had been an accidental recovery behind the earthquake, then I'm sure there would have been some kind of a different indicator. But what we are witnessing, which is an increase in real estate prices and not existing old properties, but an increase in the prices of new apartments, and it goes on and on and on and on. I'm interested and you're following it and that publication we've got has shown nicely what's going on here, but it can continue and can be expected to continue, the disturbance is both the price and the building materials, and it is expected that the problem of the workforce continues to be the price of real estate in the area of the Republic of Croatia, what will this have to do with all the other situations?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61768	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61769	The fact that we have a strong rise in real estate prices and he, I would say is already slowly worrying about financial stability. Every time we have a strong growth of some kind of property, and I've been warning since last year that this could happen to us, then, of course, there's a risk of a strong and falling price at one point. Three basic factors for this, one is low interest rates that allow easier borrowing, I would say at least, at this point, if we do not have so much credit growth in real estate prices, the other is APN means subsidisation of the state, purchase of real estate and the third is perhaps at this point the most important structurally low interest rates on deposits and the European Central Bank has a negative interest rate on deposits that even in the countries around Croatia is -50.../incomprehensible/..., meaning 0.5%, in Germany as well. We have people who at 0% or even negative interest rates draw cash and buy real estate. And I know the man who came to Zadar, where I bought four apartments this year. /incomprehensible/... [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61770	Let's move on, colleague Vidovic Kristo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61771	Thank you. Mr Vujcic, I assume you are aware of the fact that Croatia is an EU member, and the fundamental value of the EU is the rule of law. The rule of law, however, means that laws must be respected and that they are all equal before the law. Here you are aware that Addiko Bank is sending violent agencies to their clients which violates the constitutional principle of inviolability at home because these are mafia methods that are completely forbidden. Are you aware that this terrible fact is your responsibility because you are violating the laws so that banks may commit violence against their clients? Otherwise, Mr. Vujčić was raided yesterday in the office of the Austrian Chancellor, so there are no untouchable persons in the orderly states. Croatia will become a very recently arranged country, and I hope you are aware of your responsibilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61772	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61773	No, I'm absolutely aware of my responsibilities. We were just talking about different aspects of our responsibility. As far as what you're talking about, you're talking about agencies that have been sold claims to clients and him, and agencies aren't governed by the law that they're under the authority of the CNB. If someone, however, what you're saying is if someone comes knocking on somebody's door at night I'd call the police right away because it's harassment, it can't be done. It's not a CNB thing but to call the police because if someone did, I would even call you five times every night at 11 o'clock to report to the police, it's harassment, it's not allowed, it can't be allowed anywhere. But it's not something that's in the CNB's jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61774	Comrade Kristo, please don't throw it out of the bench, it's the same reason you're getting a warning from article 238, but I won't give it to you. Let's move on, colleague Puljak, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61775	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Governor, I'd just like to comment on any major change in our society we hear like this I'd say the populist voices that say will happen if there is a cataclysm. So when we were entering the EU there was an announcement of cataclysm, and here we are talking here about the introduction of the EUR, so it's re-announced some cataclysm that will happen in a country where citizens save in EUR, buy cars in EUR, buy apartments in EUR, pay even in EUR, so the EUR-o is already there, I would say just end the procedure and legalize it as a currency. But what CNB certainly needs to do is work on some better communication towards citizens. So really explain to the citizens what's in it for them is, which is important to them, what the EUR-o will bring them, how it will affect their lives and what they really are Benefits or benefits from the introduction of the EUR. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61776	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61777	I completely agree with you, here I was yesterday, just as I said in the Croatian Employers' Association, we talked about what it was for companies. We need to explain the same thing to the citizens very well, which is good for them. I would say the best thing to do is to look at what is happening in countries that have already introduced the EURo. What is the support of the population, citizens of these countries for the EURo? Very high. So we're talking about support of 80 percent among people who already have EURo. It means that the EUR-o is not good, if they didn't turn out to be good, they certainly wouldn't support it. You can't take people over, across water, and you can't fool them for a long time. And that's what I think when we look at it, it can also be a confirmation to our citizens that after the introduction of the euro, they will only be better. In all these countries, wages, pensions grew faster than prices. The standard of living in all these countries improved, even countries that fell into the crisis of the type of Greece when they had a vote in their parliament to stay in EUR or not, they decided to stay [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Because they realized it was better for them. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61778	Please, Governor, hold on a minute. Comrade Brumnic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61779	Dear Governor, what we're talking about today is actually something that you did half a year ago, is what you were doing today we see results on the market. That's what the key is. You were aware of what was fully showing your exposure and your report of everything that was happening in the world markets, everything that was concluded by the financial institutions of other central banks that would happen with commodity, you were aware of what would make the final change in the tax policy of this government as regards prices and my simple question is whether you are aware that the increase in the price of basic products does not affect those who have a salary of 20,000 kuna as those who have a salary of 4,000 kuna. What have you done in stabilising the prices that your task is to those basic products of life?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61780	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61781	No, I absolutely think about tax policy if you're thinking about excise duties, we're always installing excise traffic into our forecast inflation. And as for basic products, the State Statistics Office tracks over 900 products throughout the country, we have our same method in the CNB which is a little shorter and faster gives us results where we practically get prices from the largest wholesale, retail chains of the type Konzum, Spara, etc., what you see is that you have a large asymmetry in changing prices now can also show you or send material to see you have a small number of products that are very rising price and a larger number of products that are stable or some even falling. If it is some products that are related to, say, import prices or the bad weather situation we had in the spring, it has led to an increase in fruit and vegetable prices, then it is really very difficult to make in short a deadline something. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61782	Governor, I'd like you to hold on for one minute, so all MPs. And MPs should stick to the minutes [[I'm sorry.]] You've got to hold on, too. [[I'm sorry.]] Comrade Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61783	Good afternoon. The governor was already mentioned in the debate that the CNB is officially aimed at having price stability, maintaining price stability. It says the objectives of monetary policy, and I quote the maintenance of price stability is the primary objective of the CNB. But it's not defined in what percentages, so you mentioned that at year level there's about 2.3% inflation, the ECB means the European Central Bank has you said 2% of that limit, why CNB doesn't have an explicit targeting of some inflation rate and can you precisely define that stability. You also had deflator episodes during your term of office from 2014 to 2016, is it by you a deflation of stability?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61784	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61785	Here, that's, that's a good question, I'm going to have a hard time answering it again in a minute, but that's why there's no inflation target as explicitly as there are countries that target inflation because we target the course. You can't have each other. You cannot have the objective of exchange rate stability and inflation stability at the same time is it incompatible. So we focus on the stability of the course because it is more important for Croatia. We're a small, open, high-euroized country. The objective of the European Central Bank is 2 and a symmetric range of around 2 where inflation is tolerated when something exceeds 2% and is tolerated when it falls below 2%, especially if it was below 2%. As far as deflation is concerned, we don't consider it price stability. Deflation is not good, but as I explained then, deflation is particularly bad if it starts to create deflation expectations that are dragging into the spiral the price that we didn't have. However, we had a very expansional monetary policy that eventually led to inflation where the central banks had it. and target, and that's at 2%. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61786	Comrade Miletić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61787	Dear Governor, I think it's important here to talk about another dimension. In the last 15 years, our salary has increased by 2,015 kunas, but 15 years ago our people paid 3 kunas, today bread costs 7 kuna. 15 years ago, we could buy milk for 3 kuna, today milk is 7 kuna. I'm interested in what you're doing in that sense, so raising a quality salary in the Republic and making sure we don't talk here about any luxury, we're talking about basic supplies, about the basic needs of our citizens, and that's why we don't want to be some kind of wizard, we'd like to get down here, we land, and don't mind this, it turns out that I know that your job is very responsible, and nobody reasonable would question it, but our prime minister has a salary of 20,000 kuna, you're the only one who successfully raised the salary of more than 41,000 kuna net. And in the first month. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61788	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61789	I completely agree with you, but it's very much about this question that we had before. We maintain price stability and allow Croatia's wages to rise faster than prices. The standard of living in Croatia is increasing and this is fundamental, so it is the basic role of the central bank and that it maintains stable business conditions. Both for employers who can then raise salaries and for citizens who do not have a situation to face high inflation rates that would erodify their standard of living. And we've been keeping it going for as long as you know for 28 years, it's going to be 28 years soon as we have such a policy and we're doing it successfully.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61790	Comrade Petrov, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61791	Mr. Vujčić, your job through monetary policy is either directly or indirectly to reduce the punches on the citizens' wallet through inflation growth, price growth, interest growth, credit. Your job isn't just to analyze, your job is to Anticipate potential problems and prevent potential problems. That's your job. I am now interested in what you have done in particular in the last month, at least, about all the tectonic disorders that you yourself mention happening globally, from China, India, Great Britain, America, or you will tell us in 2008, as the former Finance Minister Shucker told us that we are not concerned because our economy is independent because the EU will help us. What I can see you haven't done anything. Prices rise in the sky, energy prices rise in the sky, and we had to force you as MOST to appear in the Croatian Parliament today and answer these questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61792	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61793	You don't have to force me to do anything I'll be happy to answer your questions, you have a call to the CNB that I've been telling you for years, you've never come to discuss any questions I've called you to. So I'm always here for you to answer your questions. As far as this question is concerned, I agree, we have done nothing about what is happening in China, the United States, and the UK, we are doing what is happening in Croatia and what we have influence on. For example. Last year when we had a strong attack on the currency domestically, when we had an attack on a Croatian sovereign debt that could have disastrous consequences for the standard of life of a Croatian citizen we reacted in such a way that we successfully stabilised the market and.../incomprehensible/... that Croatian citizens did not experience the fall of standards they would experience otherwise. If you had a devaluation of Croatian currency then the debt of all Croatian sectors and citizens and businesses would have increased by more than 50 billion kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61794	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, my colleague Petrov, be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61795	Article 238 was injured because I feel that Mr. Vujčić is insulting and demeaning me because he doesn't need to invite me to the CNB he should come to the Croatian Parliament and take the bills. And the truth is that this report has been in the Croatian Parliament for over a year now, Mr. Vujčić, you haven't expressed your wish once, no. The MOST was supposed to collect 31 signatures for you to appear here today. That's right, that's true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61796	My colleague Petrov, you know for a fact that you deserve a reminder because what you feel is not a reason to be a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and I will now, please, there is obviously some misunderstanding which is a violation of the Rules of Procedure and which are the reasons for expressing the strict measures, I will now read the article. 238. Don't be angry, those who know him, but I think it's very important for the Croatian public to know the content of this article. 238. Therefore, the reasons for the forwarding of the tight measures, the representative, during the debate, must not talk about a subject which is not subject to discussion, speak without prior approval of the president, his incursions or otherwise distracting the speaker, and what is particularly important now, begin to talk about another subject he did not receive, if he reported for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. So that's what was the dispute, whether I should point out or not; demean or insult the presidents or other MPs, take my conduct aside from the general rules of conduct in the Assembly or otherwise disrupt the order at the session. I'm asking you to stick to it, we voted it alone here at HS, and I'm asking you to stick to the Rules of Procedure. Otherwise, the presidents must make warnings. Let's move on now, colleague Hajdash Doncic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61797	Thank you. I cannot agree with you that the introduction of the euro is structural reform, you have noted, structural reform can be, for example, health and pension reforms. Whether the introduction of the euro can help or cannot, then, help. A few more facts. I think we should look back on probably that program... From that 1.85 million euros, so it ends in 2022 in December, right? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's a bond buyout. We should also look at the fact that the Fedwatch announces the likely rise in interest rates, interest rates, to be exact and that this surplus of money that exists on the world market actually contributed to the high growth of real estate... real-estate balloon, people invest in real estate, so there are definitely reflections in Croatia next year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't mean the intruding of the euro. So what's my question, actually? You'll be left with foreign reserves, international reserves Where will you hide them, where will you hide the coffin... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] /Intruder: Thank you very much./ [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61798	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61799	Good question this last one. So it's about us also, as far as the profit and loss accounts of the CNB don't match these interest rates, we're also paying negative interest rates on international reserves where we keep them in liquid form. However, we had a very good management policy... The reserves thanks to our people who do this, where we in time put away some of the funds in... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] the part in... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] portfolio and they carry us offerings now and then. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But the longer and the longer this policy of negative interest rates takes, the harder it is to find, as I say, a bag of accounting tricks becomes increasingly, smaller and, of course, for anyone who has money, it is negatively reflected. But where's the good thing about getting into the Eurozone? When we get into the Eurozone, we can park that money in Target 2 by 0. So we're not paying negatives, so that's even and in this respect for Croatia well and for the CNB. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61800	Comrade Doncic, please. Comrades of Juričev-Martinchev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61801	Thank you, Your Honor, to the Governor, in this Report, and in your presentation among other things, you spoke about the labour market, the number of employees, unemployed, salaries, etc. Tell me your assumptions about what would be the situation on the labour market if the government hadn't intervened with 8 billion kunas and secured about 700 thousand workers per 4 thousand kuna of salary, 120 thousand employers used that measure and were secured, or freed from payment of contributions. Also, numerous entrepreneurs from the closed sector were provided for them to cover all fixed costs, etc. What would be the situation and how would it affect price stability?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61802	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61803	Like I said, if it hadn't been for that fiscal support, we could have expected a lot more contracts to be broken, so... Much higher and more likely, since we have rigidity on that market now would not already return to employment that was higher than in 2019. In this respect, it means it is well used money although it has increased public debt, it has allowed us to return to that ‘V’ form quickly to pre-crisis levels and even above those pre-crisis levels [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You know, one reference you can, excuse me, if I can just? [[Intruder: fellow Sačić.]] The reference if you want to look at the counterfact is if you look at that crisis in 2009 when the unemployment rate went much higher and when we had over 200 thousand unemployed, or contract termination [[Intruder: Yes, yes, you can.]] when there were no such... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61804	Comrade Sacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61805	Dear Governor, I'm not going to ask you about your eclectic responsibility regarding the shameful and criminal tolerance of our financial market to the franc, the responsibilities of the CNB for the fraud relationship of Raiffeisen or RBA savings-credit cooperatives, about the terrible and embarrassing act of selling gold reserves of Croatian, but I'm going to ask you, I'm going to ask you a question about what kind of exit strategy you have today-to-morrow because, hopefully, the referendum will succeed, through some period, we're going to introduce indeed that euro in the far future, what is the function of the CNB, and will you just turn into an administrative branch of European central monetary authorities or have another idea?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61806	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61807	Thank you for not asking me all these questions that you said at the beginning, I have answered them many times and answered them in the House, but as far as this last question is concerned, I can tell you that we as the CNB will be part of the European System of Central Banks, I will sit on the Council of the Governing European Central Bank and decide equally because there is no scale of the country or GDP, so one vote has German, one has Croatia, on the monetary policy of the second largest currency in the world. Therefore, the CNB will also play a significant role in the European monetary policy in this respect.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61808	Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61809	I thank Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Governor. In the past 9 months, 8-9 months Croatia has been among the European countries with the lowest inflation rate, among 5-6 countries with the lowest inflation rate and is probably one of the reasons why energy prices in Croatia except for oil, as you said yourself, has not increased. It is your estimate that this year in Croatia will be with 2.3 rates of inflation, and the next one you planned, you predict at 2.1. At the same time, we hear that there is a potential increase in energy, above all gas and electricity, which, consequently, could lead to price increases, then inflation. How optimistic did you tell us that... about 2.1 years somewhere, what are your elements, mechanisms that you would be able to hold inflation at such a low rate compared to other EU Member States? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61810	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61811	So what's our biggest reason for this inflation projection in 2022. It's going to disappear this base effect from the 2021 energy growth. So the biggest contribution, farthest of all, is the rise in inflation this year in Croatia and the rise in energy prices in the first half of the year that occurred compared to 2020 when those energy prices went down. Now we have risks like I said at the beginning, but these risks are in everything, in the current... But if we look at the market, where are the market prices... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Ten-dollar range. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not important and we don't see that much of a risk. What CNB will do since these are import prices primarily of energy, maintain exchange rate stability and even mild appreciation, the course can always help to mitigate import prices. So if inflationary pressure comes from the outside, exchange rate policy in a country such as Croatia can do to mitigate somewhat, not entirely, of course, but at these levels where we speak these import pressures.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61812	Thank you. Comrade Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61813	Thank you very much, governor. Here's all the simple questions and I'll tell you why. So, in 2023, are we really going to enter the euro area and introduce the EURo or are we just trying and what are the benefits of introducing the EUR for our citizens, workers, employers, tourist workers and everyone else, meaning that they contribute to the development of the Republic of Croatia? Why would I ask that? Because we listen here from our colleagues that we are not currently meeting certain criteria, and we hear that there is also a referendum on the kuna led by the Sovereign Party, as of yesterday we hear that MOST also supports this referendum. We know that there are parties who don't have an opinion on it, and that's something that will certainly interest us in these next two months, and you're the important person who has to interpret what it brings us, whether we're trying or going in. introduce EUR-o into the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61814	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61815	Our goal is to enter 1.1.2023, we will know the answer to the question only for the summer of next year, and... sometime in the 5th month have clear indications whether all the criteria of the Mastrek have been met. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think we have a very good chance of meeting all these Mastreka criteria. Our inflation rate as projected, as we used to say, is at the euro area level, so their projection 2.3 is our projection 2.3. What are the advantages are primarily the removal of currency risk which is huge in Croatia, means most of the debt of all sectors of the population, businesses, countries are indexed to EUR, which is a very high risk, and if it does, I say 10% to the depreciation of the kuna rate over 50 billion kuna increases the debt of all sectors in Croatia. We move this from the table, make Croatia more attractive for investment, interest drops, Croatian rating rises, so rating agencies have announced an explicit... that it will increase Croatia's rating by 2 degrees only as a consequence of entry into the euro area, etc. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61816	Thank you very much. Comrade Bencic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61817	Thank you. Your Honor, I have a question about the role of the CNB in the supervision of credit institutions regarding the obligation of credit institutions to sell consumer claims, so consumer loans to the Agency for the collection of claims that they must ensure one degree of protection for these consumers as consumers had when they had a contract with a credit institution. So, for years, it's been a real pain for our citizens because of the way the demand agencies literally follow them. I wonder what the CNB has done from research how many banks really provide the same standard of consumer protection? Why didn't we get that report if you were doing anything and investigating it? And why has the CNB never so far, and may propose regulation of the Agency for the collection of claims in the sense that they are bound by the same laws as the credit financial institutions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61818	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61819	That, the fact that what you say is absolutely correct, so we made our decision right at the beginning when the first sales of demand to the agencies appeared, precisely because the more we protect consumers. But as such, we agencies don't regulate, control, and we don't have that authority. However, it is not only a problem for Croatia, it is so throughout the EU and this, we are talking about it at European level and is currently in preparation for a directive that will regulate it. So it can't be regulated on its own now, but it's a directive that's being passed. It will soon be brought and this area is well regulated at European level, which will increase consumer protection again.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61820	Comrade Vrkljan, you did not get the word, excuse me, Kristo Vidović, colleague Vrkljan is now up... No, no, my mistake, I was counting on you, and then a colleague called Vidovic Kristo who was talking, and then I got mixed up. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Here's your colleague, Vrkljan. Here you go, colleague Vrkljan, it's your turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61821	May I?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61822	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61823	Dear Governor, I am deeply convinced that you, with the Minister of Finance, are the best informed man on financial flows today in the Republic of Croatia, so I am going to ask you a question I hope you will give me a concrete answer. Last year, in Croatia, companies that do not have any employees received 27 billion kuna, such as one budget of the Republic of Croatia for the health system for the whole year. Do you know that there is such a financial market in Europe and that you are concerned about it? If you're not worried enough, that says enough about you, and if you're worried about what you're worried about?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61824	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61825	Well, that's really a question for my colleague from the Ministry of Finance, and we don't even collect or get it, which is what I would say most of the question for Zdravko Marić who will definitely come here, so you can ask him. We don't have that information. ... No, that's what he's got, that's what the Treasury is going to have. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61826	Thank you, Mr. Governor, you can go back to your seat and we're done with the replicas. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? A representative of the government? No, then I'll open the debate now. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Mosta and the esteemed colleague Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61827	Three key issues that we need to discuss today because today is not about some abstract topics concerning part of Croatian citizens, today it is about the life problems of all Croatian citizens. Unfortunately, when I talk about the life problems of all Croatian citizens, I am not sure that the idea of social sensitivity is shared by everyone with whom we should enter dialogue here because we could hear from the governor that 50 kuna is no longer or less a problem for Croatian citizens. However, I would like to remind you that your research has shown that 840,000 Croatian citizens use the quiet minuses, or that 95% of Croatian citizens who use the minuses benefit from the quiet minuses, all this tells us about the financial situation of Croatian citizens and even more than those on poverty research in Croatia that warn that every fourth citizen of the Republic of Croatia is at risk of poverty. The link between this and the subject of silenced excesses, which is the first question that we need to solve here, concerns the responsibilities of those who should have warned on time about the problem. You said that supervisory even though in law in art. 4. The CNB law says it's in the jurisdiction of the CNB I'll warn you that you said that supervisory is not what is in your jurisdiction. However, if the supervisory system is not in your jurisdiction, how is it possible that you have come to this data at all and later presented it to us, and then decided to take concrete steps to reduce over-the-counter overruns or to regulate it on the market? On what basis did you decide to withdraw those moves? Is this about a survey ticket filled with Croatian banks? What is missing from Croatia is a responsibility, when a problem like this shows that we have not learned anything from the Swiss case, no one is responsible for these system failures, and I must note that you are just continuing the usual series, and you could, as an independent institution, jump out of the average. So, the association with silent overruns that indicate how dramatic the situation is, the financial situation of Croatian citizens is the topic of inflation. In the topic of inflation, we expect one key message from you, which is a message of security because the law again requires an article. 3. that you are here to maintain price stability. I'll remind you what you said about inflation. 17.6. this year's Leader, we do not need to worry about inflation, the projection for Croatia is 1.7% of inflation this year. Several months later, the 30.9th Conference "The Financial Market", inflation could be accelerated to 2.3%, and later perhaps slightly slowed down. So in a few months you've already changed your projection. Inflation is a life issue, inflation is concrete, if today oil costs 13 kuna, and in August it increased by 17.4% towards the DZS that means if it grows like that it will cost 17 kuna tomorrow. It's a basic food used by all our citizens. You have changed your projections on inflation, where there is a guarantee of safety for Croatian construction and how can we trust your projection today if we know that the world market situation is dramatic, quite serious? And let us not pretend that Croatia is an island in space, what is happening on the world market is likely not only to affect Croatia but also to reflect it worse than it is in developed economies. We must also remind ourselves of the responsibility of these inflationary pressures that lie in the epidemiological measures that have greatly affected the situation of inflation and created this inflationary pressure, and it will also continue to be affected in detail by the money that we will receive from the EU, mentioning that we will withdraw 6.3 billion euros from the EU, and our costs should be more than 2.2 billion euros, which is already one third of the grants that Croatia is withdrawing from the EU. And finally, on the issue of the euro, I'm just going to say a few sentences, we know, and you said yourself that it's not over until it's over in the Croatian media, that we don't know if we're going to be able to meet the master criteria because of inflation. In that sense, you are expected to receive a key message of reality because everyone in Croatia behaves as if we are entering the Eurozone tomorrow, and you should send a message that we will only see if it is possible at all. In the end, I'll just say one thing, that you're invited here to a dialogue and you can speak freely after my presentation and respond to all these questions that I've raised here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61828	It will continue on behalf of the Representatives' Club Mosta respected representative Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61829	Dear vice president of HS, respected colleagues and colleagues and respected peoples who look at us through the screen. I don't know where this energy optimism came from recently, Christine Lagarde said that we had moved away from the flood of economics in which we are not, however, not seeing that light in the tunnel that was the last conference she participated in as President of the European Bank. And why is that? Whoever says the north flow has not yet opened in northern Germany with Russia, who says it will open so quickly and who says Russia will deliver gas to Europe if China pays that gas more. Who says that? Based on what projections do we have, we're building this optimism? If, on the other hand, these energy costs are going to increase by EUR 2.2 billion, that means we will automatically reduce the withdrawn tranche by looking at it realistically. You say the Croatian Employers' Association? The Croatian Employers' Association is quite struggling with energy inflation in its balance sheets, which the governor neither speaks about nor the National Bank, and these companies are very likely to because of the competition topping this into the cost of costing products and services may have failed. Then what do we do? Because the inflations found in their financial reports have no place to spill, it grows constantly so now it is already predicted fordwards and futures that have said here EUR 119 buys gas per magavat. Not to mention the construction of our energy, we say that money, the tranche has been withdrawn to the INU, which is why, if not built, if new concession land are not purchased, for example in Angola, where it's completely already drained, if you don't buy stations in North Africa, in Egypt for example, new concessions where we're going to draw oil and gas on which basis the money goes to INI. So that's energy policy now. For electricity, for electricity not to speak, because Croatia is building hydropower plants on the mountain streams that kill people. It's a reality. I'm just saying the price of energy and electricity so you don't leave the topic. Regarding, the good question was asked by Mr. Boric, here is the honor and is not answered realistically. You know what the situation is, currently at the 8th month inflation was 3.1% of Maastricht criteria say the average of three least inflations in Europe plus 1.5% should be the criterion or the maximum inflation in Croatia. So we're much more than that criterion that the Maastricht criteria set, and we've been waiting for six, seven, eight months now for the 9th month to see how we meet that criterion. And the question is whether or not we're going to fill him in. When we talk about the introduction of the EUR, I was surprised that the answer was the structural reform of the Croatian economy that will change as it enters the EURo. So let's not be naive. So, we, it'll just be moving a transactional one-cost bill for, for exporters. Because careful imports of exports will not change with the introduction of the EUR and we continue to import 60% of our GDP, exporting 40. What Mr. Governor and the whole team are about to do is do something that Greece has welcomed. And this is that the Dutch have asked for the period of the fresh milk to be increased from 4 to 11 days so that they can then import genetically modified milk and drink then it is.../incomprehensible/... from genetically modified milk. That's what Stigitz was saying in his Euro book, that's what's waiting for us. And we're being warned about some kind of structural change in the economy. No matter what structural change of economy. It's a terrible thing to talk about some currency risks. The currency risk is one component of the total risk premium that has a minimum of 5 components. No one's talking about, oh, the reputation risk of Croatia. For example, you want to start a company in Croatia with a person with maybe double citizenship, you invest, he steals, he goes to BiH and you can't collect your claim. No one's talking about those risks. And what do you think will change when it enters the euro, in the Eurozone? It will not change because the structural issue of the Croatian economy is not resolved, but only enters the Eurozone without us being structurally prepared, without increasing production, reducing production costs and reducing the asymmetric Croatian economy, that we are service-oriented instead of focusing on production.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61830	Thank you. The next club of MPs will be the Croatian sovereigns, and the respected representative Vesna Vucilovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61831	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Governor with his associates, I'm sorry the Secretary of State left because what we're talking about today is very much about the Ministry of Finance. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we all know that last year has been a burden, full of uncertainty and facing new threats that have been in history and will be in the future. The reaction to these new circumstances has brought us here for good where we are today and not only Croatia but the whole world. And this whole world is actually mired into these benefits of global flows is probably forgotten about what every student of the first year of economics learns, and that the state has to take care of two important components of the economy, which are energy and food because they are of strategic importance. Let us remember the problems of supplying trucks that have been standing and waiting at the borders, closings, restrictions on movement, etc., all of this has led to these disorders that we are reading about today, and the consequences are being felt. Therefore, these rates of growth that are being praised today should also be seen in the context of last year and GDP decline, which was significantly higher than the EU average, but also in the environment. I'll remind you that Serbia had a decline of only 1%, and the projections for this year are not 1, but 6%. This is a projection of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Croatia will be happy if it reaches pre-pandemic 2019. Therefore, we also need to look at this report in this context, and we need to look at several elements that are important to our citizens today, not last year. One problem that I have also warned in the replica and which is being imposed this year is the issue of consumer prices and inflation that has a trend in growth. Last year we recorded negative inflation, -0.7%, this year that's not the case. It started with the prices of construction materials, import raw materials, and it will definitely spill over to all the products next year, and some have already been poured over. Soybeans, corn, cereals will be converted to food prices. It is similar with the price of energy that is only here in the 9th month compared to the month of August this year increased 40.3%. Does the governor have a mechanism to stop price growth? Is the CNB the only place to discuss these issues? The CNB law is clear, Art. 3. says the CNB must work to maintain price stability, but according to this it must also lead a restrictive or expansional monetary policy. Since the 1970s, the independence of monetary policy and the fight against inflation has been priority number one. In doing so, we must be aware of how restrictive monetary policy temporarily sacrifices other goals that are very important to us, which is full employment and economic growth, for example. And therefore, I am not surprised at the caution not only of our governor but also of the other governors when they talk about inflation and the causes of inflation. Their statements also have a powerful psychological effect and we must never forget that. What we hear today, which is that the main causes of inflation are shooting supply chains, pandemics, climate change, but if so, we have to ask ourselves. Since the last financial crisis, monetary expansion has been present and must not be ignored. It's a lot easier for me to talk about than for the governor, but my words don't have as much weight as his, but this report says when it comes to monetary policy in the second half of 2020. The central banks of the world's largest economies continued to implement a highly expansional monetary policy. I stress the word “sufficient” because we must remember the words of Mary Dragi when he said... All it takes to restart the growth of the economy was the policy that banks implemented after the financial crisis in 2008-2009. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Due to the monetary expansion, a period of extremely low interest rates occurred, but the story soon ends. Therefore, this argument that by entering the euro area and introducing EUR, interest will not generally stand. The US Central Bank announces the rise in the interest rate for next year, which automatically means that the interest rates in the EU will grow and the period of cheap money ends, whether we like it or not, is what it is. Whether inflation will be a passing character as we are convinced or the danger that we have witnessed in history, and we are a little older than we remember, is not entirely dependent on Governor Vujcic but rather on Minister Maric or the Ministry of Finance who currently has a little more leverage that can curb price growth. The question is, is there a political will for it? I'm going to give you a simple example, and that's the price of motor fuels, and that's where you see it best. So it's enough to reduce the share of excise duty, introduce for example. swimming excise duties to lower the price for our citizens, for the end consumer, but the minister does not. The prime minister says we follow prices, so we follow them every day when we get to the gas station. Why doesn't he do it while the prices are rising, the state's register is filling up. For the Treasury, this is a situation that reduces the minus and is even desirable. For citizens, of course, it's not because the state is going to cut the deficit a little deeper into their pockets to make up. Let us not forget that Croatia has the highest share of VAT in the budget of all EU countries. That is exactly the tax that is most unfair because it is paid equally by all, and those who have received 40, 20 or 10,000 kuna, but also by pensioners with a pension of 2,500 kuna or workers who work for a minimumer. The document ahead of us said that in the second half the state of finances, the overall deficit or deficit was 7.4% of GDP and 27.5 billion kuna respectively. That's three Peles Bridges. The debt exploded at an absolute amount and increased to nearly 330 billion kuna. The report noted the decline in exports that was conditioned by the poor tourist season and the decline in the export of services, but the export of goods increased during the same period, so it would be wise to turn to the start of production once and for several reasons, this is only one. Mostly because of the supply chain problems, part of the production is returning to Europe. In this way, they would turn to other sectors other than tourism, stop counting tourists every year from June to September, create new jobs, start production, and keep the population in areas such as Slavonia, Baranja and Banovina. The report further states that in the second half of 2020, the CNB maintained a high degree of expansion of monetary policy and adopted a series of measures that preserved the stability of the kuna exchange rate according to the EUR, provided sufficient kuna and foreign currency liquidity, secured stability, etc. Last year, the CNB placed long-term kuna funds with banks through auctions of structural operations, the first one was held in March, the second in November at an interest rate of 0.25%. The reserve rate was at 9%, previously 12%. So that's how the banks got another $6.34 billion in additional funding. Did the banks place it in the economy? No, ladies and gentlemen. The only funds available to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs last year were through HAMAG-BICRO, who also had problems, and according to Minister Coric, the stalemate lasted several months. It emphasizes the high liquidity of the banking system from which the economy is ultimately not too useful, the banks are very skilled and with the glare of the CNB not on one but on two eyes, placed funds with interest rates on average 10%, and went up to 17% to citizens in the form of overruns, but as I am running out of time I will do something more in an individual debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61832	The next club of MPs will be the HDZ, and a respected representative, Branko Juričev-Martinchev, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61833	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, honoring the governor with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So this half-year information on the financial situation, the degree of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy in the second half of 2020 will support the HDZ Club. As we can see, this report refers to the period during which the covida-19 disease pandemic has negatively affected domestic economic activity and thus all segments and parameters in this report. However, it should be recalled that everything is done to alleviate the crisis and that the situation and many are not as catastrophic and as we heard in the opening statement that we return to those parameters and figures before the crisis and those record figures as soon as possible. In fact, only for job conservation and part-time measures have the government provided eight billion kuna for about 70,000 workers and 120,000 employers. In 2020, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/35 on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Union and the European Union and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the European Economic Community, the European Union and the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation and the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss The tourist season, although expected to be around 30% of the year 2019, reached almost 50%. About 100% of the more Euro funds projects that have begun to be implemented have been agreed. According to the report, Croatia's real GDP in the second half of 2020. It was reduced by 8.8% compared to the same period in 2019 and as we have said, the effect is the negative impact of the pandemic. However, the state has strongly stood behind the private sector, Croatian workers and Croatian employers. Support covers practically every other job in the Republic of Croatia. There are about 70,000 jobs or 92% or 120,000 companies and employers. In the biggest crisis that has hit everyone in the last hundred years, the Croatian government has made it possible for us to overcome this situation and to avoid firing workers and to avoid waves of bankruptcy, thus jeopardising the existence of Croatian families. Croatia today has 6,000 employees more than last year. By the end of 2020, eight billion kunas were paid for the job conservation measure only, and 18 billion kuna has been invested to preserve all jobs in covid and all that has happened so far. The most reductions as seen in the second half of 2020 are exports of services, which is primarily due to the negative impact of the pandemic on tourist activities and the reduced activity recorded in service activities where this close contact in business such as trade, transport, accommodation, preparation and food service is needed. However, in the year 2020, as I said, a 50% drop was expected, although it was expected to be between 25 and 35% of the record 2019 level. It should not be forgotten that international tourism traffic data from the World Tourism Organisation has dropped 74%, which means that our 50% drop can be satisfied with it. We are also happy in this 2021 in the first nine months that we have achieved 80 million nights, which is almost 80% record 2019. In the second half of 2020, a strong decline in personal consumption that reflects again the negative impact of the pandemic of inability, as well as the tendency of our citizens. Physical distance measures have been introduced that have limited the provision of certain services, household consumption has decreased, and citizens' efforts to reduce the risk of profit, but also the growth of uncertainty following the deterioration of the economic situation. However, also in June 2020, employment growth began by reflecting the recovery of economic activity as well as the employees of approximately pre-crisis values. On the contrary, capital investments and the consumption of the general government during that period were higher than in the same period of 2019 as a consequence of the increase in fees to an increase in the number of working hours in health, etc. The second half of 2020 continued to worsen the state finances, which is, of course, the continuation of the negative impact of the crisis, as well as the impact of the measures taken by the government. In this period, partial recovery occurs in tourism-related activities, with the exception of the stated movement of income from indirect taxes and the second half affected tax changes in the VAT system. Namely, the reduction in the rate to 13% for preparing and serving meals and desserts in the catering certainly reflected regardless of how little tourism and production, service, accommodation and so on. However, by amending the tax rules, the amount poured into the state budget was lower. In the 4th round of the tax reform of 1 January 2020, a personal deduction was also increased in the income tax system and the number of taxpayers of the profit tax paid at a reduced rate. In the 4th round, nine laws were amended, and thus the citizens and entrepreneurs were disbursed by 2.4 billion kuna, a total of 9 billion kuna with earlier release. In contrast to the tax revenue developments mentioned above, the other revenues recorded a significant growth in the second half of the year, but of course they can't be as fast or as large as those of the expenditure on measures and this, these tax changes have led to a reduction in the revenues of the state budget. The increase in other revenues reflects the growth in the withdrawal of funds from EU funds. Here, now we're 50 billion kunas in plus i.e. the difference between the payments and the money allocated from the EU budget of as much as 50 billion kuna. So far, over EUR 13 billion has been agreed, although we know that, in the financial perspective by 2020, we have at our disposal EUR 10.7 billion, and some 6.5 billion has been paid. We believe that the fully agreed amount will be realised by this amount at our disposal over the next two years. The expenditure also increased mainly due to the cost of subsidies, reflecting the continued payment of employers' support with a view to preserving jobs. Investments have also increased more intensively through the implementation of EU-funded infrastructure projects. It means that there is virtually no project financed in 100% of the amount from EU funds, so we also need our transport and resources from the state budget. The recovery of material damage caused by the earthquake has also begun. This was also almost not mentioned today that this too required significant resources and expenditure on the item. Furthermore, by obtaining additional medical equipment in state-owned health institutions due to the pandemic. In this direction, expenditure on social benefits was also affected by the growth in unemployment payments. We had an indexation of pensions, and previously there was an increase in the financial resources for parent status of carers and carers with disabled persons, disability. The benefits also increased by employees reflecting 2% of the pay base increase in the public sector as of 1 January 2020. And the largest part of the budget rebalancing from November 2020 has been re-scheduled to support jobs. As for banks here, we can say that they have eased the standards of granting loans to the population after a strong tightening in the first half of the year. Those relating to the population as they continued to tighten credit approval standards to businesses, however, free money was the highest in 2020. And this is mainly by keeping most of the interest rates at the lowest levels ever similar to those before the pandemic. This report, looking at this report, should not forget how much effort the Government of the Republic of Croatia has made, which is all done in order to get back to those parameters and figures that we had in pre-crisis years because if such interventions were not likely and the number of employees would be far smaller, far more unemployed, leaving the Republic of Croatia, and then certainly there would be an even worse reflection on the state's financial situation, price stability and our monetary policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61834	Thank you. The next club will be that of HSS and the Workers' Front, and will be spoken by the respected representative Katarina Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61835	Good afternoon, everyone. As I said in my replica means I will repeat, the CNB has an official price stability course, literally standing in the programme principles of maintaining price stability, and the CNB's main goal is as they say the objectives of monetary policy. But as we have determined, this is not defined by the percentages at year level and the governor has confirmed now that inflation is 2.3% in us. The European Central Bank, for example, has that two percent limit. So I asked the governor why the CNB doesn't have an explicit targeting of an inflation rate, and could it define exactly what that famous stability would mean to him if it means we don't control either inflation or deflation. I also mentioned whether these deflator episodes were in your term of office between '14-'16. And I asked you what it's like for you, what you think about deflation, if it's some kind of stability. And now that was a more rhetorical question. But you answered me really correctly, and the CNB said that you focused on maintaining a stable course and that you couldn't do both. You can't control deflation from one side and a stable course from the other, but that's the problem for us eating from our perspective. So the CNB chose the stability of the course to achieve some goals, on the other hand it doesn't regulate means neither inflation, nor deflation, which is what we see now the price of the product rises, but what's even more problematic for us, and that's what this means in these deflator episodes, is the drop in the labour price. So the drop in prices means the drop in labour prices and that's the problem, right? This is unfortunately the basis under the allegations of the HDZ development policy. internal devaluation, yes. Devaluation means a drop in labour price, labour force, that means in translation, and completely simplified means lower wages. And why does it mean lower wages, more unstable working conditions, less jobs, by the way, and when it comes to increasing employment, and you mention it, I think we should include the number of insurance companies, and we don't get a very real percentage of the employment rate, but good. What's crucial here, to simplify it, is that it's a fall in the labour price. This is the way HDZ and its entry into the euro is meant to achieve competitiveness again under quotes. So internal devaluation along with a stable course will bring us down to the pool of cheap labour and the Western economy product market to make it simpler, completely. And it's actually the governor who answered me and just not of course those words to say it here, deflation is not good you said, but it did happen, we don't control it because we chose to control the stability of the course. Deflation is therefore by HDZ, so also by the governor's way of getting close to the euro area centre, but it's from our perspective a devastating one. A reduction in prices, meaning especially a reduction in the labour price does not guarantee this famous life and that we live in a phenomenal country, do we now see something that I'm going to say a little bit more about and later if I arrive or in free speech, which means inflation with us today. So here, this issue brings to the question of the EUR and again it is a rhetorical question, is it not true that by entering the euro zone for us the only way to adapt the Croatian economy just means again through internal devaluation or deflation of prices? We will enter the euro without any impact analysis on our economy, and only competitiveness will result in pressure on workers. That is why the issue of moving to the euro should be raised, as it is again a further reduction in the possibility of autonomous and democratically-founded economic policy. A democratically-founded means politics for the working social majority, right. With the absence of a European fiscal union, because the major problem of structural inequality between the national economies of the centre and the national economies of the periphery whose capital is more inferior in the common European market will be further strengthened and deepened because practically the only mechanism to mitigate the imbalance of the trade balance and the balance of payments in peripheral economies such as Croatia will be so-called. the internal devaluation or reduction of labour and labour rights prices, while cutting public consumption of social transfers of public investment, In other words, the transition to the euro means an even greater poverty of most people in Croatia. Moving to the euro means further giving up on autonomous and democratic development management. This is what happened in Greece, as well as in other peripheral countries of the European South united under the demeaning acronym pics. The existence of its own currency is a premise for overcoming structural inequalities between the centre and the periphery, and this division is already recognised by European bureaucrats who talk about this Europe two speeds of food. The national currency is necessary in order to use the leverages of macroeconomic policy, monetary and exchange rate, of course, the existence of its own currency in itself is not enough, which clearly demonstrates today's CNB policy, exclusively by focusing on exchange rate stability and prices rather than on the objectives of increasing employment, production and meeting needs. The policies of the CNB and commercial banks which are allowed currency clauses to credit policy is a subordinated link to the EURo, with logic which ensures the interests of the creditors in the common market, and they are primarily the interests of the financial and production capital of the central countries, of which imports and of which are borrowed and whose ownership interests must be protected. However, the question can also be asked why to object at all against entering the euro if we have already highly euroed the kuna, and yet it is one of the key backs of a possible shift in economic policy, as we have seen in Greece, that can be very difficult to reverse and then move from some starting position that we would have in case we don't move to the EUR. I'm going to say a little more about the inflation of these prices that we're currently following, so at first I reminded you of what many today know that consumer prices in Croatia towards the National Statistics Office in August have increased 3.1% at the annual level and this is the highest inflation rate since 2013, it's also been a huge increase at the monthly level, and the biggest price increase is recorded in the fuel and oil category, meaning as much as 19%, which is actually expected to increase, an even higher increase in other products. Now what we'd like to stress here, so one of the most important economic figures in the post-World War II period, John Menard Kenzie recommended to the capitalists, so to speak, that in moments the profit rates don't break the nominal wage because workers will rebel because of the lower salary. The solution is to increase the prices of the product, which will make the same thing, but without people noticing. We can't reflect this on our condition, this is still the situation after World War II, but the simplified thing is what happened to us, especially to the pensioners, let's say if we look at their position now, they've lost real purchasing power again, so what happened? The pensioners recently voted means that pension increases by 2.46%, and what does that mean to them if we have a 3.1% price increase? It exceeds the amount of that raise so they're in the same trouble again. So we can say that current inflation and the increase in energy prices can be reflected and reflected already on other products, and what is worst will be shifted to the backs of the weakest and most vulnerable consumers, i.e. the working population. Assuming that the damage to inflation is distributed differently and that is possible, it is also limited by us having to admit that we do not have organised employment that Croatia lacks, especially in the private sector, and what would be the solution now? So the solution would be to index wages, if there was an increase in prices then there should be an increase in wages, but we don't have that pay indexing rule or wage binding with a rise in prices. So, that's going to be, in any case, going down on the back of those most sensitive groups. I can only say that even in our context we have some differences in the reaction to such inflations, which I will say more about in free speech and these differences in the response to inflation I think we can also learn a lot from and direct us to whose side fiscal and monetary policy stands today. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61836	The next club of representatives will be that of the Centre and GLAS, and a respected representative, Marijana Puljak, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61837	I would like to thank the chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, respected to the governor and colleagues. I will here, just a few words, for the beginning of what I have said in the replica, about the introduction of the euro although it is not the subject of this Report, but here, I feel the need to say that here, as I have said, in every major change in society as it has been, we hear here, the voices of right, extreme right options, or the populists who fear that there will be some cataclysm, the twilight of Croatia, the cataclysm that we will be hungry for bread, are very loud, are shown here, and the defenders of all Croatian, however, here, this cataclysmicism will never happen. Here, as such a major change was Croatia's entry into the EU, the populists announced that miracles would happen, that we would run out of cheese and cream, so here, this cataclysm did not come day and day, we still have cheese and cream. They announced cataclysm, if you remember one more topic, the life partnership of the same sex, according to their announcements, is whether, we should have feared for our children, whether, on the streets, people were supposed to walk, whether, children were to jump the same sex on the street, harass them, here for a wonderful miracle, and it didn't happen. So here's the theme of introducing the euro, re-announced cataclysm, is the national currency, which should be preserved at all costs, because here we will lose sovereignty or I don't know what. However, we are a country where citizens save in euro, where we buy cars in euro, euro apartments, we raise loans in euro, even euro wages are agreed. So here's the euro, I'd say already in Croatia, whether we want it or not, and we're just left with it to finish here, start the processes and legalize it as an official currency. What is true and what we said in the conversation yesterday and visiting the CNB is that the CNB really needs to work on making it much clearer for citizens in a simple language, so what are the advantages of introducing the euro, which will mean for their daily life. We see, today, that prices are rising, whether the introduction of the euro will increase further. We heard that, in other countries' experiences, their wages were growing more, much more and more wages and pensions, much more than prices, what about us? What will happen to interest on loans, how will Kunski be converted into euro loans, will there be any change that will negatively affect consumers? So that clear communication is very important. On the one hand, to appease the citizens, to really give them the advantages of introducing the euro, and thus, in this simple way and in this simple communication, to actually mate these populists in public. In general, I think that the CNB needs to step up its activities in the financial literacy of citizens. So it's not enough to tell people you signed such and such a loan contract or any other financial service, you should read better, you should know what you're signing, however true it is, each one is responsible for his own signature. However, institutions involved in the financial system should assume part of the responsibility for the financial literacy of citizens. Yesterday we heard, too, in the conversation that the CNB does a lot of things, works on education, thousands of children have already been through various educations that are organized, but here I really think that these elements of financial literacy should be included in the regular curricula in schools, so this is one task and topic actually for the Ministry of Education. As far as this half-year report for the end of 2020 is concerned, therefore, a professional report made, what is unfortunate for the public is that before the end of 2021 we are discussing the financial situation of the end of 2020 when there were completely different conditions. Energy prices fell, inflation was not, or at the time it was negative. So it was negative because of the decline in oil and energy prices, and today, whether it was, in '21. the situation is completely the other way around, so we are witnessing today, the rise in energy prices, the disturbances in supply chains, distributions, all together it affects the rise in prices and inflation, so not only in Croatia but in... The market that is then being poured over from the global market to Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The problem with Croatia is that the economy is not as resistant to disorders as the economies of Western countries, and because of that magical word or two words, structural reforms that we have been talking about for 20 years, it is impossible for us to introduce Europe, whether through a series of our recommendations it is constantly warning us that we should introduce and reform the judiciary, reform of public administration and local self-government, so Europe tells us that we have too many units of local self-government, we are not a state that can withstand 556 municipalities and cities and another reform, health reform that we have here, all the pains of the preconceived time, here we see now and during this global crisis. As I said in the previous report of the first half of 2020, I warned that we still count inflation on indices that were worth before Covid, and consumer habits, citizens' habits have changed completely. In times of crisis, do citizens have a habit of buying those basic things, of taking care of food, of such essential needs, of not buying any more, of clothing or of some other luxury, of calling them, of things, of buying more and more online, so that this crisis continues, we said, it was for the DZS task, but we really should consider changing the way inflation. As regards the business of credit institutions and reports, therefore the same is said here, they were heavily influenced by exceptional circumstances, pandemic conditions, and certainly stable business in such a situation, whether, under poor conditions, high liquidity and capitalisation of the banking system can be thanked. So it's interesting that part of it that talks about the business of banking institutions, so it says the same thing about how banks kept the profits made in 2019 despite Covid. Here, we talked here, here nowhere in the report in particular, is it, not mentioning those silent overruns, the question is how much the overruns contributed to that level because they most likely contributed to keeping the bank's income. You spoke to the governor about some solutions, and you mentioned the legal changes that are necessary, so here, I haven't been able to ask, but here's a question for you, when you estimate that the proposal for these legal changes will come to the Parliament? What, are we going to get a chance to vote on it soon? So this anomaly has been in the system since 2018, let's call it an anomaly, as the governor said about the pay phone and in the conversation here, yesterday in a visit to the CNB where we also discussed this subject, consumers reported it only in early 2020, so as if they weren't actually aware of it, when they reported it, the CNB reacted, however, I say again, it may seem strange to the public that the CNB hadn't noticed it before, perhaps I don't know, to revise some supervisory procedures, protocols, whether, in a way that such things at all in time, not only to the consumer's attention. And another little thing for the ending that I wanted to point out, that's this part about wages and the unit cost of work. In fact, one thing that kind of stings the eyes, that pays in the public sector at the end of December 2020, is whether they were more by 5.3% in the private sector by 2%. Somehow, whether or not this growth in public sector wages is always somehow stronger than the growth in private sector wages, so with all the problems we're talking about we have a huge public sector, that we have, here, units of local self-government that are more than we can handle, so here and even the growth of wages is stronger in the public sector than in the private sector. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61838	The next club of MPs will be that of the Homeland Movement speeches will be respected representative of Ruzica Vukovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61839	Dear Vice President, Governor with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Just a brief look at the exposure of my colleague, Puljak, who mentioned cataclysm in the production of milk and cheese and cream that did not happen. Indeed, it is cataclysm when you've put out over 65 thousand OPGs that have produced meat, milk, cream, as you mentioned, sir, and not for more than 10 years. Likewise, it is cataclysm when you have moved more than 200 thousand people from one region. Perhaps, fellow Members, you have not felt it on your skin because you have not been in Slavonia for a long time, but believe me, there are many hearths being extinguished exactly as it happens after great disasters and after cataclysm. Now let's get back to the information that's in front of us. So real GDP in the second half of 2020 decreased by 8.8% compared to the same period of the previous year as a result of the negative impact of the pandemic, Covid-19 disease on domestic economic activity, as well as the economic activity of our most important external and trade partners. We observe three months, economic activity was reduced by 10% in the 3rd quarter of 2020, and by 7.3% in the 4th quarter. The largest individual contribution to the movement of economic activity in the 2nd half of 2020 singles out a reduction in total exports and, in particular, the export of services. At the same time, there was also a decline in imports of goods and services, but less than the drop in total exports. Furthermore, there has been a strong decline in personal consumption that reflects the negative impact of the pandemic on opportunities, but also the tendency of our citizens to spend. The fall in personal consumption is actually a reflection of the low standard of citizens of the Republic of Croatia. At the end of December 2020, the number of employees was thus 0.6% lower than the same period in 2019. The employment conservation measures introduced in March 2020 continued to be implemented by the end of the year, but in a significantly smaller range, and many of our entrepreneurs were left to themselves. The administrative unemployment rate at the end of 2020 was 9% of the workforce, 10% in the 2nd quarter, which is 1.8% more than in the same period of the previous year, so despite the eviction of our citizens that continues. As the information provided to us shows, in the second half of 2020, the state finances continued to deteriorate. The consequences of the continued negative impact of the crisis on economic activity and therefore tax revenues, as well as the measures implemented by the Government necessary to mitigate the negative consequences of the crisis, and the most continued payment of support for the preservation of jobs. Therefore, in the second half of 2020, a negative balance of the state budget of 12.2 billion kuna was achieved, which together with 15.3 billion in the first half resulted in a total deficit at 2020 level of 27.5 billion kuna or in a minus 7.4% of GDP. This year-round budgetary achievement is significantly more unfavourable than the 2019 balance of the general government budget when an surplus of €1.2 billion and 0.35 GDP was achieved. The comparison of achievements with the deficit planned in the May 2020 State budget changes and additions saw a more unfavourable achievement of around 2.7 billion kuna and a more favourable achievement of around 1.9 billion kuna was recorded compared to the planned deficit of November 2020. This is all the data from the half-year financial report itself, or the level of achievement and implementation of monetary policy in the second half of 2020. But other than these indicators, I'd be happy to present you today with a few more indicators that you won't find in this report. Indicators that speak of the real life of our citizens and which I personally believe should be mentioned in such reports. You won't find a single word about the silent overrun in this information. The general word overrun is not mentioned in the 2018 report, nor in the 2019 report, and these reports have 480 pages in common. It is not, however, that banks were not monitored during that period. There was also a lot of work in the supervisory segment, but in 2019 and 2018 there was not one single reminder for banks. And when you take all this into account, it is clear that the weakly teamed CNB with only 690 employees from 2018 to 2020 has happily increased with the new 138 employees had no capacity to determine that every bank in Croatia had practically turned the regulatory product into irregular. So, the overruns were 95%, and only 5% were allowed. Which, of course, enabled them to charge multiple interest rates and an extra couple of 100 million kunas. And let's remind one of the CNB's tasks is also to oversee banks. The CNB argues that it initiates an amendment to the law in order to protect users from too much interest, but it remains unclear how people are even ours in a situation where banks charge them interest which is twice the maximum allowed by law. Interests on overruns range from 8.11 to shocking 17.4%. So, on average, they're about 11%. It is even weirder that the law passed by former SDP finance ministers, which has banned banks from charging citizens interest above the highest allowed rate currently at 8.11%. In a situation where the interest rate on savings is around 0.005%, and in August, the state was in debt at a interest rate of 0.01% charged interest on fresh minuses of 11, 15, 17.4%, but of 9% it looks brutal and pure interest rates. At the end of June, citizens were mostly 6.3 billion kuna in the quiet minus. If the money had been borrowed from the bank through the bank's vault records, it would have paid only 630,000 kuna on interest, and the citizens paid the banks over the year or would have paid 630 million kuna. Gentlemen, I beg you to consider this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61840	The next club of MPs will be that of the SDP, and a respected representative, Branko Grcic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61841	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Governor, he's gone right now, with his associates, colleagues and colleagues, we've heard a lot about this subject today and very high-quality debates that have really been focused on key things, and I would say a step forward in relation to this report. So, the current things that have plagued our citizens, the economy and all those who have been fighting the crisis for two years. Of course, the crisis is a global problem, the crisis is a Covid pandemic, so the hole that was created last year is something that triggered these processes that we are talking about today, and that is first of all this great inflationary pressure I say that has a global scale, but that has not gone beyond Croatia either. We are aware that this decline in GDP in the past year as well as a necessary reaction to lock-down on lockdown in the pandemic conditions was in fact quite the opposite of what we saw 10 years ago or more when we had that big financial crisis and economic crisis of the world, as well as the global scales when practically the whole policy was focused on saving, on restrictions and so on monetary restrictions, we now had a completely different approach, so the governments of almost all the countries of the world decided on major fiscal incentives, and all of this was supported directly by monetary authorities. So, once a well-expressed expansional monetary policy which is in the terms of saying that hole was created in the conditions of the crisis on the side of the offer, primarily because of objective restrictions, cutting off these supply chains, transport problems, supply, key raw materials, and also for quite direct reasons such as this tourist service sector that could not function under such conditions. So there was a imbalance between supply and demand. The demand was maintained thanks to I say these interventions at a relatively high level, and the offer had a problem. So, there are key disorders and I think it's the governor today in the introduction section and mentioned. Now you see what it is and how it's affected us. In the past year, like most countries in the world, we had a de facto drop in prices, in these circumstances I say crisis and energy prices and even prices of certain food products and others have either maintained the price the same or even those prices fell, especially when it comes to energy, simply the demand for these resources was less than usual. In 2021, someone mentioned here, so a complete shift in trends, inflation awakens, especially in the first half of this year, but we also see in these last months inflation in Croatia 3.1% in August, it seems to me that there will be something more in September. Mostly in the EU, approximately 3.4% was measured, in one Germany, 4% was inflation in September, which really says that we are all actually facing, this very serious problem that can in some ways disrupt stability and what the CNB is talking about in this price report as well. Of course, citizens can't stay unconcerned when it comes to such things, simply because we witness every day that some product, some service, collects, some continuous like oil derivatives, we witness that some of the famous boundaries have been breached in oil derivatives prices. We see that our people here are using this opportunity, those who can, of course, and those who are not far from the border go to BiH, there are derivatives still somewhere 2–2.5 kunas cheaper than in Croatia, and then, by the way, they buy tobacco, alcohol and all that is cheaper doing above all the lower excise duties in our neighborhood, so which at this point does not belong to the European area, the EU. These are the objective circumstances in which we currently live, and that is why citizens are concerned. How long will these trends develop in this direction, and what can we expect in the coming months? So there's still no clear indication that this trend is calming down, whether it's going to happen in the coming months, but at this point there's still no indication that these trends are relieving. What I want to point out here and what my colleagues and colleagues before me have also well pointed out, the biggest victim of this growth process is the low-income people, so everyone spends energy, everyone spends food products and these and those and the biggest share in the consumption structure have exactly the people with the lowest income and they are the biggest victims of this process, it's clear. The question is, of course, globally in Croatia will this inflation undo some positive effects that we had in previous years in terms of increasing, real wage increases, will this inflation now, will we now have this reverse trend and to what extent will this positive effect be annulled by inflation itself? What is also a question of pensioners, someone rightly warned about the situation of pensioners and the fact that pension corrections, so regular pension adjustments are here a year, probably less than the inflation rate or there will be less than an inflation rate, which actually reduces the purchasing power of our pensioners living and so on the edge, on the edge of poverty. Another issue that goes with inflation, which is the value of financial assets. Someone mentioned a little while ago that interest is currently on the line for savings. So we have a de facto zero interest, only somewhere over 36 months there are some 0.3-0.4% interest. Therefore, all those who save today in these circumstances lose and not just today, but ever since interest is so low on savings, and inflation we have. We had inflation before the covid crisis, it was at lower rates, and even then the citizens who were saving actually really lost in the value of their assets. Here, let's make inflation 3% this year with a zero interest on a certain deposit, let's take 100,000 kuna, to those 100,000 kunas at the end of the year will actually have less in terms of purchasing power than 100,000 kuna precisely because of this high inflation, and that's why it's important that we have inflation under control and that's why it's important, of course, the role of the CNB, but also the governments. So Minister Coric assured the Croatian public the other day that the price of gas and electricity for the public will remain unchanged by the end of the year. But the end of the year is there, it's in two months, so the next two months we have some guarantee that there won't be an increase in the price of these key energys, and what will be in January, it's a key issue for the government and what does the government intend to do then to mitigate this expected rise in energy prices? What about the announcement that 40% of the prices will rise for entrepreneurs? So you know that energy is an inevitable factor, so material or service or so an input that is installed in almost all products and services in one economy. Therefore, these changes in energy prices as one of the key components, so we will certainly have this delayed effect on the price increase of all products and services, as much as, depending on the share of energy in its creation, it is clear that, meaning some less, some more, but we will have that effect again. And, of course, that's where the question is now, time stands out for me, what can the monetary government do together with the government to really stabilise prices and mitigate these effects of inflationary pressure? Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61842	The next Club of Representatives will be that of the Green-Left bloc, and a respected representative, Sandra Bencic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61843	I thank the chairman. So we get this report only in the last quarter of the current year, and it concerns the second half of 2020, and we can justifiably ask the question of how informative and relevant it is for us as legislators, as someone who proposes public policies in terms of those proposals that we should now make as a Parliament, and in order to ease the impact on the citizens' standards that we have talked about here. So, we have to understand in the following year that this report is being done, but he really should come back at least in the first half of the year for a parliamentary debate, I know it's not just you. I know it's not just up to you, it's a message of course to the President of the Parliament. However, what I wanted to talk to you about today, and I asked in the replicas of the governor, I actually asked you a pretty simple question that you could answer with yes or no, and that question was it the CNB within its jurisdiction to control credit institutions and banks did check what credit institutions were doing? What measures are they taking to ensure that those citizens whose claims were sold to the claims agencies ensure the same standard of consumer protection as they had when they had a credit agreement with the bank or when they were customers of the bank? So, the answer that I've got is that the demand agencies are a problem, but that's a problem all over Europe and that we're waiting for the eu directive. This response to the waiting of the eu directive to regulate, to regulate me as regulators, we as a legislative body, you as the CNB that has jurisdiction on the issue of consumer protection and to improve the legislative framework, it also says on your pages, so you can make proposals and improve the legislative framework. And then when we get an answer waiting for the eu directive and for an area that is obviously a gray area where demand collection agencies are doing different, unacceptable forms of pressure to collect from citizens the debts they naturally bought for about 20% or 30% of the value and at the same time, we have a situation to export, export hundreds of millions of kunas because many of them are owned by foreign companies and, of course, they transfer profits to their parent companies. And then such an answer to wait for the eu directive shows me the nature of these authorities, but also of the CNB that actually capitulate before the problem we've had for a long time, it's not since yesterday and we're waiting for this problem to be solved somewhere else, that someone smarter than us can come up with a directive, and then we're going to spend it. I don't think there's any need to wait for her, I think we can regulate and that will be our proposal and that when consensus comes at European level, when the directive is adopted, we will bring our regulatory framework into line with the directive. Simple. I also have to say that I don't understand how we don't see that the problem is that it's a minimum of 36 billion kunas now probably more that have been purchased by the demand agency so far, that no one sees the problem that ordinary d.o.o., ordinary d.o.o. With 20 000 kuna of fixed capital, it operates on among other financial markets with hundreds of millions of kuna. And that no one sees or wonders how. out of 20,000 share capital buy claims for 10m euros, 20m euros. Where do these money come from? Did anyone in this country wonder if maybe some of those agencies, I don't say everything, are serving money laundering? So also no one wonders what happens when that same d.o.o. who's called the claimant's sales agency, that claim to a natural person, to a camera. Then who owns this debt, and in what position is our citizen we call a consumer, I don't like that word in which position he is? And it all started, remember, everything initially started from the ordinary credit that the citizen had with the bank, which is bound to protect consumers and apply all the standards that we're going to talk about today to the Consumer Protection Act, so it all came from that, and then the man found himself in front of the camera coming home to him. How? Legally, the bank sold claims to the claimant, this one sold to another agency, that agency sold the interest, and here we are. Therefore, as part of its function of supervision of credit institutions, the CNB had long needed to verify what measures the banks were carrying out to ensure this same standard of protection. What are those measures? Secondly, I think you should also check whether banks have established a mechanism and whether there is any mechanism in banks or outside, so within our legal system, which a citizen can use at a time when he is not equally protected by rights, what does he do? Okay, she can sue for damage, great, she'll be in court for 20 years to prove the damage she's caused him because she has less protected rights. Well, that's not an option. Therefore, the measures that we need to set in the legal system, but also make banks do so, so those that have originally sold the debt that must have measures that can currently stop such a practice that harms citizens because they do not have the same level of protection. I also wanted to say this, one of the things that happens to citizens when credit institutions sell their debts, which I saw in my eyes is that they're credited to the interest chiefs, that I can't get, that I can't get from some agencies to collect the debt structure as it was when their debt was sold. They get the amount of total debt that is then treated as the principal on which interest is then charged further. And now imagine when it happens two, three, four times in a chain of debt sales. Therefore, the CNB has made changes to its decision on the purchase of plasmas and ordered credit institutions to ensure, therefore, that the same, same rules apply to the acquirer. However, the acquirer may afterwards be a 5.6 legal person in line. Some of them, some of them aren't registered at all in the Republic of Croatia. Do they apply the laws of the Republic of Croatia to their conduct? They don't. And why don't they also apply and why does all these problems come about? So because we made it possible to sell the plasma, someone made it possible for them, and the agencies say there was no transfer of the contract, there was no transfer of the contract. And that's what they claim, that it's not a contract transfer. And if then we put citizens in a position not to even be able to call on their contractual rights, they cannot even be called on to have the right or not to get that right to see what the debt structure is at the moment of sale. So my question here today is whose responsibility is it? Whose responsibility is that citizens are put in that position that they cannot pay off debts because they are in a vicious circle of trade with their debt, the inability to establish their initial debt, and I will tell you this is especially in the case of RBA cooperatives that placed these loans to citizens, later selling them to their firms, and those that further to the collection agencies and pushed citizens into eternal debt slavery means you can't get away with it. You can't get away with this. So the question is, did the CNB do anything to check how these standards are regulated by banks? Who can citizens stand when they don't? And the most important thing, is it, at all, whether consumer credits are at all, so we're talking to consumers about consumer lending protected by the Consumer Protection Act, can such loans be traded in this way? Is it appropriate because if we can't regulate everyone in the sales chain that really respects the Consumer Protection Act and that it has the same standard of protection is the question of whether we should even allow such placements to be sold in the way they are sold now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61844	We are now moving to an individual debate and will speak rightly to the respected representative Marija Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61845	Dear colleagues and colleagues, as we move on to individual discussions, I will deepen these topics, three topics that I have talked about before and point to other things that I find worrying about, given that we are currently in a very dramatic situation, perhaps a turning point which will greatly reflect the standard of living standards of our citizens. I will repeat and underline it is extremely low if you mean exactly what the CNB has served us, and that is the fact that so many people are using too many silent overruns. So if people had money, they wouldn't be in debt. If people are in this way in debt it means more things. Everyone knows how much it costs him, a lot of them aren't even creditworthy, so that tells you all about them. And they were able to, say, get overruns on such high interest, or money in a blurry one. It's also an interesting bank-handling paradox. What we expect from the CNB is for it to be proactive and to be anticipating such events, and not that it is possible that the consumer rights that we consider to have happened safely in this case must later prove in painful court proceedings such as the Franak case, so that only then post-festum we have an epilogue of the whole situation which has not yet been resolved. Is it necessary to go to court in order to change or not repeat in future practices such as these silent overruns? What is particularly worrying about when we talk about inflation is the fact that producer prices have increased by 9.3%. So when we talk about inflation, we're talking about growth around 3% here, something more than 3% in August, over 3% of all financial experts turn on their lights. And when we look at how much prices the producers have grown, then we come up with the real problem, or the question of waiting for the moment when this growth, which is already recorded, will be spilling to the end consumers, and that is all of us. We have the assurances of Minister Coric that it will not happen that we will be kept in that balloon that we will not grow the price of gas, on the other hand we have announcements of dramatic purchases, on the third hand we know that all these energies have greatly affected the prices of production. It is impossible to add to that what is currently happening to the construction sector that it will not spill over to the end consumers, to all of us. Who's gonna stop it? To what extent can this be stopped? And more important question with what consequences? The consequences of the government's seemingly maintaining economy throughout this crisis that we have now witnessed is precisely this current inflation. If the government again intervenes in the market in a way that tries to regulate these prices, stop pressure on citizens who already feel all entrepreneurs in production so it will also reflect somewhere, it should not be an economic genius to ask the question where. So now we're feeling the consequences of the Covid crisis, it's not all great because the government has pumped up the money. That's why we have inflation now, we have disturbances on the global market, and who knows how far that inflation will go. Also, it won't be great when we get a sudden flow of money from the EU. The question of how this inflow will again reflect inflation, and to make the matter more tragic and the very speech on inflation will reflect inflation. So we are really in an independent situation and we need clearer answers about what will happen to inflation in the future. In the debate on behalf of the club, I have already pointed out that the governor himself was changing his projections in a few months. Of course, it is not easy to predict, but it should also be made clear to citizens that you are not sure how much inflation that will be and then offer real scenarios for all possible expected developments in the inflation situation. As far as the euro is concerned, I also consider it a major failure. If we follow the media, if we follow government communication, everyone's only talking about us being in the Eurozone tomorrow. No one has sent a key message that is purely factual, and that is that there is a great possibility that we will not meet the criteria. Then what are we talking about? The key to underlining myself by returning to the beginning of my speech is the issue of responsibility. You can't say that reacting within 3 years of the start of such unfair practice Prompt response. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61846	We have a replica of the respected MP, Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61847	Dear colleagues Marijak, Marija Selak Rasudic. Dear Vice President of HS, Mr. Rainer, Your Honor. Comrade Maria, what exactly does this mean for the Croatian people? Let's be plastic, let's draw people. Once prices are up, the Croatian people need to know, they will not go down, there will be no cheaping, and we have that there has never been more expensive fuel, oil has never been more expensive, milk, bread, so it is no luxury, before I told the governor, these are basic needs. So we're not talking about pools and bikes and I don't know what. Basic needs. So we have ministers who say that we live in a fantastic country, that there are flowers in our businesses, and now I'm interested in where we live? So what's the reality, what's going on? We've got some people who are obviously talking fairy tales, or maybe they're the only ones who are really good at it. My colleague Selak, the question is, what's going on?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61848	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61849	No one is fully certain of what is happening because either what official statistics record or the way that statistics are officially interpreted, they assure us that there is no dramatic inflation. At the same time, what all Croatian citizens feel in their own skin, and thus their basic living needs, I said, from the price of oil to the price of vegetables that went almost 10%, milk now close to 4%, I'm talking about August, and things are going up, they feel on their skin. We go to the store, I see the end account, even those who live well, so they don't care about the price, they're a little shocked to see the end account of everything they've bought. So right now we have a situation that the reality of Croatian citizens does not correspond to what they hear about this reality from responsible people. There's obviously a communication failure, not to go into malignancies of intrepretation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61850	Dear Representative Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61851	Dear counterpart Selak Rasdic, analysts predict that rising prices for building growth will be at least another year and a half. We're talking about steel, metal, wood and plastic. The loudest you were about to rebuild the city of Zagreb and we see that everything is on the rise, and our government has proposed with the new funding model 80-20 because the City of Zagreb will not finance it because there is no money, and in these 80% means that construction reconstruction the government will only finance bricks, reinforced concrete and roof, and all other costs will be financed by citizens. How do you predict, in fact, that these growing costs, which will have to finance, will affect the population and their lives, and did not mention that the population in the last month has therefore increased the loans they have raised from business banks? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61852	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61853	It is interesting that we have no projections of how just the rise in prices in the building affects Croatia specifically because we are in an additionally invisible situation compared to the rest of Europe because of the specificity of our current circumstances and the fact that we have had 2 earthquakes, and unfortunately we see that Croatia is still shaking. So we don't have enough people who are able to work in the building, the price of material goes to the sky, and the public procurement could not even be implemented because the programme listed ridiculous prices that no one on the market could satisfy in order to make it worth the while. At the same time, we are convinced that Zagreb has no money for reconstruction, and thank God, the whole of Croatia has. How is that possible? So we're looking, let's be specific. The projections of how these disturbances in the construction sector, as far as inflation is concerned, will reflect Croatia's circumstances.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61854	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61855	Thank you very much, Vice President, dear colleague, Governor. So maybe I'll reverse the whole story a little bit, today there's a lot of talk about it and you'll certainly be talking about until the end of the debate and inflation and all that, of course, leads to the gathering, but I think that the kind of non-sension still in Croatia, we at the moment, Croatian citizens in the banks have about 330 billion kuna, it's almost one whole of the GDP of the Republic, banks don't pay or pay very small interest on the hand-to-hand deposits. As you can see, on the one hand, we have money that we might be able to place under some other conditions, run some processes, and on the other hand, that money stands and practically people lose it every year on that money.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61856	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61857	Just what you said, Col. Ivanovic, shows how deep a problem the Croatian state is because it is so much mistrust from Croatian citizens, and for that, I must say that your government is able to invest in terms of being able to achieve it legally, and pay the investor that our citizens prefer to keep the money they will sleep in banks than they will dare to let him on the market. This in itself tells you everything about entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship opportunities in Croatia. And we've heard that some people are looking forward to having people who don't even have confidence, and now it's justifiable to the bank, to get out of their stockings of money to change them into euro. So, let other people's supplies aside and make sure that you create a market where everyone will dare and can't wait to fertilize their money.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61858	Thank you. The next individual debate will be the respected representatives of Anka Mrak Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61859	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear Governor, colleagues and colleagues. I'll use my five-minute debate on the state of construction. Thus, when construction is first felt by the crisis and there is first a situation, or less work, the same way out of the crisis can be seen. We are everything at this point, the covid has turned everything upside down, all the things that were worth before they weren't worth it now. And also in Zagreb, and in the Sisak-Moslavina County and Zagreb, and Krapina-Zagorska and the City of Zagreb, there was an earthquake, and yesterday we saw our south country shaking and now what is the fact is the fact of the rise in the price of apartments. I feel like it happens to you who with cars, when you buy a car he has one value, as soon as he gets out of the store his value is slightly smaller, and after a year you can buy a car for a significant lower value. At this point the old apartments are on the market, I'm talking about the Zagreb market if I know it relatively well, so the old existing apartments you can get, that price disturbance wasn't, but the new apartments somehow when someone tells you that 5,000 euros is a square meter of apartment in Zagreb a year ago it was unimaginable or it was some kind of top-notch location, top-notch apartments. Today, those who deal at the moment when they announce they're going to build have, say, one building going now from about a hundred apartments, 2,000 interested. The governor's question as to what's going on here and what's the problem is he detected three, three things why this great demand for apartments is. The first thing was cheap loans, or why such a huge increase in housing squares. The other thing was the subsidies by APN and the third thing was that people decided because the banks had no interest in their money, or they were negative, so they would invest in real estate. This investment in real estate will continue and we must be aware that this will continue. And on the world market, the following happened to us, which is that the price of steel went to the sky, that the price of iron is such that everyone who deals with you today, contracts and says the prices are worth the next ten days. So, the armature, you can't concrete without the iron I haven't seen it yet, maybe I'll see in the future. So we have some situations that are objective and some situations that are subjective, and what we know is this, the recovery behind the earthquake didn't start, it didn't start. What was done in the area of Sisak-Moslavina County, that is, Banovina is chimneys, roofs, so it did not start a serious restoration, and the workforce went somewhere else. And what everyone who deals with construction and who warns that prices will not stop, that prices will continue to rise. And now it's a matter of the role of the state, and what can the state do? When we talk about this part of APN, so the APN didn't invent it, it's this government's policy, the government's policy was that it caused a partial disturbance in the price of apartments at the time when people were, and it's logical that one of the models was to help people buy real estate and that was the policy of this government that was before and continued now. And then the first caused a disturbance in the price of apartments, and then the second and third were some kind of objective circumstances and circumstances that this government couldn't influence. On these circumstances, some circumstances may be affected, but some may not. What we absolutely need to know, which is that in the future and what they're saying for a while there will be more real estate prices, new real estate. This will certainly have an impact on a number of other things, and we need to take care of it, which is one of the tasks and the CNB, or better said tasks and governments, to see what we can do here. The government intervened something related to the prices where it is in the public procurement system, but where it is not in the public procurement system not one entrepreneur says I stopped by the works because there is no construction material and no workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61860	Thank you, too. Mrs. Vucilovic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61861	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, Mrak Taritash, you have well noticed that the construction sector is usually the first to enter a crisis, and the first to come out of a crisis, it's such a conjuncture. But last year, we had a shock that came from outside that didn't come from the economy from economic processes, but was conditioned by a health crisis that then spread to the economy. And Governor Vujčić also noticed very nicely that there is a serious threat because what we now have with the price of construction materials, and we all know that the production of construction materials depends greatly on the price of energy. I repeat, 40% of the energy went to September only compared to August. The question is, will this real-estate balloon and those prices in the future cause any new crisis ahead of us? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61862	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61863	Thank you very much. So there are some things that we can somehow prevent or predict and do, and there are some things that you can't, so this subject with the crown and it's made a disturbance on the world market. I am interested, and I am reading very intensively what will therefore be a Chinese, an enterprise engaged in entrepreneurship is threatening to collapse. And I think I've read some number of apartments that have constructions, which aren't finished in the China area, is unimaginable with us, it counts hundreds of thousands of apartments. But that company invested in the UK, or invested in London, and it didn't start working there, the question is whether it was investing in Europe as well. We know that Chinese construction companies are starting to work in Europe, what's going to cause all this to happen. It's a big and key question that's hard for us to know the answer right now, and we need to keep an eye on it. [[Intruder: Time, thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61864	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mr. Troscott's time to present him and then we'll go to the stand on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61865	Dear Vice President HS, distinguished colleagues and fellow citizens who follow us through the screen. As for the further debate on the EUR, I would like some more facts as I believe that the Croatian public has not received the right information. First of all, I see one hypocrisy on the CNB's pages, we have nothing against you personally, but when you look at the document The strategy of the introduction of EUR, so it follows for example the taking of credit by the population by 2016. and this suggests as one of the important arguments that our population is in debt in the EUR, but do you know what the fact is? The fact that it was in '16 that day. when the strategic document remained on the CNB pages, there was a change in the market if the market no longer wanted to take credit in view of the whole franc crisis and our population began to borrow in kunas and it grew from day to day. So today we're talking about 56 versus 44%, so all the loans that are given to the population are therefore taken in kunas and kunas there prevailing. And I don't hear that argument because when you look at dynamics, and you see it was mentioned today that, yes, so all credits are falling, it's not true, loans to the population are growing, so not only are they growing but they're growing in kunas as well. And what the CNB actually failed to do, which is one of the basic objectives, which is the currency figate or trust in the currency, has made nothing less or more than the market. Regarding the fact that European countries don't want to come out of the euro area for example, here's a recent survey of the 4th month 2021, we're talking about only 4 months, London School of Economics is one of the best economic schools not only in Europe but also in the world where the professors from Bonn published a study where they said that rigour as was applied to Greece, so it resists itself, the euro area itself, so the title is about that work, and in fact what is it about? It is done when research against the Italians so asked the question when there would have been a strict economic impact in terms of the packages they had applied to Italy as applied to Greece, 15% of respondents would automatically exit the euro area. I don't know where the governor's optimism comes from, given the increase in the interest rates that are really coming from, and we're warning them today, and why am I telling you this? For the reason that one Italy owes one and a half full GDP. Everything Italy produces in a year means that one and a half GDP is due to Italy. They are looking at the front whether Italy will succeed in paying off its debts in view of the increase in the interest rates that are coming. Furthermore, the introduction of the EUR must therefore take some other criteria. Mandelov, Mandel was a professor who won the Nobel Prize at the level because of the topic of optimal currency market that he said is one of the important criteria for introducing an optimal common currency of mobility. Now what's going on? So, we have already sent 310,000 people to Germany, when it is estimated that the average cost per our, cost or investment, forgive us, according to our, according to our citizen or citizen between EUR 50 and EUR 100,000, that means that according to Germany, we have delivered an entire budget and apart from constantly hearing about that 2019. It's like that year is a sacred cow, so we don't think about what's gonna happen in 2025. And what it's going to be in 2030. Given that every new recession, so each such drop in all economic indicators and all those conditions for life, and that they produce economy and economy, will thus produce the effect that even more people will be evicting, so until when? Nobody's talking about it, and nobody's talking about handing over that monetary sovereignty, we can discuss it, but Mr. Vujcic's hand in Frankfurt means that in five years. The only economic policy in the City of Zagreb is the importance of firing workers, or before cutting wages and firing workers, which is called internal devaluation. That means nobody talks about those costs that will meet us all in 2025, 2030, etc. and this was all understood in times by countries like the Czech Republic, countries like Hungary and countries like Poland that work intensively to increase productivity, reduce production costs and bring production economies closer and generally towards the euro area.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61866	Thank you, thank you very much. You have the replica of Mrs. Maria Selak Rasudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61867	We have other countries like Sweden that refused the EUR in 2003 and imagine there the left was against the EUR. Why am I pointing this out? Because in order to prevent the debate on the EUR, and the debate as a democratic tool is always necessary and welcome, it is trying to trick some thesis that the issue of the euro is the issue of the right. The issue of the EUR is the issue of the existence of Croatian citizens. So, it's about all of us, we don't talk about it openly at all, we don't have round tables, we don't have experts in the assembly. And whenever anyone dares to peek out of a hole and ask a question at all what will happen then they push them back into that hole as a rebel right-handed man. Well, we had here by the HDZ complaint that we might even be in favour of a referendum. Thank God that and always, because it's a democratic tool that we can to see the will of Croatian citizens. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] How do you comment?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61868	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61869	Here is a respected colleague, Selak Rasudić, who would agree with you that the issue of introducing the EUR has nothing to do with political spectrum, but that this has to do with the consequences that could and will certainly lead to this, so the introduction of the EUR itself into Croatia, and we do not hear about it. And let's say that the Croatian public does not receive information that more and more citizens are therefore in debt in the Croatian Kuna, so it takes credit in the kuna and it is not shown in the reports but the strategic document of the introduction of EUR in Croatia has stopped from 2016, 2015 end, you know why, because there are still loans in the Croatian Kuna. What happened here was a good question about deposits. I didn't hear the prime minister say the increase in interest rates is actually going to be very good at savings, but what's the problem is that ours is saving just because we don't trust the money market to invest that money in real estate, not in the capital market like the example in Europe. and that as soon as the investment in real estate comes to inflation. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61870	Thank you very much. Mr. Miletić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61871	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Radin. My colleague Troskot let me explain to the Croatian public plastically. So on the one hand, we have ministers who say that we live in a fantastic country, that there are flowers in the company, I've already said it, that all, it's all nice, it's all just joy, people are going in the streets, they're playing guitars, they're singing, they're thrilled with the salaries with everything, and then we have with our neighbors one of Germany's strongest economic forces where inflation is the biggest in almost 30 years, in the last 28 years we've got the Great Britain that broke, are we really an island of happiness, Croatia is the island of happiness, and whatever happens, we're not going to get anything done. Is that how a colleague of Troscott or maybe we should watch it, here's what's going on?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61872	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61873	About your question, so it's not a good situation. So as far as inflation itself is concerned, the question is whether we will meet the nominal criteria at all. One of the criteria is that 3 smallest inflations in Europe had Malta, Greece and Portugal in the 8th month, their average must increase by 1.5% under the Maastricht Agreement and that is the maximum inflation Croatia should have. We've had almost 1% more. So in that criterion we're not already meeting, not to talk about the debt we have now, the question of whether we're going to cut it by 1/20 as much as it takes. As far as the other countries are concerned, so everyone's fighting, I don't see the optimism that we keep talking about Lagarde, she's a representative of the European Central Bank, so she said that we did immediately move away from the abyss, but that the light on the tunnel to be seen, you can't see. And that salary you mentioned, so it's $150 a year's salary, that's what a person spends on 3 going to the store. So much for increasing wages in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61874	And finally Mrs. Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61875	My dear colleague, I didn't hear you correctly, you said, you mentioned something about a poll in which the citizens with 15% would have come out of the Eurozone, I don't know what you were talking about, but this, so just answer me if 15% to get out of the Eurozone means that 85% to stay. And this comment so I don't know if you think that the reason why our people are leaving and young people are especially going to Europe is because we are in the EU or we are going to get closer to the EUR now is whether these are the reasons for their departure or because we don't have these structural reforms, the economy is bad for us, so some other problems are actually why people are leaving. So it wouldn't have saved us even if we hadn't joined the EU, people would still be leaving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61876	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61877	Great, I'd like to start with another question of yours. So what Mandel's model on the basis of which he won the Nobel Prize implies that there will be mobility in both directions. So, if ours were to move to Germany, then in an optimal market, it would mean that the Germans would also be coming to live with us. Now is reality really unrelated to what the EU is, therefore, in the optimal currency market, how likely is one German really going to live in Croatia, very difficult precisely because of these structural reforms that we are not implementing, and I have given an example of a reputation risk where it is a shame that we arrest 3 county judges in Osijek, that we do not know the epilogue, fire a slap on the entire judicial system, lift up the whole country on our feet, and therefore we have no epilogue on that situation. And believe me, investors are looking at it a lot more than currency risk. And on the other hand, what you've set me up so it's a little bit of a change, a little squeeze like they squeezed Greece automatically at that point 15% is for, for, excuse me, to get out of the Eurozone. for the slightest change in the script. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61878	Thank you. We continue immediately with the mid-term status information, the degree of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy in the second half of 2020. And now it is time to continue with individual discussions and it is up to Mrs. Vesna Vuceminović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61879	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, Your Honor, to the governor with associates, colleagues and colleagues. As I have said and announced, in an individual debate, it will look back on the problem that has really escalated, which refers to overshut overruns. In this report, it says that banks did business positively last year, and that should be commended, we should be satisfied about that. So it's not in anyone's interest for the banks to fall into financial trouble because after we've rescheduled the banks not once but several times, so we've sold them to strangers, the last thing we need would be some kind of a wave of problems and failed banks. But what we need are banks that will finance our economy, which will be a development factor, we need banks that will be a factor in economic growth, not institutions that will be focused exclusively and only on making as much profit as possible at any cost and in any way possible. Who did the banks finance? So, according to this report, the needs of state units have been financed, their loans have increased by 18.1% and have financed households. Deposits have grown, so liquidity in banks is basically satisfactory, and I would even dare say, at an enviable level. Independently, banks did not listen to the needs of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises last year. As I have already said, the only funds available to these economies were through HAMAG-BICRO, but they also responded to their demands with a delay of several months and these were mainly requirements for crafts that you do not need for a few months but right away. And it's ladies and gentlemen another dimension of entrepreneurship in Croatia today. But let's go back to these silent overruns that aren't exactly news in Croatia. 8 years ago. The government then passed a Consumer Credit Act which reduced the current account minus to one salary or pension. In that context, the legislator states that banks, especially after 2005, led a highly expansion business policy and approved overruns of up to 3 months of income. Does that ring a bell? This did not take into account potential risks for debtors, but also for banks themselves. This 2013 law. Slavko Linic's initiative at the time was to break the usual practice because, in addition, the bank was able to reduce overruns without notice and invite the client to make up for the pay cut, which has created many problems. Sounds familiar, doesn't it? In the time of low interest rates and excessive liquidity in the bank system, they came up with so-called short overruns and once again citizens began to approve minus 2-3 months of income, and even more expensive to charge, in some cases interest rates ranged as much as 17%. Allowed excesses shall be treated as credit agreements and shall be subject to an effective interest rate limit and other consumer protection elements. So-called the short-term overruns are treated as a business relationship regulated by the current account contract and are subject to the Payment Law, no interest limits, and there is no credit assessment, nor must banks pay out in 12 wars in the event of the suspension of that surplus. So the article on the subject presented the information that citizens are in charge of around 6 billion kuna through the overruns. If the average interest rate was e.g. 10%, which means banks make about 600 million kuna a year on that. The amount would be very difficult to earn in other types of placements. So in Croatia nothing new, banks have been using it for years. The fundamental question is why the CNB deals, for example. Crypto currencies he's not in charge of, and he's not dealing with over-the-counter overruns? As I've already said, they've been reduced by mandatory reserves, they've been paid by 0.25% interest, and banks have placed that on citizens' interest of as much as 17% in some cases. And I'm gonna stop there because I'm running out of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61880	Thank you very much. You've passed the time, I haven't, I haven't noticed. You've got a replica of Mrs. Devereaux. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61881	Thank you. Dear colleagues Vucilović, therefore, when we look at the share of food in the incomes of our citizens, so in Croatia, we talk about as much as 27%. When we talk about developed EU countries, it is actually about a percentage that goes up to 8%, not anymore. Looking at Croatian food production we do not have supplies, production is increasingly questionable every day, what do you think of the coming inflation that a group of citizens will hit the most? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61882	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61883	Well, thank you very much for asking, colleague Vukovac, you're absolutely right. The share that goes to our citizens for food products for food products, but also for energy is extremely high. In 2018, almost 18% of our citizens could not settle their energy bills. In addition to this price increase, but we also have to say that the introduction of the EUR will also lead to a rise in prices that will most reflect on these products which are already very high in the consumer basket. So this increase that's constantly being talked about by some 0.2%, that's the average, and that's a whole series of services that our citizens can't use right now because they have low incomes. Therefore, nothing goes on hand to people who work for low wages, average salaries or minimum wages, and pensioners not to talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61884	You don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Katarina Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61885	Here's a good day again. I'm going to try to sharpen this discussion a little bit with the thesis that inflation is a class question. So here we hear from many MPs and MPs from really different apolitical options of similar thesis means that inflation will spill over and shift to the back of those weakest, meaning on the back of the working majority, as I would say, means on the back of those who work and live from their work, but it is assumed within some moral policy as if they are ruling simply do not want to help those who are in a position to pressure them eating. Why is inflation a class question? Why, I'm going to ask the opposite question, why don't you just index the wages and why the wages don't follow this price rise, right? Why did the CNB decide, so why is the CNB policy, why has it decided that the CNB's priority is to maintain a stable course? In fact, these are all related things that point to the fact that inflation is a class issue among other things and that this inflation will be spilled or transferred to the back of workers of these 3.1% annual inflations, which is the highest rate since 2013. It's really a class question, isn't it? First of all, there is no resistance or response to such political and economic situations and because of the degraded state of employment which has occurred primarily in the legislative regulations and reforms of the Labour Act, which is why all, as well as for 10 years of work to be weakened, contributes to the state in which capitalists have resolved their hands and can always increase prices, and workers must bear the cost of the crisis, as well as the cost of inflation on their backs. I'm going to give you an example, meaning the inflation of the '80s that we all remember very well, which is whatever it was and leave even a context in which it was created and the consequences it caused, used to the coma, it used to benefit the debtors. So why did such inflation benefit the debtors, you all remember maybe your parents who would buy an apartment, so they paid it off by the end of the month because inflation ate that loan war? So because there was no currency clause, there was no currency clause that we need to say this outright, so it's not some moral question on which it's not clear who's against who, the currency clause protects the creditors that the debtors are paying back the value of the debt given the changes in the value of the currency. So hyperinflation is generally bad for the economy because it paralyzes production, but in that period that we all remember, it corresponded to the debtors because many of the most basic things took credit and returned much less, there was no currency clause that protects the creditors today, and it was one system that was actually very different from eating to that same problem. The Stabilisation Programme from 1993 to 1996 stopped inflation in Croatia, the programme was supposed to last 3 years, but we can say that this programme continues to date. The focus of the central bank is on the stability of the exchange rate and the price regardless of what the consequences of it are, we have an accommodated rate that damages exports, favours imports and protects the credentials. It's 1996 and '97. Foreign financial capital has entered Croatia and has taken over the financial sector, we now have foreign banks that are well protected because the central bank is doing everything in their interest and protects their capital. It justifies protecting the savings, but actually works in favor of the richest. So let's say what they look like, what the concentration of savings in Croatian banks looks like. More than 90% of people have savings of up to 10,000 kuna, and the rest, meaning that small remnant of the State's deposit protection agency protects the savings of up to 100,000 euros, and that 1% has amounts in billions. We can speak freely and have received a report from the CNB on what we thank them for, and that is all related colleagues and colleagues and inflation, because currency clauses and anti-inflation fighting protects the value of that handful of rich people. I don't have time to move on to a later period, but I think you've got some insight into how inflation is a class question.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61886	Thank you. Mr. Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61887	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, to the governor with his associates. I think that the debate on this semi-annual CNB report is one good opportunity to remind ourselves of how we went through 2020, one of the most challenging years since the Homeland War, which they have marked above all the pandemics of the Coronavirus, two earthquakes in Zagreb and Banovina, parliamentary elections and, of course, all of this has meant a lot of questionnaires in every life of our citizens, and this has also marked the work of the monetary government and the way they have gone over the resolution of certain problems that have arisen. The report clearly states that real GDP in the second half was reduced by 8.8% compared to 2019, that employment in the second part also dropped by 0.6%, the basic inflation dropped from 1.1% to 0.1% in December, the average annual consumer price inflation slowed from 0.8% in 2019 to 0.1% in 2020, mainly due to the cost of oil derivatives at that time. In the second half of 2020, we recorded a total deficit of €27.5 billion or 7.4% of GDP in public finances. When we talk about the stability of the course, we should mention what it says in the report that the CNB then strongly intervened with almost EUR 2.7 billion and, of course, what we are always looking at are the international reserves of the CNB, which amounted to a large EUR 18 billion of EUR 944 million. When compared to this year, it is clear that one relatively difficult path has passed and that what has been marked by political struggles, as well as the fate of citizens, depended on what the government is doing and how it affects the lives of our citizens. A number of negative forecasts through this 2020... Especially here in the assembly of a number of political options and was expected then in the second half of 2020 and the government's shift and on the basis of some bad results. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, the citizens understood the government and the prime minister, and the HDZ, together with coalition partners, received great support that resulted in the rapid formation of a stable majority and this kind of continuity of policies that we continued from the time before, today says what it means, although I say, the events of 2020 have had a major impact on overall developments. I believe that, however, all of us as citizens today are much more optimistic than we may have been in March or April of last year, as the data suggests, the government's strong measures and timely towards 700 thousand employers, 700 thousand employees, 120 thousand employers, in terms of simple payments, means salaries and material costs, have preserved the most important part of the economy from major earthquakes, primarily the service sector and the construction sector, which in this year are in somewhat better conditions and a lot of liberal measures on the part of the public health sector, especially in the 2nd and 3rd quarter, strengthened their economic activities, especially the good tourist season, so what we projected at the end of 2020, today is quite small and different. We only projected to grow about 4.8% when we look at the total year, so in April it changed to 5.9, we now have the latest projections of a total of 8.5, possible GDP growth, and above all for a great tourist season that is still going on. Employment, one of the greatest past, not only in 2019, means one that is always some sort of orientation but also in many years before that, unemployment that falls, comparison with the pre-crisis period 2019 shows that the number of fiscalized accounts has been reduced by 8%, while their amount has increased by 3%, so simply in all fields there are good figures and no matter what some will say we're boasting, I think we're showing what's real, and that's every number that's exact and can be checked. Everyone talked about inflation today, we heard that we are experiencing it as a transition and that on average the EU is 2.3% and that it is likely to be so with certain policies and remain in the future. What was I gonna say through this? I think what we projected today in 2020 is better, efforts to enter the Eurozone need to be achieved in early 2023, and we expect a large role of the CNB, and as for the downside on the citizens' account and the silent minuses, we expect from both the government and the CNB measures and changes that will allow citizens to take the position so far at no greater cost to themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61888	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Mariana Petyr, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61889	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, fellow Boric, for talking about inflation. In previous discussions, it could be assumed that inflation exists only in Croatia and that it has not affected any other country in the world. The discussions also went in the direction that Covid pandemic disease exists only in Croatia, that nowhere else is happening and that all the answers given are bad. You've made some arguments here, you've been talking about preserving jobs, helping employees, helping economics, touching tourism and good indicators, but you've said tourism and it's still going on, which may be beyond expectations and what's used to being publicized. Well, since you're coming from Rab Island, can you tell us something more concrete about these indicators?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61890	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61891	Here, just the report means that the basic inflation fell from 1.1 in June, when we talk about this report, to 0.1 in December and that the average annual consumer price inflation slowed from 0.8 to 0.1, so what was the result, let's say, the energy price. We remember last year and the price of derivatives, especially oil that were somewhere at 8.8.5 kuna, and then it wasn't questionable, if that's what we're going to do now, given the government's role and what it can do, then we didn't question it, and we thought it was the result of certain negative events caused by the pandemic. What clearly marks us, it is this tourist season and it is still going on and it is a pleasure. So we're going to get close to some maybe overall and more than 80% of the results achieved in 2019 when we talk about nights. And on the financial point, it's going to be, in my opinion, and much better because, I say, what we had in 2020 this year [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It was much better when we talk about tourism. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61892	- Mrs. Crescent. Jurician-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61893	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, colleague Boric. Here I would also say that you have made very good sense of some data such as 700 thousand employees who used the government's measure to preserve jobs and certainly there were no help and help 120 thousand businessmen, so that a far greater number of unemployed or fewer employees on the market in the second half of 2020. You mentioned inflation, so since we refer to this second half of 2020, I would point out that inflation remained negative in that period. Furthermore, as you talked about banks and free money, banks have reached the highest levels in that period so far, so most of the interest rates have been kept at the lowest levels so far, similar to those before the pandemic. When we're talking about the tourist season, then I'd say it's a really significant step. that we have the largest number of fiscalized accounts in July and August. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61894	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61895	Thank you very much, colleague. Well, I looked back on what we went through in 2020, it was really specific, it was very difficult, we had what we didn't expect, 2 earthquakes, 100 billion damages only on the objects of our citizens, the pandemic, which cost us over 35 billion kuna, all of which needed to be reconciled in some way. This government could do it because it got citizens' trust, if we remember exactly the time this report applies to, so 5.7., the citizens recognized what they wanted. They want stability, they want a normal development where there will be no leaps, in which their interests will be protected and a particular economy will continue its path, and this year it shows. It shows what the continuity of a good and responsible authority means and what results it can... So from 2020, next year, in 2022, we expect that, too. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think we're clearly showing, and that's where we get into the EU that's very important and that shows Benefit what we've accomplished with that. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61896	Mr. Mandaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61897	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Representative Boric. In your presentation, you pointed out the state intervention last year and how we actually dealt with this crisis in 2020, pulling the parallel with that crisis in 2008/2009. Mr. when everything was tight, saving, restrictive and monetary and fiscal policy, then it's clear, we paid the price of poor economic growth, it actually took us 7.8 years to get back to pre-crisis numbers, unemployment grew, there were fewer employees, but it didn't, it seemed to me to be a problem with inflation. Unlike then, explosive policies are now applied, both in Croatia and in Croatia, of course, expected, economic growth is accelerated, we have this V-shaped return, employment is really at high levels, but of course we pay the price slightly expressed in inflational... So please stand up, do you think that what happened was better after that crisis after 2008, '09. or what's actually going on in the past [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But these too. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61898	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61899	Thank you very much, dear colleague. I don't think we should talk about it that way, whether this is better or what, I think everyone knows what's better. Every citizen clearly sees it, and surely he can testify to it from perhaps his own point of view. The numbers are what they say, we don't need us as politicians and members of individual political options because what we draw, I mean, we make it happen. So what we projected when we were bringing the budget last year, when we spoke here in HS, which should be in 2021, all the results show that we'll be better than that. And now, if the government is not responsible for that, which is trying to suggest on the side of the opposition, then the question is why would it be guilty of other situations that may seem worse today. So if it's good, the government doesn't deserve it, if it's bad, it's the government's fault. I'm not a fan of it, we need to look real, and I remember the time when the GDP drop was interpreted as growth and we had to admire it and we were all impressed. with that, but Croatian citizens said it was over. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61900	Mr. Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61901	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, fellow Boric, for mentioning at the outset how it was last year, given this pandemic of the Coronavirus has actually been the most challenging since the Homeland War. I think that in this context, and there were few words about it today, we should actually point out, if we look at the business of credit institutions in 2020 and the role of the CNB in that, so there are 23 credit institutions in Croatia, of which 20 banks, 3 savings banks, and maybe we should mention that, in fact, in that year, the CNB has actually adjusted its supervisory measures a little bit and that is the situation, so even if we look at the adequateness of capital and other things, I think it would be good to mention it in the discussions. Another thing I would like to emphasise, and also little was actually a word about a positive tone, as regards the introduction of the euro, so we entered the Course Mechanism 2, some plan is 1.1.2023, so I would ask you for a clear opinion, which are the advantages of hearing very much negative news about the introduction of the euro, which are the advantages of introducing Euro 2023? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61902	Answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61903	Thank you very much, dear fellow Habiban. Here, what I can from my experience here in the assembly speak, I think we've spent a lot of time and the past five years,... has often been the subject and shifts of governors and the wish of the CNB to undergo a state audit, that in some ways it does not have its own independence and wishes for some to convert all euro loans into kuna loans and many other events, from political options which the bank simply does not experience as Croatian, but it is always an exposition of some of the other banks that we talk about and everything they do, for them it was not good. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're here to keep a certain level of stability that we can. The CNB is there to maintain the stability of the monetary system and clearly demonstrates the results that we will still meet all the criteria that are important to us, and the benefits will be seen the moment we enter, I believe what the governor said about these benefits, and I say, we have also had disputes about joining the EU, so we see today after the past time That those who do not say it, in fact, say it wrong. [[Intruder: Time.]] That's why they're here to tell the truth and to the citizens [[Intruder: Thank you.]] They're informing in due time. [[You don't have any more.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61904	You don't have any more replicas. Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Marin Miletic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61905	Dear Vice President of HS Mr Furio Radin, the esteemed Mr. Bukarica, the esteemed governor with associates, respected colleagues, colleagues. I have to say, you know how I think? So, I don't have any problem with it, I've already talked to the Croatian public once, and that the Croatian public understands me, that I wouldn't be embarrassed by someone, that if I didn't know, the left hand, that the SDP is where you are right now and that we're saying we're bringing some measures to the Croatian people is better, it's gonna be better, I'm signing right now, I'm giving a mandate because I think the point is that, to make people better, to make the citizens better. I mean, at least that's how I see the sense of politics. To do what you can where you are, where you are, to make people better. That people live better, that people aren't so burdened with finance and here, somehow I dream of Croatia, I know we're a young democracy, I know what we went through in the Homeland War, as a kid, is that, which is '94. High school just enrolled and I know what difficulties we've had and as a state we've been going through, and I know how many other countries have been going through this whole democracy process while it's being cleaned up, until it matures, until somehow it's all on its own, but here it is. The Israelites have been passing through the desert for 40 years, so I guess we'll be passing our Croatian desert a little bit, and then there'll be something more quality and better. And I really don't have any problem commending everything that's been done, everything that's good, which is good for the Croatian people, and I don't want it to be misunderstood, Governor, so I said before, so I guess how demanding responsibility is and the story that you're doing, I feel it's, I don't know it in detail. It's not my domain. I've worked for 16 years. But I feel, I feel how important it is because we're all connected. This exhibit of mine is more focused on more sensitizing all of us here once again, and then you because you hold on to skirts and scissors because you are ruling, you have legitimacy, and then you also have the governor to think about the Croatian people and always make the Croatian people a first for us. From talking to people whose profession it is, they say that what is happening in China, in Great Britain, and that Germany, America, there's a real possibility that there's a real possibility of spilling over. Then history teaches us, we have 2008 was not far away where Minister Schuker spoke dead cold, so the dead cold was saying nothing in Croatia, we're stable, the economy can't do anything with us and then again the crisis that hit us hard. We got away with it. It's standing on its feet, but it's kind of obvious. Then we have, so what we're doing, we're some brassinger, we listen, we listen, we talk, we have the President of the European Bank who says we're out of the way, he says, "But there's no monitoring of the light at the end of the tunnel." So, it sounds to me that we have to be very careful, that we have to be very awake and think about what we should do to make the Croatian people feel good, that we don't push people even harder because it's not easy for our people to live, regardless of what Minister Aladrovic has to say, it's saying that everything is fantastic, that before I said in replicas that it turns out like what's from the movie whether "flower flowers are in my company", is whether or not it's just that flowers are flowering. There may be flowers in some companies, but in the Croatian people, among the citizens who are average and such are the most not that flowers are flowering. And that's why I think we're in danger again of the poorer citizens of this middle class of ours, which is very important to us that they will feel the most about the consequences of all those who threaten us, which is that I'm afraid that we can't stand the rise in prices. And I'm going back on the food, it's kind of a foundation. A man who has food, when you have a place to sleep, then you're alone, and we have 30% of our income goes to food, and in the European Union, in developed countries 7%. So these are the facts. It's not any Grandmother Wang and some stories. And that's why I'm interested in what we're doing? So, what's the strategy? What can we do, and you see that we're being threatened by these majors of the world by the accumulation of gas, by the energys? As Russia sneezes, Germany shakes here. What are we gonna do, little people? But then we should stick together as long as we can and care for Croatian citizens. We know that according to data every 4 citizens in the Republic of Croatia are on the verge of poverty. Many are in trouble, we have talked about it to the governor all day about those famous quiet overruns, so do all you can and here to make it easier for Croatian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61906	You, too. You have two replicas. The first replica was sought by Mr. Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61907	You spoke of your reasons and motives for which you are involved in politics. I would like to believe that these same motives lead all people in the Croatian government, to lead people from the Croatian National Bank, so that they are driven exclusively by motives of the interest of the Croatian people, I think that would then be different decisions made. So I think it's important that this debate is served, we look into the eyes of the people of the Croatian National Bank and I as a Croatian representative to think a little bit about whether the moves they're making are right, whether the moves they've taken are right, whether they've used all the instruments and all the weapons they have somewhere in the garage or in their hands. And here's the clue to your debate I have nothing to add or specifically ask you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61908	And did you ask... Okay. [[You don't understand.]] [[- I didn't.]] Let's move on then. Mr. Zvonimir Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61909	Dear Mr. Miletić, you've seen very well. On the world stage, therefore, alone from the data when this entire Covid crisis was created, 750 billion dollars was created, or the debt of the European Union, to come out of this crisis. What few people say is that again it is not good for the optimism that some politicians here in Croatia praise is that the increase in electricity, but also the European Union energy plant, will cost 400 billion euros. Now we have a debt of 750 billion and we still have to pay extra for this inflation cost, so at European Union level, which will be reflected in Croatia in a way that will cost us that energy inflation somewhere around 2.2 billion euros, which is about 5% of our GDP. Here you are asking how this will affect the prices of our citizens? So here's to comment a little bit on the withdrawal of funds that will be reduced by that price hike.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61910	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61911	I'd like to answer to both you and my colleagues. Thank you very much. [[Then I'll give you a little more time.]] Thank you very much. [[Intruder Radin: Please.]] So I think the most important thing is that I personally will not judge anyone or enter into other people's shoes. [[Intruder Radin: Please.]] I don't think I can think of it, but I think it's important that we all know that everything is fleeting and that we're all passing through and that maybe those of us who are representatives here might not be in the next term, maybe someone's going to be another two, three I'm not getting into right now. God forbid whoever you are for 100 years, I don't have a problem with that either. Let it be as the people will, and dear God. But I think it's unusually important that we try to do our job fairly and try to burn it to the end. So behind us we leave a trail and about us Croatian people will one day speak and write these things were those who did their work honestly and perhaps they were wrong out of ignorance. Anyone can make a mistake I really think sometimes and in good faith. Well, nobody knows everything. You can make a mistake. But if someone deliberately makes a mistake, if someone deliberately harms the Croatian people, if someone deliberately takes away someone else's wealth, so imagine if there's anything worse than going through the streets of our country and pointing their finger at you and saying, "Look at him, he only cared about himself -- there's nothing worse."
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61912	Thank you. We've given you 50 seconds as you've seen and everything's fine. And now we're moving on. Mr. Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61913	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Governor, colleagues and colleagues. Here I am also going to spend some time on a very important topic which is the most visible in figures where Croatia is when it comes to monetary policy a valuable report which practically every citizen in my life should read and see what this affects the situation when it comes to the business of the Croatian National Bank and here to read a lot of data. But I will return to the exhibit that Mrs. Branka Juričev Martinchev had, who said to me what I think is most important, which is how the government is at this point the government of the Croatian Democratic Community and coalition partners is dealing with situations that impose the global market. I think that's the basic message the government has come up with. And if we look at 2019, 2020, and 21, we will see that the government has recognized things that happen on the global market and is trying to protect what is most important and that is the Croatian economy as the biggest generator and gross domestic product and everything we want to talk about in the first place. We can't affect some global currents. Let's say September 6th last year, the barrel of crude oil was $36. It's 72 dollars right now. The same barrel costs $72 which is a 100% raise. Here were the speeches about how the accumulated price of cereals or the purchase of cereals was excellent, I wish the price of cereals was 2 kuna per kilo. Now it's currently kuna and 20 limes and all our producers are satisfied because they've finally covered themselves and there's something left for them. But you know what's unfair? It's unfair that she picked up the beans for 1 kuna on the same day, and 5 grams of flour goes into the bucket. That is Croatia's problem, it is the problem of this globalisation of this cruel capitalism that shows its worst side. Is it possible that a kilo of grain can cost a kuna and a 20, and it costs four kunas? It's nonsens. It's simply impossible to endure such things. So I'm going back to what I think is most important. The Government of the Republic of Croatia, with its vigilance in cooperation with the Croatian National Bank, must feel these global flows that are happening and can be affected and protected again by what is most important and that is the economy. This is seen in this report by the number of employees, and by the decline of the number of unemployed. So this report clearly shows where we are in space. One of the things that I might also be able to solve, and perhaps a certain mechanism could be found here for the governor. It is illogical to have 330 billion kunas of Croatian citizens, that money stands in banks for 0 kuna, or it does not stand for 0 kuna. Banks make money on it because banks pay us loans for 3.5.4% of interest. So they make 4% of my money, and they tell me it's 0.23% if I don't want to. If we take that gross domestic product somewhere is about 370 billion kuna, then we can see the thing. On the other hand, in the same report, it says that 23 financial institutions have never made more money than 20 banks. 462 billion capital is held by these 20 banks, much larger than the gross domestic product of the Republic of Croatia. I am in favour of seeing if citizens can through their savings that banks don't pay for if we can find some instruments in terms of taxpayers, investment funds, anything that citizens at least don't lose what inflation brings. Because it's illogical that inflation is 3.1% and good, but it's all collected by 20, 30 and 50%. One piece of information, that's what I'm gonna end up with. I was at the consummation yesterday. The price of a kilo of apples 15 kn and 60 limes of gold is shared. Do you know how many buyers get, or how many producers get? Two kunas and 20 limes. How much is that? 700% because unfair commercial practices are essentially destroying this society.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61914	Thank you. You have several replicas. The first line was requested by Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61915	Thank you very much. When we heard that the signatures for this debate were being collected, we were a little surprised, too, because the course of the debate shows that this debate essentially gives us a chance to say what happened last year, to compare ourselves, to see where we are today because all figures are in favour of this government so that we did not understand this political tactics of our opposition colleagues. But it would probably come on the agenda sooner or later. What was I gonna say? What is inconsistencies is that people are making policies, that they are doing something and implementing it both in the bank and in the government, and in the ministries, and that this policy is stable as it should be for the benefit of the citizens is creating results for us. Some will say nothing is wrong. We heard it was inflation, that it was this, that it was that. But we must compare today with what they were and those fears we had. ... small tenants from last year's bank response to their requests to reprogram loans was perfect, excellent. [[You don't understand.]] No one's asked this year. There was no need. We had a good season. So we will and we can work, but to understand that something depends on people, too, depends on people.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61916	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61917	Thank you very much. So that's exactly how I started this individual debate that the measure of things is exactly what you were talking about identifying the signs of time, reacting in time to these signs of time to protect your own population and all the categories of that population, and that's exactly what's happening here. What I'm going to do here is I'm going to connect to Mr. Miletic and I liked that last part of him, let's not scare our own people that's not good. Don't do that. Here it was said that 400,000 people would lose their jobs, that the economy would collapse that it would never recover again, that we would become a "banana republic" state. That's not what happened. And why didn't that happen? Because we have a responsible policy. Someone can agree or disagree with that and that's the general point of view. But the figures are always immeasurable and unquestionable, and in the end they always judge everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61918	Mr. Kolarek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61919	Thank you very much, Your Honor. A colleague of Ivanovic, from your presentation as well as from all of us here, is clearly visible and I have the feeling that we all agree on many things together. But today I haven't heard three important things about how much food we're throwing away, it's a question, and we're saying it's collected, it's costing. You said yourself a kilo of apple 15 kuna. How much food are we throwing? That's number one. Second, as the head of the local self-government unit, I noticed that our tax revenues from real estate sales are growing terribly. People don't save in a bank anymore, they buy real estate, so people fight things. And a third thing. Talking to the economy, I come really from an environment that is economically developed. The economy is for the euro [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] There's only that much. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61920	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61921	Great. Here I am and sketched a little before this individual debate, so Croatia throws 400,000 tons of food a year. Four hundred thousand tons. A billion and 500 million tons of food a year is being thrown into the world. I think it all says what kind of society we even live in and who makes us do something like that in the first place. Of course capitalism that went wild to those last of its borders. This is also happening on the real estate market. Here's Mrs. Dark Taritash said something about it, that someone said that the price of a square apartment a year or two ago would be 5,000 euros, someone would say it's impossible. This could eventually happen in Dubrovnik or somewhere else. But now we see that people have decided to reroute money differently. That's not good. It simply pumps something that is unsustainable and will sooner or later, and many will fall and fail and I just think it's absolutely not good. I'm for the euro. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] If that's what the Croatian employers said, I think my word against you shouldn't be... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61922	Thank you very much. Mrs. Vukemilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61923	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Ivanovic, you've gone global. You end up locally on apples and you kind of point your finger at traders, these, on those, capitalism as an order that's probably unfair, like this, like that. I'd probably agree with my colleague, Peovic, with you. But why didn't you go back a little bit with the price of oil when it was even negative at one point? I didn't notice that at that time a liter of gasoline or diesel was 4 kuna, 5 kuna was not. It's 11 kuna today. Bring in the floating excise duties. How much of the state's share is in the price of fuel, and how much is the share of oil? Bring in the floating excise duties. Be a little righteous. Don't just charge the state budget with taxes. You mean the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61924	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61925	Dear Mrs. Vucilovic, I think this government is very much thinking and thinking about its citizens. It can't affect everything globally, of course. That's right, we had 2020 somewhere in February, March, and 19th where the price of oil was practically just being sought where there were warehouses to store it, cost nothing. But that's exactly what I'm talking about. You mention apples. Apples are very important in that whole story. My point of discussion is that these unfair commercial practices are something that not only Croatia, they will not endure them absolutely, absolutely no one. These things need to be changed and here's Mrs. Petyr sitting here and there's a lot to talk about and talk about. But it's cartels. These are gangs of mobs that you can't expose and that you will because they're all united and that's the problem. Therefore, the price of apples is also very important in the structure of life in the territory of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61926	Mrs. Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61927	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, colleague Ivanovic, as you said today, we heard this series of criticisms about the fall in GDP,... State finances. [[You don't understand.]] However, it should be reminded. The revenues fell because we had reduced economic activity due to the pandemic, so we had fewer tax revenues. Furthermore, the 4th package of tax reforms has additional citizens and entrepreneurs disbursed 2.4 billion. When it comes to spending, they grew. Just to keep jobs, we have 8 billion more than we did last year. Furthermore, we also had certain amounts to be allocated to repairing material damage from the earthquake. We had extra health appointments. We should have bought additional medical equipment to protect our citizens as best as possible in this pandemic. We've had an increase in financial resources for parenting status and carer persons with disabilities. The remuneration of employees has also increased, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61928	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61929	Thank you very much. That's right. Responsible State, the responsible Government is taking measures in accordance with the moment and time in which we are located. We met in a global pandemic. That's how we reacted. Today there are politicians in Croatia who say that Croatia has received a lot from the National Recovery and Resistance Plan because we are bad, because we are none. Well, that's what we should brag about. We've got almost 50 billion money, which we'll be able to spend on projects that we could never do, or it would take us a long time to do from the national budget. But no, we're the worst in the world, that's why we got 6 commas, I wish we were even worse, so we got 10 billion if we got 12 billion. Therefore, the laws that are passed in the Croatian Parliament we discussed yesterday that we would start with people of older age to requalify them, to introduce them into the system of education. Those are the measures. I see here every week some measure that brings good to me, brings good to those who care about it, which are Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61930	Mrs. Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61931	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Col. Ivanovic, an increase in the price of energy in the world market, of course, also affected the increase in grain prices of almost 27%, an increase in livestock prices of 31% and all of this has an impact of course on the increase in food prices for end-users. We have also recently discussed the report on commodity supplies where we were actually asking to start to think strategically, understanding that there is now no instrument in the law to intervene in market disturbances in this sense that domestic products are purchased for goods stocks. But since the law goes into public consultation, I think it is necessary to think about it as well as in general about cooperation between resolutions, including the CNB with state bodies, in order to respond in such situations in a timely manner to protect citizens and consumers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61932	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61933	Thank you very much. Yes, we had such a model where we bought a part of the surplus that we had, whether it was war cultures or not, and I think we should think about it for two reasons. The first is because we are solving the problem of these unfair commercial practices that are happening on the global horizon, and on the other hand we are preparing for a situation that may happen that we have seen in this covid crisis, that countries that have not been well prepared have not gone well. Therefore, I think stock supplies are an important factor in the functioning of each regulated state, both our own and our own. There were also frauds, some people who wanted to frame something that wasn't prescribed by law, but that's to be solved in other ways. You don't have to kill a cow for one steak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61934	Thank you. Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61935	Dear colleague Ivanovic, I have already told you you are one of my favorite performers. But now I have to tell you, you've set a series of thesis completely wrong. First of all, the oil market doesn't work the way I buy it today, I spend tomorrow. You know how it works now that I don't explain how the oil market works, that what we bought who knows when we spend today, and what we buy today, we're gonna spend who knows when. It's already kind of a colleague of Vucilović's one part about this oil, but I have to draw attention to one more thing, and that's a calculation of the price of the muffler you mentioned. You said flour I don't know wheat cost a kuna and 20 limes, and that muffin picked up 22 kuna. Right? Now that's what that price is. Don't forget that there goes sugar, salt, energy and pay workers. You boast that workers' salaries have increased, and then we have to count on them to rise because of price increases. We have a thousand problems that you simply forgot when you calculated those prices.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61936	Thank you very much. Answer. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61937	Dear colleague Pavić, I have not forgotten anything. I'm still standing and I'm staying on it. If that muffin had been collected, you know, until the grain was even finished, but there was speculation that the price of grain could have been kuna and twenty, last year it was 80 limes. So let it go, I know exactly what I'm talking about. I once failed in catering, so I know exactly what it means to include energy, what it means to include workers. Don't worry about anything! So I'm not saying this in my mind, I'm speaking out of practice. So they just heard they're gonna pick something up, and then why didn't they pick up that muffin by 3.1%? Why did she pick up 72%? That's what you can explain to me if the energy's up 20%, and I'm agreeing to have it pick up by 20%, but it can't pick up 200 percent. He can't pick up 200 percent! I can't have apples for two and a half kuna, and I can't sell 15 and a half kuna in retail. That's 700 percent! That's what I'm talking about and I know exactly what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61938	Mr. Grmoya.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61939	I'm not sure you know exactly what you're talking about. So it's quite clear that prices and in meaning shopping centers, in stores are influenced by a lot of factors, and prices of everything from energy, and then further increases. Also, a colleague, Boric, used to talk here when we were out of opposition to some people who spread panic and fear. That's what you were talking about. No, but it's a fact, so here's the truth, and you yourself said how much the price of apples has increased, how many other foods our citizens buy. The problems are here and we are not as your colleague from the Boric Club says we missed with this initiative from MOST. So Croatian citizens are interested in these issues, these are important things, these are existential issues. It may not be a problem for colleagues of Boric to single out so much for apples or for buns, but it certainly is for Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61940	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61941	I don't want to be Mr. Boric's lawyer, but I support what he said. A lot of people around here were panicking. We've heard of people who lie dead, who no one has to bury. I mean, there were a lot of ugly words in this Croatian Parliament, and a lot of them frightened the Croatian people. I have absolutely nothing against this initiative. You were looking for her. The Croatian Parliament held its plenary session. Here sits the governor of the National Bank, so I think the system works well. So now that we think about each other at the end of the day is one position, the other are the opposition and I don't blame this fellow Boric for anything because he's speaking precisely from a position that needs to protect the institution of the government of the Republic of Croatia for which we are currently holding the greatest responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61942	And finally Mrs. Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61943	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, therefore, the assembly room is where we should speak. The assembly is where we should point out and when we see things happen because when things happen, it's too late. Then, “the late Marko is coming to a field, ” and then it is too late. So at this point, we have to point out this problem that we have with the price. I did the analysis, and today I talked about it with the price of diesel. So the price of diesel in the Republic of Croatia is currently 11.03 kuna. The comparison works in Austria is 9.59 kuna. The higher price is today than two and a half years ago when the price of the barrel was $120, while the Croatian State has its excise duties and the other one participates with 6 kuna. So let's see what can be done because it's a domino effect and you and I know it. When the price of gasoline rises, then all other prices rise inevitably. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61944	Time. Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61945	Thank you. I agree, it's a topic of discussion. Even at some gas stations, it's even higher than 11.03. She's about 11.50, 11,60. Last year at this time, your elevator price was at 8 kuna gas stations and 40 limes. So three kunas is more expensive. 50 liters tank that's 150 kuna. And I don't mind. Here, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will likely try to find ways to help if we take diesel as the most citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Surely one of the challenges we have faced is, but I am confident and sure that we will find solutions that will benefit the citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61946	Thank you. You're free to go. You don't have any more replicas. Mrs. Karolina Vidovic Kristo is on her way now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61947	Ladies and gentlemen, this report is useful for the Croatian Parliament as the Croatian National Bank is useful for its citizens. Unfortunately, very little. I have to say right now that I don't want to underestimate any person or discredit them at personal level. However, the CNBs play a key role in Croatia such as the role of central banks in other countries, and it is to worry about the legal functioning of banks, i.e. credit institutions and what is essential through its action to protect the interests of its citizens. But the CNB doesn't protect the interests of its citizens, it protects the interests of the banks, and here I mean not the valuable employees of the banks, but the administrations. Banks use CNB behaviour and systematically abuse Croatian citizens in which they openly violate Croatian laws and European norms. The result of this situation is that we have 1/4 million citizens who have been completed and a million citizens living on the edge of existence and poverty in a country that has 4 million inhabitants, while at the same time these same banks in Croatia have the highest profits on invested capital. When we compare these data with other European Union countries, because when we have laws that suit banks, for example. in Germany, you can pay any bill in cash, while under the exception of the prevention of money laundering, you are allowed to pay up to 75 thousand kuna, as the legislator will say, has provided traffic to banks because the entire payment traffic has been provided by law. But the most dramatic thing for Croatian citizens is to tolerate the open illegal action of the banks that the CNB allows. Because if the European Data Protection Regulation prohibits the provision of personal data by a contracting party to third parties, how is it possible that, back in the 3 years since that Regulation is in force in the European Union, banks are selling claims to agencies without the consent of customers, in which case they are eligible for interest-bearing agencies and providing them with profits of 500 and 600%? That information to the CNB has nothing to do with it. Mr. Vujčić's laws are not gum gums that stretch and adapt to suit someone and cut off the other. The very fact that after the epic affair, Agrokor remained the governor is, of course, totally scandalous, but you should be aware that European law says: "From the moment you come to realize that it seems illegal in the area for which you are legally competent and you do nothing to prevent and sanction it from that moment on, you are a participant in this illegality." The fact that Croatian consumers pay twice as much interest as the Germans, Slovenians or Hungarians are solely your fault because your actions did not establish sound grounds for competition in the area of banking business. You have established an incredible injustice that can be described as follows. You made it possible for the banks to pay enormously to ordinary people against European norms, but in return, these banks must, of course, repay you and the ruling structure, because how else do you explain that banks have financed the regime tycoons for hundreds of millions of euros in order to simply forgive those claims from Mesic's Najsica cement to Sanader's Nina Pavić in the pre-departmental settlement process? So, when it comes to similar things, then it can be forgiven, but when the Cvetkovic family with five children doesn't pay two credit wars then you can throw them out of their home or the Starački family in the same way and that woman who is an oncological patient. Indeed, except that this is an injustice, except that this is an evil to Croatian citizens, I am really asking myself how can you possibly sleep peacefully when you know that by your intentional inaction or malicious bargaining you are making so many evils to honest and honest people in Croatia? But the time to settle the bill comes sooner or later. Of course I'm against this report of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61948	Now it's Mrs. Mariana Petyr's turn. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61949	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Governor, MPs and MPs. In the half-year information on the financial situation, the level of achievement, price stability and implementation of monetary policy in the second half of 2020, it is noted that during the observed period, the pandemic of the disease covid-19 had a negative impact on domestic economic activity. Croatia's real GDP in the second half of 2020 was reduced by 8.8% compared to the same period in 2019, mostly due to a reduction in exports of services and personal consumption. At the same time, in June 2020, employment growth began by reflecting economic activity recovery as a result of the reduction of restrictive measures and the continuation of government measures to preserve jobs that so far amount to 18 billion kuna, covering every other job in the Republic of Croatia. In addition to growing employment, wages grew in the second half of 2020 and the agreement of EU projects rose to almost 100%. At present, it should focus on implementing the National Resilience and Recovery Plan, and of 6.3 billion euros, the first 13% arrived as an advance. It is a very clear framework on how to withdraw, for which these funds will be used, and there are important reform and investment projects. From tourism to September, the value of fiscalised accounts was 24% higher than in September 2019. That's a good result, but not all cards should be put on tourism. Personally, I believe that the great potential lies in agriculture and food industry and that there is a need to make greater efforts in this segment to stabilise food prices, increase purchase of domestic products, reduce imports, increase processing but also help Croatian farmers cope with all the challenges they face as easily as possible. Due to the record tourist season, demand for domestic food has increased, but on the other hand, we have to say that climate change is taking a toll and has reduced birth and yields in Croatia. If we add to this the situation on the global scene which has a significant impact on the market itself, and here I mean first of all the increase in energy prices that have caused the price of cereals by 27% and the increase in the price of livestock food by 31%, of course, that all of these have been reflected in the increase in food prices on shelves. According to some of the data I have that increase is 3.4% higher than the same observed period last year. Since food is a significant and high part of the consumer basket, citizens are rightly concerned about possible food price purchases. Inflation happening around the world now has its first lift of this nature at this height in the last ten years and it is not as all macro economists say was given the world's unexpected occurrence. However, food prices affect the life of an average Croat, more significant than any other movement given the share in the consumer basket, which is around 27%. It should also be said that he is now lower than he was five years ago as a result of salary growth over the past few years for more than 1120 kuna, representing almost 20%. Over the past year, Croatian farmers have been assisted and played an active role there. In part, these interventions were from the state budget, partly from the European budget. Half of these interventions were related to the livestock sector. It has just been released on e-consultation with a new package of measures for livestock production worth 163.5 million kuna, and according to the latest data from the State Statistics Institute continued the growth of exports of Croatian agricultural food products at a rate faster than the growth of imports. What I am interested in is what instruments the Croatian National Bank has at its disposal to stabilise the prices of agricultural products in order to protect the interests of our citizens and consumers. I personally think it is important to think strategically about the team more than inflation was unexpected. I would therefore call for closer cooperation between the Croatian National Bank and the competent state authorities so that they can give the right answer in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61950	Thank you. You have replicas. Mr. Ivanovic's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61951	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Commissioner Petyr. Croatia is not self-sufficient about energy. Today there's a lot of talk here about energy, but you mentioned a segment that I'm sure is light at the end of the tunnel or at the beginning of the tunnel quite anyway, which is the National Recovery and Resistance Plan which a lot of money just wants to invest in green policies, wants to invest in digitization, geothermal sources as potential sources of energy in the Republic of Croatia and we really do have them. These are essentially strategies that could make Croatia in the long term on the energy market quite different than we might be right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61952	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61953	Thank you very much, colleague Ivanovic. I agree with you that the National Resistance and Recovery Programme puts the emphasis on both green and digital and what is innovative and seeking new knowledge. It is a high amount of funding, but it is highly dependent on the implementation of reforms, and it is absolutely certain that we should be there at the height of the task. Croatia has great potential precisely for the production and use of renewable energy sources, and I would now take advantage of what you have actually given me to call on what we have also discussed on the Committee on Agriculture, which is that through future competitions that will be called just for instruments that will provide support to small family economies that they can produce renewable energy sources and use them on their economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61954	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61955	I am miraculously surprised, therefore here by the statements of my colleague Petir who told me how much I realized that climate change is responsible for the decline of agricultural production in Croatia. So I don't know where you live and on what basis you've concluded that climate change may be responsible for the decline in agricultural production in Asia, Africa or elsewhere. Certainly not in Croatia. Governments are responsible, the relationship to agriculture is responsible, is also responsible for counterpart Ivanovic, who claims that this mob cartel, as he called it, is a commercial and unfair commercial practice that so raises prices, and actually pays farmers nothing of these products. He sells them at so many higher prices, and he himself admits as part of the ruling majority that the mafia is stronger than the state, according to his statements here in the Croatian Parliament, which is scandalous. So I'm disgusted by your statements, but also by your colleagues' statements.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61956	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61957	Thank you very much. Of course, article 238 of my colleague, Grumoja, is injured, speaking for me, which I don't think is appropriate. I have my own mind, which is not inserted, but mine, and I didn't talk about it. I was saying that just now the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament is investing a lot and legislation to combat unfair commercial practices. Those are my words.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61958	A colleague of Ivanovic's, you know it was a replica, so you'll get a warning about it. We're not going to start with any injuries to the Rules of Procedure right now. Okay. Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61959	So the violation of Article 238. I'm ready to get a warning. So, I would like to thank my colleague Ivanovic for making great efforts as a member of the Committee on Agriculture to walk to the store and to see that the price of the apple is as much as 15 and something. It's a great effort. Croatian citizens benefit greatly from this effort. Thank you for this contribution, the fight against unfair commercial practices.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61960	Of course it was a replica, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I beg you, let's not do this. Let's not do this! There's a possibility of a replica. See how many replicas there are now at the presentation of colleague Petyr. You can speak on behalf of the club, you can speak finally in the name of the club until you like and whatever you want, but don't abuse the Rules of Procedure nicely please. The next response to the replica is the respected representative Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61961	Thank you very much. While I was talking, you were typing on your cell phone the whole time and you weren't listening to what I was saying. I was talking about the challenges farmers face and need to help them with, and one of the challenges is certainly climate change that they take toll. If you were maybe a little more in the Neretva Valley, then you'd probably know what the Mandarin producers are meeting. But it's not my place to say where you're going to walk and what you're going to do. It would be good to inform yourself about the topics you're talking about. You don't really know anything about agriculture as far as I can tell, because it's as if you live in a parallel world and don't know that fights and colds have been happening that have had a huge impact on the reduction of yields. It is one of the challenges as well as the challenge of the market problem and the problem of imports. I talked about all of this and offered some solutions and called for the closer cooperation of all the competent authorities to find the right answer to that question.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61962	Mr. Grumoy's representative has re-arranged the breach of the Rules of Procedure. What did he get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61963	Rules of Procedure 238. I heard you very well. The fact that I type on my cell phone just shows that I can perform more functions at the same time. So I have a part and a woman's brain So I can do that, and as far as I'm concerned, I know a good situation in the Neretva Valley. [[Petir: That's what you said!]] So she's concerned with other problems. And certainly climate change is not the main cause of less production, agricultural production in the Republic of Croatia, so that you pay particular attention to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61964	Thank you very much. Not entering your brain's character, you've broken the Rules of Procedure, so you'll get a second warning. You know what's wrong with the third warning. Please refrain! Dear Representative Boric has.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61965	Thank you very much. Comrade Petyr, I agree with your debate, but also with the overall debate today that has essentially marked if I look at the media presentation of the debate well, that we are socially insensitive. And then let's say you have a fellow bushman who's got the same salary as me says 15 kuna is funny to me and I don't like it. He's expensive for 15 kunas with the same salary. When you have a family that has 40 together, they accuse the governor of being insensitive, of costing taxpayers the same as one family at the Most. And that's how it's discussed. We are running away from the importance of this, which is that the figures are in favor of both the CNB and the Government and this prime minister whom they do not tolerate and are trying to teach those of you who are exclusively engaged in agriculture what agriculture is and what is the problem of agriculture. He's an expert in Mandarins, the one who knows everything about everything. He teaches the state's attorney how decisions should be made. A man simply for everyone, and in fact they have their statistics and their statistics are not at all interested.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61966	I'm sure you want to hurt the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, then. What's hurt?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61967	You have injured the Rules of Procedure, therefore, because Boric did not ask any questions, so he replicated Mrs. Petir, but rather dealt with the Most. I know MOST is hurting him, and he's in charge as the last thing to do for the destruction of our operation here in the assembly, but it seems to me that according to these latest guests, he's been replaced by his colleague, Habian, because he's misrepresenting his function as a corridor. They're sending Habian to me more than he is to Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61968	Okay. On the basis of Article 240(2), I would like to give you a reminder by taking away the words until the end of the debate on this subject. You insist on harming the Rules of Procedure, fellow Boric?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61969	May I?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61970	And you can do whatever you want, but you can bear the consequences.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61971	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Reiner, was injured in Article 238 because my colleague, Grumoja, constantly degrades me in particular in this assembly and mentions me when I am gone and when I am gone, and then finds that I am some destructive parliamentary representative who needs to deal with him. You don't have to deal with them, you're destructive by yourself. It's just that there's nothing constructive you can do, and that's why you were kicked out of the government because you didn't know how to do it, you were just trying to crash. The destroyers have nothing to do in politics the way you do, so don't mention me because I don't deal with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61972	Comrade Boric, you know that this is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. You're getting a warning about that. I warned my colleague Bolt about it. Let's be serious, the subject is serious. We can fight like that till after midnight, but I think it's pointless. Dear Representative Petyr, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61973	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In any case, it is important that, regardless of which side of the assembly, we sit equally socially sensitive, that we observe and react to the injustice when it is necessary, that we be as prepared here as possible and read what the subject is and use the exact data, not to manipulate them or to use the data for populist purposes or even to fear the people that were here today. The fact is that 18 billion kuna has been invested in preserving jobs, the fact is that wages have grown, the fact is that, despite all the bad circumstances, tourism has given good indicators, which ultimately reflects the fiscalisation of the account that was 24% higher for September of this year than it was in September 2019 and should be said as of course should be said and if something is for repair.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61974	Thank you. We have a replica of the esteemed representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61975	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here's my colleague Petir and my colleague, Boric, I'm also surprised that my colleague Grmoja has recently become a very loud anti-Vaxer and has now become actually someone who denies climate change. You mentioned the right ligature. Then we can talk about the double belt, see that fellow Boric expression. I would return to your exposure specifically, is known your work, pawnage and activity on agriculture. You also noted that the actual share of tourism revenues in GDP actually accounts for almost 20% year-on-year and that the Croatian economy is quite dependent on tourism itself. So I'm interested, and I think that we agree that agriculture and tourism can be complementary and can actually complement one another, so here I am asking you briefly and your opinion on that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61976	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61977	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Habian, I certainly think that agriculture and tourism cannot, but must be complementary and that we really need to do so. There are positive examples and hotels and service facilities where you come from, and you can even see their pictures on the wall that you know exactly whose apple in that hotel you eat or drink apple juice or consume cheese from a certain OPG. I think it is very important for others to see such examples that are extremely positive, and that is where we need to help them. It is not any interventionism of the state, but it is a integration and two sectors that are extremely important, which should be interdependent. Because we don't really want to offer tourists food that came from imports, but that our domestic food becomes an export product in tourism, and I think that makes sense and that we have the capacity to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61978	The next replica of the respected MP Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61979	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mrs. Petyr. I think it should once again put a great emphasis on the timely and adequate measures made by the government of the Republic of Croatia, but also by the Croatian National Bank. I think that's very important. I'm glad you mentioned 18 billion kuna. The freshest information on the promotion of employment policies in Prime Minister Plenkovic's term of office is more than 19 billion kuna. When we look at this structure, then we see that these funds are not only of the state budget but also of the European funds, most of all, for covid measures, for the preservation of jobs, and for the shortened working hours of the net amount of HRK 11 and a half billion. The rest refers to self-employment measures, the "desirable" programme, the employment of women, but also to the specialization of doctors and disabled people.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61980	Thank you. Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61981	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Thank you, colleague Buric, for this more detailed analysis you've given. I think it is important to hear and repeat this because these interventions and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the financial resources that have come from European funds and tax reforms that have somehow relieved the economy have led to the preservation of jobs, not only have we preserved them but also to record increased employment which still gives some optimism. And to conclude that the measures took place in time, that they were well targeted and that they produced good results.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61982	The Republic has a respected representative, Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61983	Dear MPs, I've been here for a year in the Parliament and I've been really trying to be constructive in the debates, and I've been trying to talk to people who are more than I am about to discuss both legislative proposals and various reports. I don't think it's right for some things to be taken away from their debate and to forget things. You mentioned the number of fiscalized accounts, you mentioned consumption. It's growing. But don't forget that only in the first quarter of this year, from Europe, our workers who work outside came a billion and 700 million euros in Croatia who spend our citizens who don't have money. Don't forget that plus that one billion came in, and about 100 million euros came in from donations from our people working for foreign companies. And there's the funds. It's not just what was produced, it's not just what this government did. Don't forget it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61984	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61985	Thank you very much, Vice President. Thank you very much, colleague Pavic. Here I agree with you that you in your discussions are correct and I wouldn't have anything to add. But my debate may take five minutes and yet as a representative I have the right to point out in my debate what I consider most important. And since you've already reminded me what should not be forgotten, I would also remind myself that we should not forget that we are also getting a lot of high funding from the European budget and that, compared to what we are paying and what we are getting is an excess of 50 billion kuna despite the fact that some different information could be heard here too. So, our membership in the EU has enabled us to make good benefits, we need to use them in a smart way, and I believe that in the next programming period that is ahead of us and that we are now programming very much to listen to what our people need, what our local communities need, and in this way we will set measures to give added value.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61986	Thank you. Now, finally, on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club of Representatives, the respected representative Vesna Vucilovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61987	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Governor, here we are today, a little bit of a cut-off, but you can hardly bear it. We're glad you responded to our call, although we had to collect signatures. I signed it myself. I think this was a good initiative. It's a report for last year, but it's an opportunity for us to talk about what's important today, and to look back at what's coming. A week ago, a student at the defense of my final work told me, you know, Professor, that's good in the past, that's all, but I'm a little more interested in the future. So do we representatives, especially those of us who remember both the '80s and the 1990s when inflation was 30% at the monthly level. Of course we're worried when we see the number that energy in the nine months compared to August went 40%. We are concerned that when we see Minister Coric say we will raise the price of electricity 40%, so the employers tell him and listen 60% is from a renewable hydro power plant. Neither the sun nor the wind have gathered, nor the water for such a hoarding? So it's a little more complex, and I understand the caution of both the governor and his colleagues in Europe when they're talking about inflation, but we can't ignore these inflationary movements and it's justified that here the parliamentary representatives who are supposed to be the voice of the people, means the voice of those who chose us. I am the voice of my Slavs, Baranjacs, Podravci from Virovitica-Podravska County who live more and more seriously, and they are interested in what the CNB will do to keep inflation contained if it continues at this pace. And of course it's justified to ask and ask such questions. And it's not to scare the people, it's to calm them down and get answers to the questions that bother us all. I'll give you just a few details. So in the ninth month, the price rise is 12.1%. It was 9.3 in the eighth month. It's a trend of growth, so it's a trend of growth. That's gonna spill somewhere. So the price of energy is also. We talked a lot about oil, about the price of gasoline, etc. I will also look back now on another topic that I have not been able to say, which is the introduction of the euro. So we heard here today we're going to be this great, great, we're going to grow pay, we're going to grow this, we're going to grow that. Prices will rise. It was like that everywhere. On average, 0.2%. But if you see the structure, then you see that what we use as bakery products, some services that we use every day grow far more. And when I listen to the governor, then I feel that concern for the entrepreneurs, for the citizens. But tell me honestly whose share of the debt in the euro is the biggest. States! That's what you know, and I know it, and we all know it. So the share of the state in this euro amount is far the largest. And that's why we're not talking about depression, because then the state would be a little more in debt in kunas than it is now. He says we'll be more favourable, the investors will come to us when we introduce the euro. So does Serbia have the euro? There isn't. Does Poland have the euro? There isn't. Is there a Hungarian euro? There isn't. None of those countries have the euro. See how much greenfield investment they have? Look at how much greenfield investment. Far more than we do. Let's not talk about being surrounded by investors, because we don't have the euro. They're bypassing us because the state isn't arranged, they don't trust the judicial system, they don't operate certain levers, and we don't give them the legal certainty they're used to. And here's colleague Pavić said one very important thing. In the first six months of the billion and seven hundred and forty-five million copies from the abroad of our workers, our emigrants. It's more than we ever did of this famous tourism we've been on our way at the same time. Okay, it's the first six months. But let us not forget that tourism is not everything and that there are other economic branches to develop, and there will not help us either the euro or much of what we have heard today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61988	The Honorable representative, Ruzica Vukovac, will now speak finally on behalf of the House of Homeland Movement's Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61989	The two largest segments of the Croatian economy are tourism and the state sector, which includes state-owned enterprises. The creation of economic recovery would mean that we are developing other sectors that will create new jobs and production, but this is not happening in Croatia. One billion kunas of European funds are invested in water supply and construction of schools or kindergartens. This will have a one-time impact on GDP growth, but once the sewers and new school facilities are restored, there will be no jobs, but the temporary effect of GDP growth will disappear very quickly and then we are back to the beginning with the same economic structure and problems of dependence on foreign tourists. It is easy to conclude that the political stability of those ruling on those wings will surely be maintained until the next elections, which seems to be only important. We are witnessing that the government and the CNB have opened the euro to a political issue because their economic reasons for introducing are weak and unargumented. It is clear that the euro introduction programme has not worked on someone who deals with monetary policy, because the most important argument for the euro is not at all the reasons mentioned but has been reduced to easier payment as a major argument which is less important. This speaks very much about the knowledge of monetary, credit policy in the Republic of Croatia and therefore we hold that the referendum initiative should be supported but also because all indicators from this information are saying that we are not prepared for such a step. On the contrary, we are extremely vulnerable – vulnerable economies, ruined food production, threatened sovereignty and at the edge of a demographic breakdown. Finally, I must point out that, unlike the people for state finances, inflation growth is excellent. Croatia has the largest share of VAT revenues in the EU budget. Price rise also means growth in VAT revenue especially when interest rates are low. Now our households will reduce savings so that they can maintain consumption or even better increase their consumption to buy goods before price increases, which means growth in budget revenues to the state and its lower deficit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61990	Now, finally, on behalf of the HSS and the Workers' Front, the respected representative Katarina Peovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61991	Here I'm gonna use five minutes to ask some more questions that I didn't get to discuss, and since we finally have another 20 minutes, I hope you have time to answer that. So first it's the APN loan issue. We have repeatedly asked you this question that clearly means raising real estate prices whether or not your opinion has changed and what, if there is any news about it. The second is what we asked you last time you were in the Parliament capital account. So that's a question that few people ask, and I don't think they're really either aware of the MPs and MPs how important that is. It means why every year, repeated and persistent CNB when it has a profit, it pays a lot less in the budget than it was prescribed by law. So the law says 80%, on average the CNB pays 36%. And that's a question I'd like to answer. And the third thing we had in the debate when you weren't there. So we're talking about dangers, so with these silent overruns that are now the subject of the debt enforcement agencies calling them so Colloquially taking over these overruns, that is, they're taking over those debts. Because we know, I don't think I'm repeating what's going on right now. And I'd just like to repeat some three points, maybe four is what I thought was an intensities in the debate. I wanted to point out first, it means inflation, and I'd actually like to hear from the governor what he thinks about solving inflation. It means that inflation isn't on top of that joke, is it related to Kenz telling capitalists, so you don't have to cut wages, just raise prices. The solution to that is indexing wages. So why don't we have a pay index. So if there's an increase in the price to be raised and paid automatically. The other thing I wanted to point out is that the CNB concentration on maintaining the stability of the course that you've confirmed to me. It's, I mean, we all know it's some sort of CNB emergency somewhere. Our perspective, meaning the perspective of the authentic left, is that I think it is without further accompanies policy and actually leads to what is somewhere even in your answer, and we often hear it from the prime minister the only way we deal with that trade imbalance, which is that internal devaluation. So we achieve our competitiveness only and exclusively by reducing the labour price and that goal, that direction, we will continue to enter the euro. I wouldn't, so I'm guessing with this right-hand side of the assembly that the problem is because we're not ready. It's one normative optimism that I don't quite agree with that we'll be ready at some point. That means our capitalism isn't good enough. Well, when we perfect it, then we'll be ready. I mean, what does that even mean, we're not ready? The problem with moving to the euro is precisely that internal devaluation, that all mechanisms that already exist will mean nothing new, we are already fully integrated into these mechanisms. The only way to mitigate this imbalance will be to re- and re-evaluate this internal devaluation. So again pressure on employment, cutting public consumption, social transfers, public investment, reducing labour prices and endangering labour rights. And what I generally think is that somewhere I'd give as some kind of criticism is that I think that in that monetary policy we really miss as well as in all the other political spheres we lack visions. Because the same thing in the end, I might just ask the governor if it's the only way he's talking in a foreign language. Is it really the only way we can, is that we don't have any other way but we can just follow what's written down and we can't give up on it at all. It is clear to me that those who are in high places often and personally feel some conservative solutions as simple because they do not expose themselves too much, but if we really want to do well to our people, sometimes we should be a little bit more courageous in me. So much for me, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61992	And now, finally, the esteemed governor of the CNB, Boris Vujcic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61993	Thank you very much. Thank you very much to all MPs for their discussions and for their questions. As usual, I will try somehow to unite into several wholes of my answers or my observations regarding these discussions. First of all, as far as the content of the report itself and the macroeconomic image itself is concerned, I would say that in 2020 was the most challenging year I've remembered since I was in the central bank. So when the pandemic crisis started, it seemed really worse than any crisis we've ever faced. At that point, you remember that the forecasts were very bad and as far as GDP is concerned, and as far as the labour market is concerned, as far as the banking system is concerned. At that time somehow accepted opinion I would even say against whom our forecasts were going and then that we would have 200, 300 maybe 400,000 people who would lose their jobs, that this crisis would last for years, that leaving it would take or in that form U, L, K, were different scenarios. However, the answer to that crisis was and then, if you remember I was more or less convinced that we could respond well to that crisis and that recovery would be quick. For what? Because the cause of the crisis was not similar to that of the previous crisis, the major financial crisis or the debt crisis in the Eurozone that followed it, which is a long-standing accumulation of imbalances from which it should then come out. At that moment, the primary imbalance on the current and plan of the capital balance account in relations with the abroad and fiscal imbalances, rather than simply stopping the economy that we ourselves have done in response to the occurrence of the epidemic. I was convinced that the moment all of this practical holding up means stopping social contacts to prevent the spread of the pandemic we will return relatively quickly if we do not allow lockdown to leave more lasting consequences to the economy in terms of termination of the contract. First of all, in terms of termination of the labour contract. So people's layoffs, because when you're faced with not being able to carry out economic activity, a normal corporate reaction is to cut fixed costs. Work is a fixed cost of the company. What happened, however, is that with a combination of monetary policy on one side, I will remind you that we have never intervened more in the history of the foreign exchange market, EUR 2.7 billion at the peak of the crisis, combined with the purchase of government paper, a sovereign debt worth 20 billion kuna, we have made it possible on the one hand to stabilise the foreign exchange market and the sovereign debt market, and the other is that the state is in a favourable position to support the fiscal incentives of companies whose activity has been slowed or halted. This led to a much smaller drop in employment than we had in the previous crisis, as many as 50,000 people, and allowed us to achieve a pre-crisis level of GDP in 2019 at the moment when the measures were reduced, not only for us but also for the world, but for us to have more employees today than we expected before the crisis. I think it's absolutely the best protection of population standards and I think it's exactly the job the CNB has to do and that's the best way to help not only preserve population standards but also grow. If we look at a little bit of what's going on on the market today, then I'll say a little bit more about inflation later, but inflation is definitely why international financial markets are already over-compating at this point. You see that countries with emerging markets such as Russia, Brazil, Turkey, Hungary, mean those that are not in some larger associations that are not moving towards the euro, but are emerging markets in a situation where the inflation rate is growing must raise interest rates rather quickly. So if you compare interest rates so now in Croatia where we are practically operating at an interest rate of 0 even though our repo rate is 0.25, but we are definitely at 0 and compare with these other countries and you will see that they all have significantly more interest rates than 2.5, 3.5 to 6.5%. Why is that? So one of the main reasons why this is so is the credibility of the monetary policy that we have sown throughout the years of maintaining stability, and the other is the fact that we are on our way to the euro area. So we are already enjoying the benefits of joining the euro zone tomorrow. In what way? In a way that we don't have to react at this point by raising interest rates, would our rate be as threatened as it is in other countries, in a way that our interest rates are already lower, whether we're talking about the interest rates at which the government is in debt, where the difference between the interest rate at which we owe it is, say, the German state at 10. and Croatia, practically now came below 1% point. That wouldn't have happened if we weren't on our way to the euro. The difference between the interest rates enjoyed by our citizens and businesses and those businesses in the euro area has come to some 120-130 basis points 1.2-1.3%, so it is historically the lowest. And it wouldn't have happened if we weren't on our way to the euro, so we're already benefiting from that, and we're going to continue that way, and they're going to materialise even more significantly in the months ahead and finally after we enter the euro zone. No one says all interest rates will be necessary forever from the moment of entry into the eurozone. What we're saying is that, as we'd be told... By keeping everything else constant and by doing so, the interest rates will certainly be lower after entering the euro zone than they would have been without it, which means the conditions for paying off debts that have been discussed in today's debate will be better, more favourable. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Remember what the terms of the debt service were 10 years ago. When I was here in the assembly talking about it, look at what they are today, the huge difference, it's the sky and the country in terms of funding both the economies of both citizens and of course the state. You mentioned the state before that, but the state is all of us, so it's in our interest that the conditions of state funding are as favourable as possible, but that means that there will be so many lower taxes, or that so much more state money will be available for consumption, for education, health, safety, anything we need. As for inflation, let's look at it a little bit, now we're talking about this moment where we have a sudden return to economic activity, we have an 8.5% GDP growth rate we see this year and of course we have a rise in energy prices, because it's not just a Croatian characteristic, we have a worldwide return to economic activity, it's primarily a rise in energy prices. We have a leap of inflation I said far the most contributes to the rise in energy prices any speech and about agriculture were not good weather conditions, so we also have a rise in prices, it's absolutely true, but it can change from year to year, these are some longer-term trends. But let's look at the last 20 years, the last 20 years. The average inflation rate in Croatia was 1.9% since the introduction of the EUR-o 2002, the past inflation rate in the euro area was 1.6%, so we were very close to maintaining the inflation rate slightly more than the average for the euro area. This year, as I said, I predict that we will have practically the same inflation rate as the euro zone 2.3%, which is the purpose of the central banks. Monetary policy cannot, there is no instrumentation to respond to the price increases of certain products, it can only affect the aggregate rate of inflation. In what way? Mostly if inflationary pressures come from the confirmed side, not from the side of the offer, right. At this point they don't come from the confirmed side, at this point, the tightening of monetary policy because we have an inflation rate of 2.3% would be the wrong answer. What's that supposed to do? Depletion of liquidity, growth in interest rates, growth in debt liabilities, less money available to the population for consumption, investment companies and the state or to raise taxes or lower consumption. Is that what we want in response to the 2.3% inflation rate, is that what monetary policy can do? I doubt that would be a good answer. What we will see next years that will happen is that this base effect of energy price growth will blow and therefore we expect to stabilise that inflation rate to 2.1%. If there are any unpleasant surprises, then it's also a challenge of course for monetary policy, but I would say primarily for global monetary policy... The European Central Bank, which we will eventually follow in the future as well. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, the main causes of why we have a rise in prices are the production chains that are practically decommissioned during the pandemic in the way that they functioned as a very precise clock that works on delivery just in doing so at any time, it no longer happens. You have a situation that you have a bunch of containers in Europe, you don't have containers in, in, in China at the moment you have a situation that passenger transport is still only 30% before the crisis, and in those passenger planes when you're driving always flying and the goods that someone ordered, they no longer fly or the prices of their transportation have increased. And thirdly, a lot of time for these things to be restored to the way they worked before the pandemic, so far we're going to have inflationary pressures, but I'm saying we don't see them at a level that would at this point require monetary policy to be significantly sharpened, that interest rates rise significantly, because of that they would have more damage than, rather than benefits. As for the EUR, I think it's best to take a look at it again, I won't talk much about it now, but I think it's best to look at the experience of countries that have already introduced the euro. Everyone is happy in these countries, look at the support of the euro in the countries that introduced it in Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Slovenia, Slovakia or other countries in Ireland, Germany, Austria you will see that on average some for the Eurozone I think 77% in many countries above 80%. If you ask Slovenians if the euro is good for the EU 90% thinks it is. Well, if it was bad, it means that the euro brought in something bad, if people's standards had fallen, they wouldn't have said it for sure. If you look at what happened, is that the main concern, what happened with the wage movement and the price following the introduction of the euro in Slovenia increased by 48%, prices by 26%, in Slovakia wages increased by 54%, in Estonia wages 74%, Latvia pays 67%, Lithuania which last paid 59% of the price. Is there more to it? So what do you say to people when you go in, prices will grow faster than wages and fall your standard of life, nothing that shows, we have no experience that has shown it. Experience shows exactly the opposite, that the population standard is growing after entering the Eurozone, not falling. A few words about consumer protection, there's always a lot of speeches about it, I'd like to say two things. One of those minuses, I've already explained that I think in my opening statement, as far as the minus reaction was really spotty. The first seven complaints from consumers were during the 2020 pandemic. means when we were dealing with other things and during that time our Consumer Protection Office organised a survey, established a fact based on the 2019 data, continued monitoring, proposed legislative changes. Nothing significant has happened to people, nor have they abolished the minuses, nor have they paid significantly more, I say four kunas, I have not said that 50 kuna is not much but four kunas a month the greater war of loans they had. None of the consumers offered to contact the CNB that's why we didn't. However, we will ensure that the protection of the principal provision of 12 war payments if someone comes into a situation to reduce or abolish the minus extends to those who are now in silent, and do not have that protection, although banks claim to offer it, we want it to be secured and legally. As for the sale of the claim, the claim-session, which the CNB does, it was a question, we check that consumers in the new believer do not come into a more unfavourable position. How do you do that? In such a way that, for materially significant sales of placements, bank placements must be notified to the CNB 60 days prior to the notification. The CNB then looks at the contract and unless it is satisfied with the contract, unless the contract allows it to return the contract to banks and requires a change of contract, so contracts must guarantee it to consumers. However, the moment the claim was sold to the CNB no longer has any jurisdiction over those who bought that claim. It is an area that has yet to be regulated legally, as I have said, and is working on a directive that will soon come into force that will also regulate the business of those who buy those claims. If someone is not informed by the bank that the claim has been granted, no one who asks them to pay for it but continues to pay that claim to the bank. Best protection, if it didn't happen, what banks had to do legally. As far as this question is concerned about the latest APN, is that someone once asked the same question, I think Representative Dark Taritash, our assessment is that APN participates with about a quarter of the price of real estate for the period for which we did that analysis, that was until last year. We'll see when we do a new analysis, it's probably going to fall because these other factors are becoming more dominant in real estate prices, but because of all those things that have been said so low interest rates, credit, low deposit rates and APN we don't expect further pressure on real estate prices. As for the payment of the income of the CNB, it is fully paid by law, you can be absolutely sure, it checks our accounting, it checks our auditor, it checks now and the State Audit and everything is done exactly by law. What's probably you, I think, I know why you came to that conclusion, because you were looking at unrealized profits, yes. You should only look at the realised profit, we have exchange rates, exchange rate differences are unrealised profits and it is not being paid into the budget that's the difference because you've come to that percentage. And finally two, three words again about wages and inflation and whether the solution when we enter the Eurozone is an internal devaluation like this, pays if anything grows more continuously faster than inflation, so they grew in the past faster than inflation and projections of the CNB that wages will grow faster than inflation and in the future. So we don't have that problem, we don't have to solve a problem that we don't have means some indexation at this point. If the inflation rate increased to those levels we used to have, then we had indexation then that makes sense. In this situation, we don't see any reason. The devaluation of the exchange rate would certainly be a worse solution for the citizens of Croatia, and they have 63 billion kuna on the euro, so a 10% depreciation of the kuna would increase the debt of citizens, meaning no businesses and state by 6.3 billion kuna. So, that's why Once again, entering the euro is good because this instrument is not good to use for more damage than good. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61994	Thank you very much. We've got more replicas on your exhibit, the first respected counsel of Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61995	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Governor, a lot has been said today about the effects of the introduction of the euro and I can agree that this is not a question that we must approach dogmatically, but in order to have a rational debate, I think it is important to ask you in your assessment what would be the effects if Croatia gave up the euro, if Croatia said here we will stop preparations for the introduction of the euro? Yes, we signed an agreement with the EU, that agreement has been ratified, we're on our way to preparation, but now we're gonna stop them. For example, how would this apply? At interest rates for the service of debts of state, business and Croatian citizens?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61996	Your Honor, Governor Vujcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61997	Thank you very much. If they did such a thing, it would undoubtedly have a negative impact on Croatia's financial position at the moment on Croatia's perception would lead to the interruption of this trend I was talking about, the drop in interest rates, the reduction in the front or the differences in the interest rates paid by the countries in the Eurozone or, say, Germany in relation to Croatia, there would be exactly the opposite trend where this front would start to reopen. Also, rating agencies would view this as negative news, would have a negative impact on Croatia's rating which would again have a bad impact on both the investment climate and interest rates. So this is undoubtedly a very bad economic news if it were to occur which would have a bad impact on the conditions of funding both states and businesses, at the end of the day and the citizens of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61998	The Republic has a respected representative named Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u61999	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Governor. You said you expected these prices of energy to blow up by next year and that the CNB could not affect the price of a particular product. But the fact is that if the price of energy increases as we now see it also affects the rise in the price of cereals and livestock, then the food we buy on the shelves is a whole cycle that ultimately collects a complete service, so we're not talking about one product anymore. Of course, I don't expect you to answer hypothetical questions right now, but are you prepared if the situation is such that prices of energy continue to grow and that these prices are not restrained to take certain steps and what steps would these steps be within the CNB and do you have any recommendations for executive authority as well?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62000	Your Honor, Governor Vujcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62001	Yes, if there was a significant rise in energy prices, regardless of what we now expect then a response to monetary policy, and if it only comes to the price of energy that increases then certainly it is not the ideal response of monetary policy again, is monetary policy again as I say we usually say it is a blind instrument, it cannot target a single product it targets all at once but then it is better to have some kind of tax or subsidy that target exactly the price of energy. If we have widespread price growth, wage growth, indexation, etc., then monetary policy is the one that needs to be sharpened and has an impact on inflation. But I'm saying if it's oil, gas, then it's better to target with the state policies of that particular energy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62002	Honorable representative, Dark Tarritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62003	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Your Honor, Governor. So, I belong to that option that absolutely thinks that the way of the Croatian euro is only right and that we are saving in euro, we are thinking in euro, cars are bought, apartments are rented, everything else is rented. But... when you start to develop emotion or when you listen to everyone else, and not some indicators, then there are no more arguments. So, what would be good, and I think you should always repeat it, and maybe if you do repeat it, there's a fear that's going to happen with the credits that people have in kuna today, so when she passes into the euro, something happens with these loans. So these are some real fears that we hear, that we have opportunities to hear, but I think this is an opportunity when you're in the assembly to answer it clearly and say what's going to happen because no matter what, someone's going to hear it, no matter what. more hear those other dissonant tones. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62004	Your Honor, Governor Vujcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62005	Thank you very much for asking. So you in the Parliament next year will at some point bring something called the Euro Law, the Euro Law will ensure that conversion and credit, meaning all prices, is carried out at a predetermined rate which will be most likely... precisely this course by which we entered into the exchange mechanism, without buying and selling prices, but only that rate, and all credit will be converted in such a way that the consumer is not in a worse position after conversion than it was conversions. In other words, all fixed interest rates will remain the same, and where the variable parameters can be changed slightly at another decimal, but never at the expense of the bank at the expense of consumers. And it will be within the law so that no one has to worry that the loan will happen to him the same thing that would bring him in any way worse position than he is now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62006	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62007	So here I don't know if you've seen the answer of Yanis Varoufakis to all the arguments that you've made here, and I'm going to repeat only one, so it's just saying that when Croatia enters the Eurozone that the euro will cause credit ratings to rise, that there will be a simpler debt refinancing and what you said lower interest rates and that we will generally make a profit. In other words, Varoufakis says the debt will grow much faster if Croatia adopts the euro, I don't think I'm reading the full answer now, since German capital from the Frankfurt banks will fly into the country. As for the rise in credit ratings, so Greece is our best example, so the credit rating when you get into a crisis has fallen anyway. When you listed Slovenia, that we might be able to view Slovenia as, they called it a transition tiger, but there was also how much more pessimistic I know in certain segments, but Greece is certainly a good example for us, you can't tell for Greece that her credit rating increased when she entered the Eurozone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62008	Your Honor, Governor Vujcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62009	I agree with Mr. Varifakis, and I know, so I discussed it with him. Certainly, Greece is not something we must imitate, I am sure that in Croatia what happened in Greece will not happen. What happened in Greece happened in Greece because of their poor macroeconomic policies and structural policies. Greece is even a country that has entered the euro area on the basis of, as was later found, falsified fiscal accounts and that is something that in the end when markets found that the situation is much worse there than, rather than it has been shown, Greece has cost such market perceptions and unfortunately this perception is not very good today, although the situation has changed significantly for the better lately. However, there is no reason for such a thing to happen in Croatia, Croatia's fiscal policy is far more responsible than, rather than Greek, there is no doubt about it, and everyone will confirm who is some kind of independent analyst and knows what happened in Greece. Only the crisis itself has led to a change in the situation in Greece, which today, as I said, is better.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62010	Thank you. Dear Representative Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62011	Dear Governor, colleagues before me have been very commendable to note that, in fact, Croats working outside Croatia, so abroad, whether at EU level or beyond, have paid more than a billion euros in their country in the first half of the year. If this continues until the end of the year, the amount could actually exceed the earnings from the tourist season in those best years. Since the government and the prime minister are actually constantly refusing to admit that emigration is an extremely important problem, is it perhaps a new measure to preserve Croatia's financial stability? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62012	Your Honor, Governor Vujcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62013	This is the fact that we have significant transfers of our diaspora abroad to Croatia, but it has been going on for years, it is not a new thing. They have grown something, they will by no means be greater than tourism revenues. This applies to the first six months, but in the first six months there was no tourism, now that 7th, 8th and 9th are included, then these revenues from tourism will be significantly higher than the revenues we receive from transfers from our emigrants or workers abroad. However, this is something I say is not a characteristic of the last period, it is practically a feature in Croatia since the 1970s, the 1960s when the emigration to Germany began, until the first second... the shock when it stopped, and it increased again and it is a significant income in Croatia. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] What we see now in Croatia, however, is that we have a large number of foreign workers, as Croats move out of so many people, means official numbers of some 35,000, those who deal with it will tell you that it is probably about 70,000 at this time of foreign workers and they are probably doing the same transfers in their country from which they came. It's a global economy, we have to get used to it, and it's going to be more and more.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62014	Thank you. The Republic has a respected representative, Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62015	Your Honor, Governor, I have a lot of questions for you, but here's how far I get. The first question is what do you think about the growth of the cryptic market, and will it have any effect on the Republic of Croatia and actually on financial stability in the Republic of Croatia? Secondly, what kind of projections of the CNB last year on price hikes for this year, and is this really deviating from the real prices that happened this year, or the rise that happened this year, so if there is a derogation, you would ask for a reason why this happened and possibly indicate the indicators that you were managing? And the third question, what exactly is the plan for the silent overruns, and what will include the amendments and additions to the relevant regulations that you are going to propose?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62016	Your Honor, Governor Vujcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62017	I doubt I'll make it all in a minute, but in a hurry. Cryptocurrency, we warn of the risk of the cryptcurrency, there's nothing behind them, they're not money, they're not guaranteed by any state, no central bank, we consider them a very speculative form of investment, and anyone who invests in them has to know that it invests in something that's very speculative, that I don't go any further. The second question was inflation projection, which was 1.7, they raised to 2.3. Two basic reasons, faster energy prices and what was said, agriculture, rising agricultural prices, partly due to the growth of imported agricultural products, partly due to the poor situation in Croatia and due to poor weather opportunities which also led to the rise of fruit and vegetables prices. As for this third question, we already have two proposals that we sent to the Ministry of Finance and I think we'll see the solution very soon. The solution will be to ensure that those who are in the quiet overruns are subject to the exact same standard in one way or another as those in the permitted one means that they are guaranteed to pay back what is in the 12 wars if they are reduced minus or abolished minus.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62018	Thank you. Dear representative Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62019	Thank you. Dear Governor Vujčić, therefore, what I particularly appreciate is that you, too, pointed out in your final speech that the best possible protection of the standards of Croatian citizens is to safeguard the stability of the labour market and I am pleased that you have particularly focused on the importance that wages have grown much faster than inflation has grown. These are the results that certainly did not fall from Mars, these are the results behind which strategic leadership, timely measures, adequate measures, in your domain of course and the CNB, primarily the Government of the Republic of Croatia. But what I want to remind you is that it wasn't always like that. We had another crisis back a few years, a global economic crisis when it was cracked on the labour market by 400,000 people, and a measure to preserve jobs was used only 4,000 times.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62020	Thank you. Your Honor, Governor Vujcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62021	Yeah, and then that crisis went on if you remember practically 6 years old, we 6 years old. We did not have GDP growth, and it took much more time for GDP to return to this pre-crisis level at all and for employment to return to the level where it is now practically within 12 months. I think it's a good lesson what the answer to this kind of crisis should be in the mix of monetary and fiscal policy. For this we also need to have space for the monetary policy that we are now creating, and in particular we will create it by entering the Eurozone because we will also be able to rely on the instruments of the European Central Bank and we will no longer have a problem with the course, the attack on the course. On the other hand, according to all our projections, the share of public debt in GDP now needs to continue to fall again until the pandemic to open up fiscal space for the next crisis. Surely the next crisis will come without doubt, the question is when, but to have fiscal space to react in a similar way. And it can be achieved only by reducing the share of public debt in GDP in good times. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62022	Thank you very much, governor. So I'd like to conclude a debate on this point, and we'll vote on it when the conditions are met. We are now going to the next point, which is: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the improvement of entrepreneurship infrastructure, first reading, P.Z. Number 177 Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economy and the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, respectable secretary of state Natasha Mikush Zigman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62027	Thank you. Dear MPs, honourable MPs, here is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, representing the Croatian Assembly of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Promotion of Entrepreneurial Infrastructure. The Law on the promotion of entrepreneurship infrastructure has been in force since July 2013 and defines the arrangements of the entrepreneurship infrastructure system covering entrepreneurship zones and entrepreneurship support institutions. The implementation of the law pointed out that it is necessary to amend certain provisions in order not to interpret them differently in practice, and also to point out that there is a need to supplement the law in order to cover certain changes within the entrepreneurship environment that have developed over the past years. As an example of such changes, the inclusion of free zones in the entrepreneurship infrastructure system can be highlighted, which is why we have also implemented amendments and additions to the law in 2018 while digital innovation centres as a new form of entrepreneurship support institutions have now been included in the entrepreneurship system, which have developed on the basis of an increasingly pronounced need to provide support to entrepreneurs precisely in the field of digitisation. Therefore, these amendments and additions are proposed not only in order to monitor the changes made in the context of entrepreneurship infrastructure, but also in response to new trends and requirements whose regulation will provide additional opportunities for the operations of supporting institutions and their users. Most of these users what's important to say are just small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. All proposed amendments to the law can be grouped into several subcategories. First, the amendments and additions to the provisions which are already contained in the law are further elaborated, which primarily relate to the definitions of entrepreneurship zones and supporting institutions and their roles, but also to the mandatory elements of the founding acts of entrepreneurship infrastructure entities. Secondly, it is about including the already mentioned digital innovation centres in the support institutions system and this as a subcategory of existing entrepreneurship centres. The main function of these digital innovation centres is to create a framework to support the economy, as I said primarily to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in the process of digitising business, digital transformation and the development of digital skills, and to mediate between service providers in the field of new technologies and potential users. Furthermore, the single register of entrepreneurship infrastructure as a database on business infrastructure entities is set up according to the national classification of statistical regions of 3 levels, so the county and more detailed rules are laid down which data on entrepreneurship zones and support institutions are recorded in the single register, and the content or elements of the guidance on the single register adopted by the minister responsible for the economy is defined. As regards the requirements of the units of local and regional self-government to be granted real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia for the purpose of establishing or operating entrepreneurship support institutions, these amendments and additions to the law shall be defined by the conditions, criteria and procedures of conduct, or shall be determined when the donation of real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia for the purpose of the establishment or operation of entrepreneurship support institutions, hence this second category is considered justified. The concept of the detention of the purposes of donated real estate and the possibility of extending the period of detention of the purpose and the situation in which such a contract for the donation of the breakup is established. This additional arrangement therefore, the availability of real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia has been motivated by the effort to manage state assets responsibly and rationally on clearly prescribed and pre-known criteria, i.e. since the same is the property of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, we therefore considered it necessary to further regulate these criteria. In late September, here are just a few statistics, at the end of September of this year, a unique register that I mentioned earlier included 592 entrepreneurial zones, of which 290 entrepreneurial zones are functional, so the deliveries are actually documents and data necessary for the verification of enrolment in the single register. Also, at the end of September of this year, 265 entrepreneurship support institutions were registered in a single register of 202 entrepreneurship support institutions provided all necessary documentation and data necessary for the verification of registrations in the register. Here, the Government of the Republic of Croatia therefore proposes the adoption of this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Promotion of Entrepreneurship Infrastructure to improve the entrepreneurial environment in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62028	We have more replicas, she is the first respected representative of Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62029	Thank you very much. Respected secretary of state. Here I watched a little of these conditions that should be met in order to donate land by the Republic of Croatia and the conditions or times in which the processes of creating entrepreneurship zones should be completed, and then I went to watch a little bit for the area of Sisak-Moslavina County, we know that there were earthquakes. I saw that there was a plan for entrepreneurial zones in 2015-2020, so it is now pre-election announced that new business zones will be opened, coffee is actually a situation throughout Croatia? Do you have an analysis of the situation as we are now standing with entrepreneurship zones, how much has been achieved in the first place, how much has been filled, and here I am particularly interested in the area of Sisak-Moslavina County, what is the situation in view of the earthquake? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62030	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62031	Thank you very much, Commissioner Maric, for your question. So, as I said earlier at this point we have entered 592 entrepreneurial zones, but only 289 have actually delivered all the necessary documents for verification in the register itself, and for Sisak-Moslavina County we can subsequently supply data, so I don't have them at this point distributed by county level so that we can certainly collect these data afterwards and deliver them. So this tells us that about 50 percent of the zone verified by saying my registration in the register of entrepreneurship zones. The support institutions are approximately the same as the percentage.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62032	The esteemed representative of the Vukovac has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62033	... [[Speech is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62034	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62035	Thank you very much for asking. So the establishment of business zones is actually taking place on the initiative of the unit of local and regional governments and self-government so that the founding county assemblies or city assemblies make their own acts to establish or set up business zones and our task is then to verify or enter them into the register itself, or register them, so that it is actually an initiative on local authorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62036	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62037	Thank you very much. Respected secretary of state. So this law of this amendment and the addition of the law allows somehow easier procedure when it comes to or perhaps faster procedure when it comes to land owned by the Republic of Croatia and I have no dilemmas there. I think what's owned by the Republic of Croatia needs to be faster, easier to put into function. The worst part is when you have something and you don't have it. But what would be good is that until the second reading we have, and I think we should really add to that trail, see some sort of existing state. So, the current situation we have entrepreneurship zones and we have units of local self-government doing a great job, which also have a need for further entrepreneurship zones, and we have where the state gave land, where someone invested and where those entrepreneurship zones are that they don't do, which they haven't even started to do. So it would be kind of another reading if in that sense we had an explanation and we could see a real picture and a real state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62038	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62039	Thank you, Mrs. Dark Taritash. On the one hand, we are 2018. with the Economic Institute, they have been working on a certain analysis of the effects of establishing entrepreneurship zones which have shown significantly that the establishment of a zone in local administration units has positive effects in terms of local economic development and attractiveness of entrepreneurs. What is important to emphasize in this context is of course very different situation from unit to unit and indeed in some of them exist, we have a situation that a large number of zones have been established, but they are not in their full function and for this reason also a condition for the donation of state property is set up for a certain degree of filling with business activity to encourage local administration units to be founded when there is an interest of entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62040	Honorable representative Antoliæ Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62041	The Honorable Chairman, Proposer. So, the existing analysis that you have now mentioned was made for the existing Law on the Promotion of Entrepreneurial Infrastructure, you have given an answer, it was actually my replica, but it would have been pointed out that so far in terms of size of the entrepreneurial zone in square meters, and not cadastral particles, it should therefore be in square meters, and not in cadastral particles, given that sometimes they are in part inside, and some outside of the entrepreneurship zone, so I would ask you to clarify how this will actually be solved in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62042	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62043	Well, here's a thank you for your proposal, and of course we'll consider the same between the two readings. At this point, indeed, the area can be defined in a way that covers particles intended for business activity, but there is also this particular number of particles or areas where business activity is not happening and, in fact, in the verification of, for example, the availability of state land and the allocation of state land for the operation or operation of the zone, we are just taking into account the part where this entrepreneurial activity is taking place.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62044	Dear Representative Anamaria Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62045	Thank you very much. Respected secretary of state. I think these changes are good, they're moving forward with the demands and trends that you said yourself, it's a good thing that a more detailed register of entrepreneurial infrastructure is defined. It is also good to define the criteria of handling in the case of the availability of real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia for entrepreneurship infrastructure. What confuses people on the ground is the difference between local development agencies and entrepreneurship centres, which is linked to the Regional Development Act. I wonder if according to this law there is an obstacle to a company being enrolled as a local development agency and as an example. a digital innovation centre, or can a legal entity have more forms?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62046	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62047	... Excuse me, there is no obstacle for one legal entity to be so qualified in the register for providing therefore different services. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] Of course, local levels of the agency fall under the Regional Development Act and they actually do certain services precisely for their founder, but if they are engaged in the activity of providing services to entrepreneurs they can actually, by this law, be classified, categorized as a supporting institution.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62048	Your Honor, Your Honor, Agent Daus.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62049	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, every improvement needs to be welcomed, so we welcome this. However, if entrepreneurship is to be further developed at regional level through entrepreneurship support institutions, I mean only non-commercial ones, we believe that one financial support should be given to such and the state itself independently of the European Structural Investment Funds. It seems to me until about 10 years ago that they existed, and now they're gone. I repeat only to those non-commercial, so I'm interested in your opinion and whether it's being considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62050	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62051	Thank you very much. Well, not only did we think about it, but we did a lot. So, we are precisely considering that in some way it encourages the maximum use of European funds and for the purpose of creating a business infrastructure that is itself and with our entrepreneurs, so we have through 2 competitions one aimed at business zones, financing business zones, and the other according to exactly supporting institutions such as incubators of business, business incubators, so we have allocated certain EU budgets for the development of that infrastructure. We expect that during the period ahead of us, so the period of '21. By '27, the EU's multiannual financial perspective under the Integrated Regional Operational Programme continues to exist. Certainly the intensity to use EU money available for these purposes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62052	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62053	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State you said that 592 entrepreneurial zones were registered in a single register, of which 289 provided the necessary documentation. So 50% of them aren't actually verified. What does this mean specifically in practice? Does this mean that these areas that have not supplied the documentation actually do not have adequate entrepreneurship infrastructure and in them entrepreneurs do not do business or is in something else's problem?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62054	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62055	Well, that specifically, thank you very much, that specifically means that we can't really categorize them as fully functional and equipped zones. So it would be actually good and here and I would like to encourage and encourage, in fact, the units of local and regional administrations and self-government that where it is possible and necessary and where they actually want to put into full function of such a zone, that we are to register or verify and deliver the full documentation that is needed to formalize it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62056	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62057	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Secretary of State, we, as a political option, support every initiative, every law that goes towards making it easier for our entrepreneurs to carry out their business activities, new innovations, new market impulses. But when we talk about this law, I think there are two elements that need to be given more attention. One assigned land owned by the state to units of local self-government. The prime minister himself is often called for vertical integration, so he says in translation that some things make it easier for those units where local authorities hold the same political option that has power at the state level. Unfortunately, the prime minister himself too often boasts, and we are aware that that is exactly the practice. And the second is the lack of control as the logistics conditions of the entrepreneurship centres themselves are granted. Very often, one entrepreneur enters and stays there forever, and some other entrepreneurs are denied access. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62058	Respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62059	Thank you for your question and comment. Well, that's all I could say is that the conditions for granting state land are very clearly prescribed in the law. Therefore, they consist of the following, that the representative body makes or that it has made a decision to establish such a business zone, it must be envisaged by a spatial plan as a building plot for productive business purposes, the zone should be a single unit just designed to build this infrastructure and, therefore, at the level of that single unit must be completed 50%. So these are very concrete and exact criteria by which we can then assign state land and I would not say that we are guided by other criteria.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62060	Dear Representative Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62061	Respected State Secretarys would also touch that part of the real estate available to the Republic owned by the establishment or operation of entrepreneurial support institutions, but praise this, uh, these changes in one good hope because we have often had the opportunity to actually see that when a local unit or an entrepreneurial support institution at local level had the desire and the need to use some state property, the process often lasted too long. We are, I come from Pula where we have a lot of state property that unfortunately have not been used, and we have an example of good practice where, unfortunately, the state has been waiting too late or long to use one building where the co-working centre from European funds will work, so do you expect these changes to speed up?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62062	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62063	Thank you very much. Here, so we believe these changes will speed up this process. It covers, on the one hand, the fulfilment of these conditions which I had previously talked about, but also the process at the Ministry of State Property which must therefore be checked for ownership of the land of the food which covers both the zone and the basis of it and in contact with the State Attorney's Office, of course, which checks the same certain conditions, after which a decision on donation is made, depending on its value is signed by either the Minister in charge or the decision is taken at the government level. What we are actually doing with these changes and additions is also defining the criteria for donation for entrepreneurial support institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62064	Dear representative Zmajić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62065	Thank you. The Secretary of State, these amendments and additions to the Law on the improvement of entrepreneurship infrastructure are more detailedly arranged to donate property to units of local or regional self-government, and municipalities, cities and counties are applicants, and one of the conditions is that there is at least one employee in the year preceding the year in which the request for donation was submitted. Who has to have an employee of that person, of a municipality or of someone else? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62066	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62067	Thank you very much. It is the conditions and conditions for entrepreneurship support institutions which must therefore have one employee in the year preceding the donation of infrastructure. However, this is not the only condition that should be met in order for this to happen, so there should be a decision once again to which unit of local administrations set up an entrepreneurial support institution and what is extremely important is that it should have a programme of implementation, so the programme of provision of services to entrepreneurs is, therefore, what it will actually offer and whether the means for the operation of that support institution are ensured. Under these conditions, public infrastructure donations can then occur.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62068	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62069	Good afternoon, here's not only that we learned from the NPOO that the state would sell companies, 150 of them by '23. and 185 of them by the end of '26, not only do we know that the state has given up 1/3 of companies or companies of special importance, but here we now find out that the state will also give up. And I'm interested in what the criteria are, you said that the criteria are more or less just for you to agree to the local environment, right? The criteria for me should be much more serious, not only for the number of jobs that this entrepreneur opens but also for the character of what this entrepreneur produces, the value for the local environment, the value for the overall social environment, and not for me to say that this entrepreneur should meet some criteria that are of this kind of content type, and not only of the technically technical type, and that means that the local environment agrees.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62070	And the last...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62071	Thank you very much, counsel...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62072	It's over, it's over with the replicas, isn't it?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62073	Should I answer that?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62074	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62075	So here, given that I have cited the criteria in question, I do not think we can agree that the state gives only to a statement of interest, so the state infrastructure is indeed in the example of entrepreneurial support institutions, which is, in fact, exactly what these changes and additions are about, so the units of local administration must show through their programme and prove how the supporting institution will actually provide support to entrepreneurs, and for that they must have insurance and funds. And it's just a purpose... Okay. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62076	Thank you very much. Now you're really done with the replicas. Does anyone from, some from, who represent clubs speak club representatives, a board of pardons? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. It's Mrs. First. Vesna Vucilović in front of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns. Let's catch the rhythm again a little bit, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62077	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the National Assembly, but today you're working twice as hard as I have to notice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62078	What do you say?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62079	You work twice, you've been both in the morning and here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62080	So listen, modern society.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62081	All praises.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62082	Modern society.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62083	Respected secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. There are no municipalities and no cities that have no entrepreneurship zone. For a time, it was small and modern. If you don't have an entrepreneurial zone and a circular flow with a flower shop in the middle, and often with the weeds in the middle you're not in the trend, you're not following the events, you're not. So we've heard 585 active, but 585 in total if I'm not mistaken for something smaller, less active, construction is funded by billions of kunas, it's not small funds, something from the budget, something from the funds, if we add more support institutions, there's a lot of funds invested. It's not that weird, we're a country that's transitional, which remembers that socialist legacy. Entrepreneurship is something that started studying in our colleges 20-25 years ago. And even then I remember talking about the entrepreneur being born, then somehow we in the economy brought people closer that it wasn't exactly so, that there are certain knowledge that can be adopted, to the entrepreneur can be de facto everyone, it doesn't have to be someone just by their birth. Entrepreneurial zones are areas which, of course, are designed to carry out entrepreneurial and economic activities, characterized by the joint use of the infrastructure-based space of available resources by all entrepreneurs in order to optimise and reduce their operating costs. The aim of this is to reduce these regional differences that are quite pronounced among us, of course to stimulate economic growth, to achieve faster growth of entrepreneurship, to increase investment, employment, etc. If we've achieved this with these over 500 entrepreneurial zones, I'm afraid we're not because the figures don't add up. Regional differences are growing, entrepreneurs face a number of business problems that are not necessarily related to the start of business itself and already many entrepreneurs point out that the programmes to start are so-called start-up. The start-up program has numerous and sufficient and incentives both at the state level and at the county level and at the city and municipality level. But what is missing now are certain programs that will successfully end the first stage for entrepreneurs who have gone into the world of entrepreneurship and who will develop their business and move from that category of micro and small to the category of medium-sized entrepreneurs and make that step that can often be very demanding and bring with it many dangers. In doing so, I must point out that we often have this focus on only one variable when we talk about a number of problems, and so on entrepreneurship and specifically here in entrepreneurship zones. So if we say that every production function is a function of capital and work, then we're doing this part of it and we're starting to reduce those resources that are needed, but what about this other part, what about the workforce? A number of activities are in trouble because they do not have enough workforce. We have passed this Foreign Law, so now we have liberalized that labour market, the Nepali come, come from Bangladesh, Pakistan, but they see Croatia as only a springboard for going to Germany and some other countries. And we have to ask ourselves why someone would come into the entrepreneurship zone, for example. in Muc or Podgorica if there is not enough qualified workforce there and what have we done that the workforce that is qualified enough remains there and does not go to Germany, Sweden, Ireland or any other developed EU country? In this way, we would also be stopped from evicting from Slavonia, Baranja, Banovina, Dalmatian Zagora, parts of Croatia that actually record demographic devastation and face a number of problems in that segment. We've just heard here about state property, they'll bow. I personally think it's better to donate state property than to stand empty, devastated, turn into a rat, it's dangerous for the health of the population, such examples we have very much. There are also at Nasice, you have a former factory that was textile, there was some textile industry, staring empty, it's better to give it to someone because it's in what state it is now, it's a danger to the people who live there. And let's not kid ourselves, live at a time when NASA signed a contract with Elon Musk for flights to space, and in Croatia, the state deals with the production of chocolates, that's reality, and we need to get away from that concept. What I think would be a quality basis for changing and supplementing this law is also a detailed analysis of entrepreneurship zones and why is such a large number of inactive, why is there no entrepreneurial activity in them? We often have a problem, the county and municipalities or the city cannot agree, we should make a road, especially if it is not the same party in power 100 problems. There is no road, there is no license, so it's not quite as simple and I think it still needs one quality analysis of the work so far as entrepreneurial zones, but also supporting institutions that also grow as mushrooms after rain because they are also mentioned here as a significant factor and most have their function. There are signs of these development agencies, entrepreneurship centres, business incubators, entrepreneurial accelerators, business parks, scientific technology centres competences... etc. Yeah, there's plenty of that. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is valuable to help entrepreneurs without further and mainly in a segment relating to the achievement of regulations and documents in the forest, including the application for programmes financed by European funds, but I must ask myself, is there perhaps party personneling? And probably not even this segment is immune from that pain that our numerous institutions suffer from. Recently, media reported that a head office in the county worked at the same time as the director of a development agency in a municipality with the blessing of the mayor. It's hard for two jobs to do quality work at the same time, so we can only conclude that one of those jobs may be unnecessary. So maybe we should also do a survey once a year among companies in the entrepreneurial zone how much these supporting institutions actually benefit them, how much they do, and how much they help in their development and work, or are there because it's just so conveniently called, and then we go, there's in that other municipality, in the city, so let's do it with us. So, regardless of whether support institutions from budgets or structural funds are financed, we don't really need another segment in which party-like personnel will work. And finally I'll just say, let's not forget that the EU budget is filled with taxpayers' money from the Republic of Croatia. The changes ahead of us are acceptable, we hope that it will help to solve certain problems faster and we in principle support them in Croatian sovereigns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62084	Thank you. Now it'll be Mrs. Gossip. Anka Mrak-Taritash speak for the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62085	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, the respected secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. We have before us the first reading of the Amendments and the additions of the Law on the improvement of entrepreneurship infrastructure. It is the law of 2013 which was last amended in 2018 when the subject was once again related to entrepreneurship zones, i.e. space. What you do when you change and supplement any law, so when you follow it, then you do an analysis of the existing state and then you see the goal that you want to achieve and what the point is and how it is to achieve and what the steps are and what the elements are. In Croatia there are 556 units of local self-government, so 555 + The City of Zagreb which is a small town and a small county, and we have 287 units of local self-government, 585 entrepreneurial zones. I think it would be good to do another reading, although this is one time and I'm always ready and commendable, however, it's very easy to praise, this is, the explanation of this Law is one of the more quality that we get, but when you get more quality, then it should always be even better. So it would be good to see in the explanation what our situation with these entrepreneurial zones is because you've given some cumulative data, you know, that's what everybody eats, and someone eats acidic desires, and someone eats only meat, we actually know these entrepreneurial zones, what their non-functioning, what theirs is, somehow puts them on some kind of tables, what their use is, and it would be good to see how many employees we have here. The topic that opens when connected to the entrepreneurial zone opens several layers of the topic. From this, that in 287 units of local self-government entrepreneurship zones, it says that our units of local self-government are different. That there are those who want to open up entrepreneurship zones, that there are those who are ready for it and there are those who may not be interested in it at some point. In doing so, I really don't think it should be that key, so every single unit of local self-government is an entrepreneurial zone because it's not even possible, it's neither rational, and it all doesn't make any sense together, but it's kind of obvious that there's an interest in those who want to invest and those who are slightly weaker. It's the same way to open two things. One thing is who works in entrepreneurship areas. So, the problem of demographics in Croatia, the problem of employees in Croatia is the problem that will open more and more. I, preparing for the debate that was before this, went to read a little bit about the workforce, came here, actually interested a little bit about the investments and that Chinese wave, the rolling wave behind the rolling hill, the possibility that this big investor and the biggest investor in the Chinese market, some hundred thousand apartments that began to work to fail because of the loan, but of course, it's not a topic along with this, and then I wanted to see a little bit of what was with the labour force in construction and what I read, that Germany at this time had the needs for 3000 construction workers. Germany will go to solve its need for 3000 construction workers, and the question is where we will find our need for our construction workers or for the workers in the catering industry, I have also read, so I am speaking data that I did not find on the web but data that in some serious magazines that I have read or serious articles, says that this year when tourism started, the need for 10,000.../incomprehensible/... that 10,000 workers in tourism were missing. So I just want to put it in the context of entrepreneurial zones. It's the easiest thing to do, it's the easiest thing to do, it's under quotes, but take some space, and then put some money in it, and then put it on communal equipment, and then you go there with some kind of story. The question is, the key question we need to open in this House, who will work in Croatia? And I'll just have one more comparison and then I'll stop. I was in Poland a few years ago when, when the EU was better said to be quite clear, Germany, because everyone who goes to the EU was always looking at Germany, when Germany opened up the possibility that, yes, Germany could work for the Ukrainians. Poland, public transport in Poland has stopped. So what's going on in England right now is that public transport, so everything, both urban and intercity drivers were Ukrainians and they, at that point, just quit and went a little further, went to Germany. Public transport stopped and then they were their own army, the army was driving. What you can read today, in what's going on in the UK, they don't have gas on gas stations, not because there's no gas, but because there's no one to drive. For another law, when I somehow went to watch the analysis, in Croatia at the moment is the greatest need for labour in tourism, so that's about 10,000. The need for cleaners, cleaners, the need for transporters, the need for a series, a series of workers. So to go back, not to go to a discussion somewhere else where I don't need to, but it's all about entrepreneurship zones, so the topic is that when you make and decide and decide and make a decision and even has someone and will and say okay, I'm starting with my own, there's a good idea, we're going to need to open up, or we're going to have a problem with who's going to work here. But, of course, I'll come back, here, for the end of the debate, and then I'll do that in an individual, my favorite theme, which is land management in the Republic of Croatia, to put it simply. So this, by this law, we define something that will assign state land to units of local self-government for entrepreneurial zones and to those who are active, who will, who want where needs have been shown. I am on the parent board, and it was the Committee on Economy, and then I was discussing the provision of the law where I said that in the provision of Article 6, when you introduce a land particle, so in the provision of Article 6, a list of all land particles is being introduced as something new, and then I said give the terminology, we do not know in the terminology of some other laws land particles, we know the cadastral particle. Why am I specifically referring to this? I specifically state for the reasons here, the Ministry of Economy said we want to help, we want to give, open the possibility that the state can grant them or give them land, so let's not turn out to be tied up by this hand itself, so until the second reading you can absolutely do it, and now explain that I am not using time here, not land particles, but a cadastrian particle. So, we all have a list and look is taken to the cathedral, and property is run in the garland. But that's where we get the key problem. And the key problem is the next one. An awful lot of land is in different ways in the dispute between units of local self-government and between the state. Those who are a little longer in this world and who remember for a little while know that this occurred when a law was passed that everything that is in the building areas is no longer owned by the local self-government units or owned by the state not to say that it came from different things that even today we have a recommendation that on some land we have certain ministries registered and everything else. What exactly is it that I want to point out, and this is what I'm saying? I am absolutely sure that it is incomparably better to land owned by the Republic of Croatia, to put real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia into operation. The worst is when they don't function, but in order to be able to put something into function you need to know what you have, you need to know as soon as you have it, you have to have it recorded. So, I was one of those guys who no matter what I was an opposition who today said ok, we have when we had the Ministry of Property after all those AUDI, DUDI and all that, I said it shows to me the will of the then government that is in some changed composition and the current government but the prime minister is the same, that, you have, has the will to finally begin to settle your property. It's been four years since then. I tried to get the data back, get the state property records. About the state property records are where she was four years ago. We can change, I'll keep going into individual laws, create conditions, until the state knows what the government will not be happy with.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62086	Thank you. Mr Tomislav Klaric, will speak in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62087	The Honored Chairman, the Honorable State Secretary with the co-worker, co-workers and fellow councillors, told the State Secretary more or less about these amendments and the additions of this law in her opening statement. It is acceptable with certain adjustments. I would look back a little bit in the past in my presentation, a little historical sequence of all this because I was an active participant in all these past periods when we started from some central state office, so she had AUDI, and then we had DUDI, so we had a special ministry and then we had the adoption of this law in 2013. Through all these institutions that until then, those active in municipalities and cities, on the ground, had an entrepreneurial initiative, founded industrial business zones, encouraged the economy everywhere in some way, in all of the previous activities, it was sometimes easier, but at the time of adoption of this law, it was practically the units of local self-government in the area of the entire Republic of Croatia that made land owned by the Republic of Croatia impossible. In fact, then Minister Maras was of the opinion that municipalities and cities within a certain number of kilometers should have entrepreneurship zones, and 66% were not filled in to the total amount of this disabled land donation owned by the Republic of Croatia. Thus, cities and municipalities were forced or bought private land and spent huge resources, and they simply could not get funds from the state. By changing the government in a way I was actively involved in this, there was a change in the law at the time and these unfortunate 66% of the fulfillment of the 20km criteria. When we imagine Istria or the Primorje-Goran County or put a six hundred and twenty km we practically come that all units of local self-government in that circle, and the filling of all their capacities in a spatially planned sense are simply impossible and inexhaustible. The correction that was then made has made it possible to make one visible progress and it is also manifested at this time. So that 66% of the fill is reduced, it's placed within units of local self-government. At that point, I was also giving a different thought to the units of local self-government that had more entrepreneurship zones in their space, to take this criterion for each individual, not in their sum, because I am a sequence of solving or building infrastructure in these business industrial areas simply requires a certain time. So, with a 66% criterion within 20 km, it was simply impossible for all cities and municipalities to in any way consider making a request to the then or ministry or government or... or Audi, as they were already called. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] At this point, the situation is much better, and in some ways you can see it on the ground. With these changes and laws, there is still no part of it that every zone in each JLS sees itself as a unique whole. I'm some kind of active participant in the construction of these business zones, all of those peripetias that preceded this and the important thing, here it is necessary and certainly highlighted, and it is related to state land, it refers to the government's regulation or the '91 Agricultural Land Act. when JLS's provisions are practically those of land which was registered as JLS' property through the state's attorney's office are simply registered to the Republic of Croatia. It's about the same land. So, when we talk about land donation by the Republic of Croatia here by the Ministry of Economy, here I can also praise the communication with employees and professional services at the Ministry, but what should be pointed out, I said and pointed out on the board, is the problem of capacitation in this part of the current ministry among people who are operating in the Ministry of Construction right now, and in this section relating to state property. The more with the growing investment, investment swing, at this point which, regardless of the crown crisis, we can witness throughout the Republic of Croatia and the large amounts of European funds, the ministry is simply not, that part of the ministry is not simply in the current operational opportunity to solve all the problems, so that the JLS requirements for them stand for several years. And I think that the State Secretary should, in cooperation with the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction, decide that this part should be done and that it should be in the interest of all of us. As far as the law itself is concerned, it may be possible to consider this year's deadline. In fact, we have situations that even the state investments made in the field of certain JLS over the past few years have not been carried out through the catastran. Recently here in HS we discussed and brought practically a good programme of catasters in the area of the Republic of Croatia. If we look at the problem faced by all cities and municipalities, from unresolved property relations, from the lack of titleholders of ownership or about owners who perhaps 100 years ago went somewhere in Argentina or some other country, so these are the problems that JLS are constantly facing and simply are not able to do without these resolved property relations in a short period of time to solve all these problems and come up with some building permits and start investments with that dynamic that they thought would be desirable or that this would be in line with their development plans. What's important is that the Republic of Croatia, compared to the last 20 years at this point, has been spatially implemented, let's put it this way, to some perfection. We who acted in one way or another in cities and municipalities were aware that there were spatial plans at the time, let alone detailed urban and all others. At this point, spatial planning documentation is resolved, there is a good investment momentum now and Croatia is becoming a desirable destination for investors and I think that any measure that goes in this direction to enable JLS to make it easier to build both infrastructure and start an economy in its area, deserves both due attention and praise. So, this proposal to amend and supplement the law is practically from the very adoption of the law already 4th amendment of the law. Since its adoption in such a form as it was originally imagined he was practically, as I was saying earlier, blocked the JLS in the sense of even thinking about seeking land from the Republic of Croatia. Later this has been resolved during experience and years, and I think it is now time for these things to be considered even recently, and this period of one year after I think that it should in some way be linked to the real possibility of achieving the plans in view of the resolved property relations, given that the circle of land should be bought from private owners, a whole series of documents needed should be addressed, financial resources should be provided to move towards the realization of this project. As far as this proposal is concerned, the HDZ Club supports it and I believe that in the final form it will be satisfactory and acceptable for all. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62088	You, too. - Mrs. Crescent. Anya Shimpraga, will speak for the SDSS Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62089	Thank you, Vice President. Respected secretary of state with a co-worker, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The implementation of the Law on the improvement of entrepreneurship infrastructure so far has highlighted the need to amend and supplement the legislative framework. Since we know that certain occurrences have been identified which have not been regulated or have not been adequately or sufficiently regulated. While certain provisions need to be amended in order not to be interpreted differently. Enterprise infrastructure under the current law, which has been amended three times so far, makes up entrepreneurship and business support institutions. The areas of the institutions are one of the most tangible segments of the state's action on the ground because their existence draws jobs behind them, but they also benefit from those who do business with the entities in which they operate. Let's face it, people are the most important jobs, and they are dragging the development of the entire economy and society as a whole. Zones and support institutions are definitely the drivers of certain regions and there are countless examples of how certain environments have started and progressed accordingly. The aim, i.e. the development and improvement of entrepreneurship infrastructure, is also to promote economic growth through planning and timely construction of entrepreneurship infrastructure, which is further in the function of a balanced regional development of the entire Republic of Croatia, as well as faster growth of entrepreneurship, increased investment and employment within the area where entrepreneurship infrastructure is planned or built. At the end of the 5th month. In 2021, 585 entrepreneurship zones were registered in the Single Register, in which 1,927 entrepreneurs employ as many as 60 545 workers, and 740 inactive entrepreneurs are expected to start operating within those entrepreneurship zones. So that number will surely have to increase over time. I hope that these changes and additions will contribute to the importance of the Unique Register of Entrepreneurial Infrastructure, which is set up as one systematised database on Entrepreneurial Infrastructure Entrepreneurial Infrastructure Entrepreneurial Infrastructure Entrepreneurs and Sustainable Development, because, as we have heard and repeated several times, only 287 entrepreneurship zone units of local and regional self-government in the function of their founders have submitted the documentation, as well as the data necessary for the verification of entries in the Single Register. It's a good thing they're part of this law and free zones that I talked about during the Report on Free Zones in the Republic of Croatia. As I said at that time about free zones, and this can be partially applied to entrepreneurial zones, their perhaps biggest problem, if it can be defined as such, is the fact that our areas are dominated by businesses, and these areas are often used to store oil, cars, sugar and other goods imported in large quantities, and to which customs and taxes are then paid only when they come out of these zones. So free zones, and often business zones in the Republic of Croatia do not have any more significant production, as is the case with areas in developing countries, so the question is to what extent they meet the purpose for which they are created. The aim we need to achieve this, by amending this Law, is to force production activities in the zones, not so many service activities that we will definitely contribute to and increase the number of employees themselves. I still believe that it should start with the establishment of a free zone in Banja, primarily with users who are oriented to production activities. Definitely means the benefits of forming a free zone would feel everyone and this area of special state care would liven up. In addition to all the advantages of the free zones provided by the positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia, potential users of the free zone could take advantage of the proximity of the border from BiH, the proximity of Zagreb and Zagreb airport, good road connection with the rest, and today-to-morrow and the Sisak-Zagreb highway. Entrepreneurs from Bania would have a central meeting place, the population of Bania would get a chance to hire and start a new chapter. Given that the state budget and European funds co-financed infrastructure building in entrepreneurship areas, we must ask whether this has led to the objective of helping our entrepreneurs and ultimately increasing jobs. As I said earlier, I think that, but we may need one detailed analysis of the state of the entrepreneurship zones in a way that tabledly shows how many of them are in function, how much their fill-in is in percentages, what happened to those who are not in function, and some financial resources for their infrastructure have been invested. Entrepreneurial zones, free zones and entrepreneurial support of the institution should be seen as accelerants of the development of the region and therefore any attempt to improve entrepreneurship infrastructure is necessary and should be supported, which is why the SDSS Representatives Club will support this Proposal for a Law on the improvement of entrepreneurship infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62090	Thank you, too. Mr Emil Daus will present his views on this Law of the IDS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62091	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the HS, for your honor of the Secretary of State with your associate, colleague and colleague. Changes in.../incomprehensible/... to what we've had so far on the first bit may only work cosmetically, but realistically, the law is slightly improved, and any improvement of course should be welcomed. The fact is that details about data inputs are regulated in the Unique Register of Entrepreneurial Infrastructure, which will contribute to a better analysis of the system, but also to strengthen the need to regulate all the details related to entrepreneurship zones as detailed development programmes and strategic enlargement decisions related to it. And that's okay. Free zones move from category of entrepreneurship support institution to subcategories of entrepreneurship zones. In the category of entrepreneurship support institutions, a category of digital innovation centres is added in line with trends. That's understandable and acceptable. And I'm not going to go too far in this debate because every city or municipality that has entrepreneurial zones have their own specific story. We have heard from property-legal problems with the resolution of ownership on some plots, uncoordinated urban plans with market needs that should be much faster, more flexible until the very construction of the necessary infrastructure. On the other hand, the problem of entrepreneurship support institutions, development agencies, entrepreneurship centres, incubators, accelerators, business parks, competence centres etc. My colleague Klaric reminded me of all those peripetias, experiences from local self-government, and I agree in the good part with what he was saying. Maybe here you'd take the opportunity and appeal to try it all together and you'd have the support of our club, and we'd still speed up the process of state land. With the Department of State Property, I know we can't interfere with the state's attorney's office, but somehow it's a lot faster because in the field, the terrain doesn't have time to wait like an office or some act, like a law. We need to be even more progressive, even faster, and for such things you will always have the support of the IDS Club. I'll stick to just a few details where we see room to improve the bill in question between the first and second readings. Part of the answer I got today and on the board, but let me just say it again. In view of the fact that only those entities which have a specific legal status in a specific subordinate or less recognizable position could be included in the single register of entrepreneurship infrastructure, those entrepreneurship support institutions acting under someone's authority, not as separate legal entities, incubators, co-working centres, etc. We think it would be good to get them into the register in some way because under one subject there could be more departments. Today I was told that on the board that they too would somehow be considered, and perhaps if they were seen a little bit in the best way that they might not be left out of some of the European funds or others. Article 27 of the existing law relating to the support system for entrepreneurship support institutions is not very affected by these amendments. And the fact that this article has so far been applied at the declarative level, and so far there have been crumbs available to the entrepreneurial support institutions, mostly in the form of competitions from the European Structural Investment Funds for Entrepreneurship Education. If entrepreneurship is to be further developed at regional level through entrepreneurship support institutions, which should actually act on a non-communicative basis, then it should certainly consider strengthening the support system, what I said earlier in the replica, not only through the European Structural, Investment Funds, but where these are non-commercial institutions to help them with some additional transport from the state budget. Here we propose a supplement of the above mentioned section to introduce this financial support. This is especially for those who carry out activities in the function of strengthening the entrepreneurial environment in the counties where they are located, and I repeat and participate in a non-competitional base. Stronger support for these institutions is a role in the further development of entrepreneurship in the Republic of Croatia. The IDS will support the law in this first reading for two reasons, as a sign of support for every effort to advance entrepreneurial infrastructure and secondly support goes of course and with the hope that the proposed supplements that we have made today will be implemented in the law until the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62092	You, too. Mrs Barbara Antolic Vupra will represent the SDP's Club's views. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62093	... colleagues and colleagues, therefore the founders of entrepreneurship zones in the Republic of Croatia are units of local and regional (regional) self-government and the development of entrepreneurship zones in the Republic of Croatia is a continuous process and co-operation of units of local and regional (regional) self-government with the Government of the Republic of Croatia is of paramount importance for equal development of the Republic of Croatia. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] The law defines different categories of entrepreneurship support institutions, development agencies, local, county and certain activities, entrepreneurship centres, business incubators, business incubators and new technologies, entrepreneurship accelerators, business parks, science parks, competence centres and free zones established to create a quality user-oriented business environment in the Republic and implemented by programmes aimed at developing entrepreneurship. The Law on the promotion of entrepreneurship infrastructure entered into force on 27 July 2013. During the period 2004 to 2013, the State budget through the Ministry of Business Infrastructure co-financed the construction of infrastructures in 347 entrepreneurship zones of 701 million 886 thousand 766 kuna. After 2013, the development of entrepreneurship zones was co-financed by the European Regional Development Fund and 46 infrastructure-building projects in entrepreneurship areas of the total value of 268.6 million kuna were co-financed through a public call for the development of infrastructure of entrepreneurship zones from 2017. This legislative proposal, which had on the table, provides for amendments and additions to provisions relating to the definition and legal status of operators of entrepreneurship infrastructure, or changes the definitions of entrepreneurship zones and entrepreneurship support institutions. Digital innovation centres as subcategories as subcategories of entrepreneurship centres are introduced, and the decision-making and decision-making elements for business infrastructure entities are prescribed. Digital innovation centres provide support to businesses in digital business and digital transformation and development of digital skills, and to the intervention between service providers in the field of new technologies and users. This law also defines the criteria and procedures for handling in the case of the availability of real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia for entrepreneurship infrastructure, or the conditions to be met in order to make real estate donations owned by the Republic of Croatia for entrepreneurship support institutions justified. The founder is the unit of local regional self-government, which has in its programme the purpose of donated real estate, the means of infrastructure equipment provided and the purpose of donated real estate, the verification of all business infrastructure entities in the single register, and the institution itself has at least one employee. It is defined as the notion of a commitment which implies that those provisions of the Donation Treaty be fulfilled within the contractual period of time, and it is prescribed that a period of detention may be extended for a maximum period of one year only when an event of more force has taken place and the situation of the termination of the Donation Treaty. Therefore, the regulation of the status of the single register of entrepreneurship infrastructure as reference databases for entrepreneurship infrastructure entities in the Republic of Croatia through the establishment according to the national qualification of third-level statistical regions of spatial units is prescribed which specific data on entrepreneurship zones and entrepreneurship support institutions are recorded in the JRPI, and the content and elements of the guidance in the single register are defined. At the end of May 2021, 585 entrepreneurship zones were registered in the single register, of which 287 entrepreneurship zones of the local and regional regional self-government units in the function of their founders provided documentation. But the question is, what about the others? At the end of May 2021, 260 entrepreneurship support institutions were registered in a single register, of which 201 entrepreneurship support institutions were provided by their founders with the documentation and data necessary for verification in the single register. The objective still to achieve is to highlight an improved framework relevant for the establishment and operation of business infrastructure entities and entrepreneurship support institutions. The Government expects that amendments and amendments to the laws will lead to an improvement in the area of importance for the business of the enterprise infrastructure entity or to an improved entrepreneurship environment in such a way as to ensure uniformly predictable and consistent implementation of the law. I believe that each entrepreneurship zone should be seen as a separate body, and second reading should be considered that the percentage of the capacity of a larger than or equal to 50% refers only to the specific entrepreneurship zone for which the donation applies. It also raises a question relating to the long-term resolution of real estate requirements owned by the Republic of Croatia, leading to a slowdown of investment on the ground. It should also be taken into account what I specifically pointed out at the occasion and replicas, and what came to the attention of the approval, and that data on the size of the entrepreneurship zone should be taken into account in square meters, rather than the cadastral particle, since part of a particular cadastral particle is sometimes found on the ground, and sometimes part outside the scope of the zone, so the indication of a cadastral particle is not good and accurate for the zone itself. In particular, it would point out how good it is that when a real estate donation occurs in order to build an entrepreneurial zone, the exact time limit in which JLS will have to put it into service. The question arises whether an analysis of the existing Law on the improvement of entrepreneurship infrastructure has been made so far to determine the extent to which the objective of that law has been fulfilled. We heard the exposure that this analysis was made. But from the state budget and from European funding for the construction of infrastructure in entrepreneurship areas, it is also necessary to analyse and give this objective to help entrepreneurs and to increase jobs. It would be good to do a final analysis of the state of business zones in a way that shows how many are in operation, how much is their fill-up in percentages, what happened to those who are not in function, and certain financial resources for their infrastructure have been invested? And finally, most importantly, I join that one especially important is how much and where we have workforce, professional staff to adapt business zones and these labour conditions in certain areas with the infrastructure offered, or new jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62094	You, too. Mr. Damir Habian will speak for himself and for his own sake, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62095	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President, honorary secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Here, I have to admit a little bit first that I'm sorry that we're this small, especially on this left side of the assembly, but obviously we have to get used to it. Here, I will briefly refer to the proposal for this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the improvement of entrepreneurship infrastructure, as already stated by the 2013 Law, which has been amended three times so far, as in previous cases, and these amendments and additions to the law seek to improve the framework of the establishment of business of business entities of entrepreneurship infrastructure or entrepreneurship zones and entrepreneurship support institutions. In the very proposal for this Act, as a follow-up and introductory explanation of the applicants, the importance of developing entrepreneurship zones for a balanced regional development of the Republic of Croatia has been highlighted and data on existing zones, the number of employees in the same areas, as well as the total investments in the zones concerned have been presented. I would briefly refer to this new article in my debate. 29a which actually regulates the question of the availability of real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia for the purpose of establishing and operating entrepreneurship support institutions. Therefore, the provision in question is now much more detailed on the question of the availability of real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia, in particular with regard to the prescribed eligibility criteria for real estate donation. In this regard, Article 4 of that article provides for the cumulative conditions that the local self-government unit must fulfil in order to justify its request for real estate donation. I am sure that the above and described article or item will contribute to better and more serious preparation of the local and regional self-government unit when submitting requests for donation. This will allow the situation to be donated without a deadline, without the preparation of a programme for the detention of donated property for the purpose, i.e. for the purpose or for the purpose of offering real estate, and the local self-government unit is not provided for and provided for in its budget for the implementation of infrastructure equipment activities. This proposal also defines what it means to bring in donated real estate for purposes and to provide documentation to prove that it has been brought in for purposes. The material newspaper in this legislative proposal will certainly allow sometimes questionable donation of real estate to be in these cases in the public and economic interest. In the context of the amendments and additions to this Act, I would also like to mention a concrete example of the development of the infrastructure of entrepreneurial zones in Croatia, so here, several weeks ago in the municipality of Ljubescic in Varazdin County, an entrepreneurial zone was opened as part of the project of the development of the infrastructure of the entrepreneurial zone. The project was aimed at building a municipal and electricity infrastructure, which is worth 7.86 million kuna. By building the infrastructure, entrepreneurs in the area of that business zone are available to have built 5 800 metres of square net surface area of new roads, 1 060 meters of square coastal sewerage and almost 1,000 m of public lighting. Nine contracts for the sale of parcels in that business zone have already been concluded and only four parcels remain unsold. It is important to stress that this project is one of 44 fully agreed projects in the Croatian area called for the development of the infrastructure of entrepreneurial zones, with a total value of 414 million kuna, of which 262.6 million kuna is grants. Finally, the purpose of the development and improvement of entrepreneurship infrastructure is to promote economic growth through planning and timely construction of entrepreneurship infrastructure, which is in the function of a balanced regional development of the Republic of Croatia, faster growth of entrepreneurship and increased investment and employment within the area in which entrepreneurship infrastructure is built. Therefore, support for these amendments and amendments to the law and once again congratulate the Ministry on these amendments and additions to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62096	Thank you, too. Mr Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62097	Dear fellow Habiban. At the beginning of your presentation, you said that you were sorry that the assembly for such an important topic is empty, I am here for the third term, whenever there are very important things for jobs, for the economy, for these topics that are crucial to the development of the state, then the situation in the assembly is like this for you. Whenever there's some kind of circus stuff and somewhere that could be made, let's say the point on, in the media, then the assembly room is full. So when we talk about the economy, the entrepreneurship zones, the development, the jobs, the situation will always be like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62098	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62099	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, almost, if I didn't have anything to add, especially this part of what you said, always as we discuss the topics that I think are really important for the further development of the economy and entrepreneurship, for investment, for new jobs, then somehow we have the impression that it's actually quite soft, while we have debates that are, I would say, also important, but where they have a pulsism sound, and where it's possible to actually use this debate to bring some of the views that these voters find interesting, or they think are interesting, then the assembly is quite full, especially here, I would say, more towards the middle, unfortunately the representatives of theirs here are gone, I mean first of all to our colleagues from the Bridge, but obviously these are topics that are not interesting to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62100	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Nadica Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62101	Thank you very much. There you go, dear fellow Habiban. Why, there are people who know what the entrepreneurship zone means and what this Law is now on the first reading, and we have seen from this proposal, that 585 entrepreneurial zones, of which is only half, and that even here more than 740 inactive entrepreneurs, and therefore, I hope that this will also be taken care of, of course, the registry of these entrepreneurs that really not every municipality can have their own entrepreneurship zone, that yet this little bit must be managed and it counts that these entrepreneurial zones are, in particular here, we in our county have a fall of entrepreneurial zone, or all cities, but they are all filled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62102	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62103	Thank you very much, esteemed representative Budinsky. Well, I agree absolutely with you and this information that you've provided, which we've heard from the applicant's import presentation, but I think that's exactly what this change is going to be. 29a, which now clearly foresees the conditions under which real estate is donated precisely to make it impossible for most or part of these zones to actually be unused or not to have, that they have not been brought into service. I believe that these clearly prescribed, cumulatively prescribed conditions will prevent it and therefore I believe that this proposal and this amendment, in particular this article. 29a. Good and therefore I support him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62104	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Anka Dark-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62105	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, the respected secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. The predecessors before me discussed the empty and full assembly. I kind of think it's hard to be a parliamentary representative of general practice and understand everything. I try to always participate actively in discussions for what I think I know, for what I somehow understand with my knowledge and experience and try to do through this debate somehow contribute to getting a better legal solution. I often do not share some of the laws here on yours and ours, I think the laws should be such that they go in favour of the development of the Republic of Croatia and in favour of the development of all our citizens. So I'm going to start this individual debate from a little bit to a global one. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt The 2nd and 3rd changes and reads and says "a list of all land parcels". I am also on the board, and I repeat, and now, this should read "a list of all cadastrian particles" for the simple reason that mutually with other regulations this would be harmonised. This, I repeat it from the pay phone because you're going to have a phonogram, and then I expect you to answer another reading and answer it for the simple reason that this law will be operational. Once again, nothing started yesterday, it all started a long time ago, and everything is based on entrepreneurship zones on space and land. I participated in the creation of a law in which the law could not right now, and I don't need to quote correctly, but I will tell you, it says about this, when there's a dispute between the state and the JLS over the property of the land then the project can go further, and this court and property will be resolved later, other words can be obtained locational and can be obtained building permit, and the court, then there was in one bill, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, I was involved and it was in the bill's proposal from one other domain, and then until it is resolved, until the applicable permit has been resolved, and that dispute. It's very quickly erased out. But imagine what it looks like when someone comes to you, someone on the side of Croatia, and now read such a provision and says wait a minute, you have several states, wait a minute, you have another problem, another problem. Imagine when you in law have to say that what's on, what's not solved between JLS in terms of ownership, who owns it, is the owner of JLS or is to say so by the central state, that they're solving in some kind of court. There's no progress until we do. I'll do it again, this law is good. This law is correct, but it has a basic problem, and the basic problem is not found in this ministry, nor in this law, the basic problem lies in any other ministry. I have said it several times from this pay phone, and I am saying it today, I have advocated it to be the Ministry of Property because it seemed to me that Croatia will send a message that it finally decides to settle its assets, put it into function and is important. Somebody explain to me, I'm trying to be reasonable, why, which is that some ministry solves the problem of 5 years, 6 years, 7 years. where some input data is even clean, so the geodetics could measure the land once a year, you can check and stack the garland historian several times. So all right, you say here how you manage, what's it gonna be, it's just a question of what's basic? We had some time ago that catastrian measurement program that was a cadastrian measurement for the construction area. If you stop everything on the scale, and you don't spend it all in the garter, it's gonna be a problem again. You who are JLS or were, you know exactly what I'm talking about. So we can even solve the cadastre, but we're the only former members of Yugoslavia who have a separate cadastre and a garland, the others don't have it. While we have one record in the catastro, the other in the garter, while we're doing it parallelly to each other, there's no movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62106	You, too. - Mrs. Crescent. Anamaria Blažević is now in order, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62107	Thank you very much, Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. We will surely all agree here that entrepreneurship plays a special role in all national economies, so according to this and entrepreneurship development is one of the strategic objectives of most economies around the world, of course in the Republic of Croatia. In addition to the development of entrepreneurship, the strategic objective is to develop entrepreneurship infrastructure, given that it is the basis for successful implementation and development of entrepreneurship activities. When a natural person decides on a business venture, he needs all the support he needs, as well as infrastructure within which it will be easier to break into the market and ultimately survive. Quality entrepreneurship infrastructure contributes significantly to the start-up and development of entrepreneurial activities, the growth of the number of entrepreneurs and the number of employees, the improvement of the business results of entrepreneurs and, of course, the strengthening of its competitiveness and is one of the major tools in attracting new investments. The attractiveness of an individual entrepreneurship zone is reflected through its infrastructure equipment, which also refers to energy, municipal, etc. The infrastructure within the zone, and then the availability of a qualified and quality workforce, because without the workforce education for the jobs that are within the zone should be difficult to expect, and in recent times the attractiveness certainly contributes both new technology and digitisation, as well as its development. The Law on the improvement of entrepreneurship infrastructure, which entered into force in 2013 defines the basic issues of the arrangements of the entrepreneurship infrastructure system. We have heard that it has already been changed on three occasions, and all with the aim of improving the legal framework that regulates entrepreneurship infrastructure and evidence is that, as has been demonstrated today's debate, that in fact entrepreneurship infrastructure is developing and therefore all these legal changes that follow the situation on the ground and help to move forward with the demands that bring us a new era, a period of digitisation. Entrepreneurship support institutions are part of entrepreneurship infrastructure, implement a number of support programmes and also aim to represent the importance of research, innovation, and promote technological development in the business sector. That's why I'm gonna look back now. 3. these changes, and I think it is extremely important because it adds a new type and category of entrepreneurship support institution, which is the digital innovation centres defined in this law. The level of digitisation of the EU industry is uneven depending on the sector, depending on the country, the size of the company and the key problem are insufficient knowledge and skills when introducing digital technologies and difficulties in finding finance. According to data found by only 20% of small and medium-sized enterprises, and here it is highly digitised on small and medium-sized enterprises in the EU. This is exactly what digital innovation centres play the most important role. Their task should be to help companies, small and medium-sized enterprises to become more innovative, productive and competitive by using digital technologies, developing smart skills and creating new knowledge. We already have examples of digital innovation centres in Croatia today, it is certainly one of the most recognizable "Pismo" from Sisak-Moslavina County, which was launched in Novska as a specialized incubator for the geyming industry, which by networking with the state, county and city support system, secondary education and informal education of other stakeholders has created one synergy and visibility of the entire project, and I personally hope that in my county and of course in other counties will soon be the one that has been determined for the development of artificial intelligence. I think all digital innovation centres will have to be networked just for specific knowledge. These amendments should also be supported for the sake of the EU Digital Europe programme 2021 to 2027, compliant with that programme to provide additional services through the mentioned digital innovation centres to entrepreneurship, but also to successfully attract funds from EU funds for this purpose. Finally, the better the infrastructure is an individual entrepreneurship zone, the more competitive it is, and it is within a stimulating entrepreneurship environment, and it will certainly be digital innovation centres in the future. Its profitability is growing by increasing the number of entrepreneurs operating in it. Quality entrepreneurship infrastructure in a specific area has a major impact on improving business climate in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62108	You have one replica of a gentleman, O'Mrs. Dragon.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62109	Thank you. Dear colleague Blažević, since I've been to Pakrac several times, and I've seen that your entrepreneurial zone is fully operational, so I'm curious when you started to form entrepreneurship zones in the area of the town of Pakrac? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62110	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62111	Thank you very much. Now, first of all, I have to say that the Pakrac in the Homeland War was torn down, destroyed, and there was no industry and there was already in 1999. It began to form an entrepreneurial zone by establishing our entrepreneurship center. We today have two incubators in the zone, we have in that one zone over 500 people constantly employed there and I have to say that with the construction and the zones and these two incubators, what I have actually said with the help of pre-accession EU funds precisely for the purpose of developing entrepreneurial infrastructure. So we've managed to create new jobs, we've contributed and here's the regional development, and we've kind of become the leader of this little micro and small entrepreneurship in that part of Slavonia where I come from.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62112	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mr. Sinisha Yankee's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62113	Dear Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Well, there's a lot that's been said today about entrepreneurship. As counterpart Klaric said or another colleague, there are not too many representatives and MPs present, which is kind of sad, but here we are. So the Law on the improvement of entrepreneurship infrastructure, the existing law that is being improved by these changes and in some ways introduces a certain order into the very functioning of entrepreneurship zones. What I'd like to say anyway is that it's not easy to form an entrepreneurial zone, so it takes about 10 years. and you are facing all these problems that have already been mentioned here, especially if it is a partial or complete donation of state property, then it is unfortunately going on, as we have heard and I hope that some changes will happen, that it will also speed up these very processes of donation of state property for the needs of entrepreneurship zones. It is good to define here the definition that the deadlines foreseen for the purpose of donated real estate are extended and, as I said, the units of local self-government that form entrepreneurship zones are not easy for them, and for each entrepreneurship zone you need to separate significant financial resources from your own budgets, so here, thanks to the ministry that has so far co-financed through programmes and projects and helped local self-government units form entrepreneurship zones, that they are communal equipment. I hope that in the future programming period there will also be some way of designing programs to help local self-government units form entrepreneurship zones more easily. We spoke here often and repeatedly, everyone repeated, the unit of local self-government. Well, I'm glad someone finally realized that this unit of local self-government is serving something. What I'm saying from this pay phone and constantly, without units of local self-government in a month you'd have a collapse of the functioning of society because without a unit of local self-government there's absolutely nothing, but nothing at all and I can argue that and I can back that up with evidence. So among other things, when we talk about this Law, there is no, I mean no entrepreneurial zone formed in any other way and formed by someone else in the area of the Republic of Croatia down there by that unfortunate unit of local self-government. And I'm glad that this law helps local self-government units and directs them to be able to form these precisely entrepreneurship zones. It's not easy to form an entrepreneurial zone, it's known to fellow mayors, mayors and mayors, and finally, when you start forming an entrepreneurial zone, then you usually work blindly because you don't know who you're going to get, what kind of entrepreneur you're going to be, which is basically his needs, from I don't know, other infrastructures, so I'm not talking about roads, so what are the needs for electricity, for gas and everything else you need. So in a way, we need to look very, very forward in the distance, form, finance, and finally, it happens again that we need to sell it. Of course, with all the support the units of local self-government provide, they release municipal fees on, I don't know, 3 years from the very production process that starts, from co-financed kilowatts of electricity, etc., you are not easily attracted to entrepreneurs in these entrepreneurship areas. Of course, parallelly, we also encounter a problem when you form a private-owned entrepreneurship zone, then the biggest problem is that in some way in these private owners, in that, areas that are formed on private property bring that infrastructure and often you have to use those systems of authority to bring you into the road, to get basic municipal infrastructure. So it's not easy to form entrepreneurship zones and I appeal to the ministry to continue with funding and co-financing programmes in entrepreneurship zones.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62114	Time. Thank you. The replica of Mrs. Crescent. Barbara Antholic Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62115	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, it is not easy to form an entrepreneurial zone on your own in your presentation. It's even harder to fill, so you can tell us from your own experience what you're going to do about digital innovation centres as necessary digital support to those who are already in existing entrepreneurship zones.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62116	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62117	Well, there that exists, where digital innovation centres are formed, of course, from the level of the ministry, I think it's supported anyway and it's going to be supported. What I'm preparing anyway, and you asked me perhaps personally for your local self-government unit, here we are currently in the design phase, in the preparation phase, and we hope that we will be able to pass the app in some of the upcoming future competitions. It's a long way, and unfortunately here in New Marof we're not so lucky to have something significant state property but everything we've formed, we've had to buy from private owners and invest a lot, a lot, in the infrastructure itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62118	- Mrs. Crescent. Nadica Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62119	Your Honor, MP. Here it is, and you yourself said how long the road is and how many units of local self-government have to finance themselves. We're not so lucky to have a lot of state land because we're coming, here we are, from our Varazdin County, and especially ours, my municipality and your neighbors, and I can only say that, here, my municipality will now be the first to carry out a catastrian measurement throughout the county and that's the period that's been going on for eight years. So for 8 years, we've been doing a cadastrian measurement, not to mention how long it takes us to buy all of this, land from private owners, so we can even build an entrepreneurial zone. I think that this bill is somewhat of this, it solves the situation, but everything seems to me to be going a little slow and that certainly already the other ministries, and especially now the EU funds, so that hardly any entrepreneurial zone could make it a quality and that it would function. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62120	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62121	Well, thank you, fellow Nadice. We come from next door, i.e. municipalities and cities, and we know the problem of not having state land in some way, as long as it lasts, but that's one particular advantage when you get a certain state land, so you can form an entrepreneurial zone in that area. Of course, often times and this is not the final solution because you must continue to expand the zone, purchase and right here, I will end up responding to the replica so that it might be or wouldn't be worse to think that entrepreneurship zones are placed of greater interest to the Republic of Croatia and that, as for roads, such as for roads, we are allowed to authorise, that we are also allowed to form business zones to authorise certain areas that are through spatial plans defined as zones.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62122	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62123	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of HS, Your Honor. I will refer in my replica to your opening part of the exhibition in which the opening part of the presentation you have found that for this type of law is a much greater interest in the ruling than the opposition and that there are no objections, unlike the ruling ones who actively participate in this, in the discussion of this Law. I am interested in the basis of which regulations and the basis of which laws, when 8 ruling MPs and MPs are in the assembly and 8 opposition, are based on what are these 8 rulings much more than these 8 oppositions? Because when, exactly, I counted the moment you referred to it at that time as now there were eight ruling MPs and MPs and eight opposers. So there's probably some regulation, some kind of norm, some kind of rule that makes 8 oppositions more than 8, or 8 ruling more than 8 oppositions, so I'd like you to explain it nicely.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62124	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62125	Well, I can only say that listening to debates and interest in general of all MPs on this subject, I can say that it is relatively weak and is not very special. I can only determine, listening to some other debates, then the interest of the MPs, whether the opposition, whether the ruling ones are far greater for some far more irrelevant subjects than this subject, but here, it is my subjective court, as it was, it seems to me the subjective court of fellow Habib when he said it from this pay phone. Well, there are often times when different subjective courts are heard from this pay phone, so I don't see any reason why I wouldn't have the right to such a subjective court, and that, if it hits someone, dear God, anything that speakers here say hits various colleagues and colleagues, How ruling, so opposition, so here, it's democracy, thank God. [[Thank you. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62126	Thank you very much. And the last replicator, Mr. Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62127	Comrade Jenkac, you mentioned a nice detail, without the government, the resolution ministry, here the Parliament that is preparing the legislative framework. The key, or operationally what will happen after making a decision or any law depends on the field, so that city, municipality, even the smallest in the Republic of Croatia, and on the engagement of each of us personally. Therefore, all these laws that we are making, including the one that is crucial for the development of the economy, the entrepreneurial infrastructure, bear one important point, to bring as much legal regulation as possible to that mayor, or the people on the ground who prepare, build and operate. If the legal solutions were the way they were, to limit about 60% within a 20-mile radius of some zone, not to look at their development plans and everything these mayors and mayors, municipal councilmen and their field service are doing, then we're not on the right track, and that's why it's good to always point out that without synergy The ministries and us here in the Parliament [[Thank you, thank you.]] and local self-government, there will be no development. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62128	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62129	Here, I agree with fellow MPs and mayors with you, we are on the ground implementing everything that is voted in this High House, and often it is not easy and simple and it should work on, that the executive authority, the government and the executive government at local level are better placed in the same direction, so they are doing synergy and here, I hope, as I said in my own debate that all those co-financings and all the thinking that the Ministry of Economy currently has will go further in that direction to help us on the ground, especially those of us who have no large surfaces to form zones, and these bad laws that have been and have done damage, thank God that they are gone, and I hope that they will never show up again.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62130	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas, and now we have five minutes break for technical reasons because technicians, video technicians, they're begging us to take a break because of the string, youtube and stuff that they know why it takes five minutes. We'll continue in 18 and 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62131	Dear Representative Ankica Zmajic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62132	Dear Vice President, the respected secretary of state with an associate, colleague and colleague. Here is today a very important law for local and regional (regional) self-government units for economic development, entrepreneurship and employment in our areas. The Law on the improvement of entrepreneurship infrastructure addresses the issue of certain entrepreneurship infrastructures, types and categorisation of entrepreneurship zones and entrepreneurship support institutions, the establishment of the Register of entrepreneurship zones and entrepreneurship support institutions, systems and support, i.e. the pre-conditions and criteria for granting support for improving business activities, entrepreneurship zones and support institutions. Entrepreneurial infrastructure includes entrepreneurship zones and entrepreneurship support institutions. Entrepreneurial zones are defined as infrastructure-based areas of energy communal transport and communication infrastructure. The business zones must be arranged by the spatial plans of the unit of local self-government intended to carry out certain types of entrepreneurship, i.e. economic activities. The basic characteristics of entrepreneurship zones are shared use of infrastructure equipment. Entrepreneurial support institutions focus on implementing programmes for the development of entrepreneurship, especially small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, which are development agencies, entrepreneurship centres, incubators, competence centres and free zones. The aim of investment in entrepreneurship infrastructure is to promote a balanced economy, the development of the Republic of Croatia, the strengthening of small and medium-sized enterprises and the creation of new jobs. These amendments and amendments to the law define the legal status of operators of entrepreneurship infrastructure, modify definitions of entrepreneurship zones and entrepreneurship support institutions, define criteria, the procedure for the availability of properties owned by the Republic of Croatia, regulate the status of a single register of entrepreneurship infrastructure as reference databases of entrepreneurship zones, entrepreneurship support institutions. Two micro-enterprise zones are active in my municipality of Vrpolje. One zone of Wetchil is filled, has about a hundred employees. The second zone is Varište, so far there are ten employees, and the plan is to build another plant that will employ a dozen workers. The development agreement of Slavonia and Baranja and Srijema plans to finance infrastructure in certain business areas, where the business zone of Vrpolje – Varište is also mentioned, so this way I use the opportunity and ask the Resolute Ministry of Regional Development, the EU funds to make public calls available for projects to build municipal infrastructure in business areas, which we are planning by means of a development agreement that is planned, means for the publication of public calls and are not published until today. These public calls should not only be discussed but also provided by the ministry with financial resources to increase investment, employment and economy through the construction project, which is aimed at us in local self-government units as well as even development, regional development of the Republic of Croatia. This law is good and we are further developing economic growth, and this is important to us not only in the units of local self-government, i.e. municipalities, cities, but throughout our beautiful Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62133	We have one replica. Please stay. Dear representative Marina-Opačak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62134	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, speaking of entrepreneurship infrastructures, it is also important to mention the potential of the investment entrepreneurs you have already mentioned, few of them you have touched are not at an envious level. Indeed, land owned by the state should be put into operation as much as possible, but the same way should the state attract entrepreneurs and strengthen them. I believe that we will agree that the entrepreneurial zone should have an impact on the increase in the number of employees, you also mentioned it, and it is actually very important, in fact, that goal, especially with us in Slavonia, where we have great potential, but actually entrepreneurs and foreign investors do not decide to invest and produce in Croatia, and so do those who have recently acted in the Croatian Slavic industrial zones of the gas plant. I'll take this opportunity to appeal to both you and the authorities to consider relief for the entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62135	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62136	Thank you very much. Here's because we're from the same county, and I think you've just listed here this closure of this plant as it was, where it was sewing for cars. Is that what you mean? Well, that means the foreign investor who came and now moved the company from Slavonski Brod to neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the reason is like a cheaper workforce which is a fact. But if we were able to influence something here as our county now, because we're all saying there are little salaries in our country, and then even if we were working for 3,000 kunas, I don't know what they would do, and in neighbouring BiH they probably work for 30,000 kunas, and that means a lot to them. And here, we're going to try in the future that whatever can be done for the development of the economy and the entrepreneurial zones, mainly on our county, we're going to realize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62137	Here's what we've exhausted the debate with. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. And the last item of today's agenda is - Proposal for a Consumer Protection Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 175. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Secretary of State Natasha Mikush-Zigman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62140	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. Here, let me introduce the introduction of a new consumer rights law, which would highlight the main reasons why this new law was approached and, of course, the main newspaper that this law is making. One of the reasons for the adoption of the new Consumer Protection Act was the transposition of the so-called The Omnibus directive, which actually contains four existing consumer directives, which had to be transposed into national legislation. Since, of course, we are aware of the continued development of the digital environment, the digital tools that we use, and therefore the adjustment of the relevant definitions and other provisions in relation to the earlier legal arrangement has been made to include this digital segment in the application of the regulations as well. In this respect, the way in which the written objection is submitted is tailored to the current means of communication, so traders can make it possible for consumers to submit written objections through means of network communication, but only provided that such a means of communication enables time and content of objections so that the content of such an objection cannot be manipulated. Furthermore, there is a lot of talk, of course, about the responsibilities of Internet intermediaries, i.e. the platform through which consumers increasingly buy goods and services, and this segment has been largely unregulated so far. The platform must now make clear whether the consumer makes a consumer contract with the trader or other contract, for example between two natural persons and indicates that if the seller is not a trader within the meaning of the Consumer Protection Act, then the consumer does not have adequate protection provided by consumer legislation. Therefore, it is necessary to adequately inform the consumer. As regards the specific types of sales, traders will be obliged to stress the reduced price applied during the period of the specific sales form and the lowest price applied to the same product during the 30-day period prior to the implementation of such a specific form of sales. The reason for this amendment is to restrict the ability to manipulate prices by the traders themselves before carrying out such special forms of sales. We further expanded the so-called. blacklist, circumstances that represent unfair business practice. This adds, for example, to the black list a ban on the resale of tickets for events if the trader obtained them using automated means because he could in fact bypass the number of tickets that one person could buy. It is also an obligation to state that the product reviews whether consumers have actually used or bought the product must therefore be indicated when selling such products and the prohibition to submit false consumer reviews or recommendations is also prescribed. We have also used the option provided for by the Omnibus Directive for Member States, and we have made it closer to regulating unsolicited visits to the consumer's home by traders, which we believe is very important in particular for elderly people to protect them from aggressive commercial, or business practices. Also certain practices of non-regulated traders, which have been violated by consumer rights, for example in the case of dual-quality goods, are now under certain conditions considered unfair business practice, and yet all in order to ensure a higher level of consumer protection when buying goods and services. Furthermore, the amendment also resulting from the Omnibus Directive's transposition of effective and dissuasive fines to those traders responsible for widespread infringements of consumer collective interests. Therefore, these are those injuries involving consumers from at least two Member States or when injury occurs with the Union dimension, meaning in at least two thirds of the EU Member States. And since there are extremely serious violations of consumer rights affecting a large number of citizens, sanctions are therefore prescribed in a way that the amount of fines for such infringements must be at least 4% of the annual turnover of the trader. In addition to taking over the provisions of the Omnibus Directive when drawing up this new Consumer Protection Act, we have also been guided by the need for modernisation and further regulation of certain provisions for the reason that, based on experience from the current application of the Consumer Protection Act. For example, we have expanded the definition of written objection in such a way that the definition includes situations where the consumer contract is not concluded and the consumer is dissatisfied with the business of the trader. For example, in cases of complaints against the trader's unfair or aggressive business practice. It is further added to the trader's obligation to make clear when responding to the written complaint on the basis of the consumer complaint, which will in fact eliminate the possibility of providing generic responses by traders with whom, if I may say so, buys time and then does not refer to a specific complaint from the consumer. When we talk about public services, we also add to the list of public services this proposal also adds a parking service on organised public areas and in public garages, all in order to increase the effectiveness of the resolution of objections in the area in question. Furthermore, with regard to compliance with the provisions of the Mandatory Relations Act, the deadline of six months per year within which the trader carries the burden of evidence for the existence of a material flaw, which, of course, I said, is to comply with the amendments to the Law on Mandatory Relations. In addition, a further clarification of the provision relating to the issue of the settlement of the costs of skillry is made necessary to determine whether there is a material shortage on the goods. For this reason, it is now said that the trader exclusively predominates the costs of art rather than always carrying them. It should be pointed out that this amendment does not change the existing regulation of that problem but only explains the legal possibility of the trader that if the results of such an artisan show that the material defect did not exist, it has caused him certain costs that he has the right to seek compensation for damages in the litigation process. So this is what we are trying to actually create a balance in terms of the rights of traders and consumers. This proposal for a law also regulates the area guaranteeing compliance with consumer rights, i.e. the implementation of this Act itself, and therefore, in consultation with the competent authorities, more detailed provisions relating to the conduct of inspection controls, and precisely with a desire to ensure faster, more transparent and efficient handling of enforcement bodies or inspectorates and other bodies. The Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency as a supervisory officer related to the treatment of traders granted by HANFA for work. And there is also an agricultural inspection to carry out food quality controls. In addition, it is specified which specific data and documentation must be included in the consumer’s presentation in order for the inspection body to act on the same basis, but the possibility of adding, or giving an additional deadline for the addition of such a consumer’s representation is given. When we talk about traders, there is a obligation to declare to the trader the consumer's representation of the inspector and the deadlines in which the trader is bound, so to declare to the competent inspection and sanctions for the case d the trader does not meet the request of the competent inspector within that time limit. Additional powers of competent inspectors are also prescribed to ensure more effective implementation, for example, of the possibility of carrying out surveillance of purchases with a secret identity. Then the possibility of issuing a temporary measure relating to the removal of content or restrictions on the Internet interface, i.e. access to the Internet interface. In particular, situations are prescribed where the competent inspector will not file a motion or issue an infringement order, i.e. situations where he will do the same without delay, because it is a serious type of offence, i.e. a breach of consumer rights. Here are the main changes we've proposed to this law. As you can see from the above, we therefore want to ensure a comprehensive and effective legal framework in which we will achieve a higher level of consumer legal certainty but also a balance compared to the rights of traders, which should naturally contribute to better functioning of the internal market and result in a higher level of confidence in the purchase of goods and services both in Croatia and cross-border. Dear MPs and MPs, we suggest that this bill be supported by the Croatian Parliament in its first reading and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62141	Here's a few replicas. The first is Honored Representative Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62142	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Secretary of State, I'm sorry that today is not the biggest Croatian export brand for you, Mr. Teca. What I'm going to ask you is how you interpret the fact that the Croatian consumer is at the very bottom of the Member States by knowing its consumer rights and how you think this problem will be removed by this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62143	Thank you very much, Mr. Kujundzic, for your question. When we say that we are bad at consumer rights, here I will actually look at statistics which, therefore, is the latest statistics for 2021 towards research at EU level and I cannot agree, so in all segments we really stand bad. For example, trust, so in traders and service providers is actually at 75% level according to this research. Trust in buying online is slightly lower than 50%. What you are right certainly is that consumers do not know enough about their rights and that is exactly the segment in which we really need to intensify our activities and we will do so through the implementation of the consumer protection programme for the period from 2021 to 2024. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62144	The next replica is the respected representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62145	Thank you very much. I have to say that there are a lot of good things in this extensive law, so here's what you've given yourself, and we'll see what extras we're going to give. It's not perfect, of course. I would a little touch on the questions of misleading business practice when you have situations to advertise different products specifically medicines that will miraculously cure diabetes, obesity, etc. This uses the identities of some colleagues, such as doctors or celebrities, and advertisers don't even have to come from Croatia or hide their identity. They come from God and ask which IP addresses and you're actually having a hard time with him. So that's where article 146 states how possible solutions are to remove content, so this, and that. But what do I think it's going to look like in practice? Who's gonna turn him in? Who's going to punish him? The easiest thing to do is to remove the contents, but the damage has already been done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62146	Thank you very much. Of course, this is a very relevant issue, given that an increasing number of consumers are just buying using internet platforms. This law is just strengthening the obligation of these platforms to point out clearly with whom the consumer concludes his consumer contract, or from whom he buys, which is therefore a source of service or goods he purchases. And, of course, through inspection bodies, it should be properly sanctioned and sanctioned. Of course you're right when you say that there's a flow of time where he can buy goods and then he has to seek his right in another way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62147	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62148	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, this law introduces another newspaper by the provision of Article 133, which is an obligation for units of local self-government to have to provide space for the conduct of consumer consultation and also for infringements if they, or sanctions, do not do so. We have 556 units of local self-government. In this law that was before, we were actually discussing their willingness to invest and build entrepreneurship zones at all. We know that there have been some efforts to do so in large cities such as Zagreb, Rijeka. I'm interested in how you think and what dynamics it is possible and it won't be, and that and you and I both know there won't be a possible judgment. But that it might refer to large cities that we have over 30,000 inhabitants or something else. Because if this provision remains, I'm afraid it won't be possible to implement it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62149	Thank you very much, Mr. Dark-Taritash, for your question. As far as local administration units are concerned, of course, very practice is diverse. So some work well with consumer protection associations and other associations. While this obligation is not fulfilled in others, even though it exists already in the current law, it is not introduced by this new regulation. But what we've put here is exactly those criminal sanctions to encourage units to act that way. For our part, we are working on institutional support programmes for consumer protection associations, and we expect that there will be a synergy on the part of local units that will be able to give way to spaces and through financial means we are trying to motivate, therefore, through the institutional support of the association itself to work on protecting consumer rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62150	The next replica of the respected representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62151	Thank you. In spite of the good news introduced by this law, I believe that one of the shortcomings is that it has failed to regulate some aspects of the action of the Agency for the collection of claims against citizens who are users of services, so the consumers of certain services are, in particular, those services that are not part of it, but covered by the laws governing the issue of credit, consumer lending already include example in telecommunications, etc. Therefore, one of the comments in the e-consultation was that it was also minimally regulated that the claim collection agencies must also be covered by a ban on calling or communication when someone is in the ‘Don’t Call’ register and that in general such a way is regulated. I can see that this is not accepted, so please explain why the Agency's business of charging claims to consumers is not covered in one way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62152	Thank you very much, Mrs. Bencic. On the one hand, I think it was also highlighted in this morning's debate on the Agency for the collection of claims that their responsibility, i.e. the regulation of their work, will be resolved by a new legal act at EU level very likely by a directive. And when we talk about, therefore, reminding the debtors by the Agency of the collection of claims to settle their debt debtor and the believer are actually, they must negotiate a ban on such access if, in order for such a provision to be applied. Because if it is not agreed, then we cannot solve the ban through this consumer regulation in such a way. Here's what we really couldn't do. We are aware, therefore, of the proposal from the public consultation, but that was not applicable in this case.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62153	The next replica of the esteemed representative Barbara Antolic Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62154	Your Honors, Madam Secretary, I'd like to ask you about the waste management. It is also left out, so the rights that have arisen from the disposal of waste, which should be more clearly defined, are not more clearly stated. However, my replica would refer to sanctions that are prescribed, which are simply too large to be imposed under the Code of Breaking, so as to put in an unequal position craftsmen and large companies where you can close some smaller crafts by breaking the provisions of the minority, while large trade chains can pass very cheaply.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62155	Thank you very much for asking. So the infringements are defined and must always be in a way to deter them from committing the offence, so in that sense and in accordance with the provisions of the Criminal Law, as well as the Omnibus Directive, which has prescribed for certain types of infringements, so the percentage of the annual incomes that can be imposed as sanctions we actually went to the regulation of criminal sanctions under this law. However, what I would like to remind you is that the State Inspectorate applies the principle of opportunity in its conduct, means that it first declares a warning, and if no correction is made and does not act, then it goes to the imposition of the criminal penalty itself in terms of the suit and the fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62156	And the last replica, the respected representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62157	Respected State Secretary, Honored Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary with an associate. I have two things bothering you here, so please explain them to me, sort of get close. First of all, there are many good things in the law and what is better and I am always ready to commend everything that has been happening to the elderly. So now it's going to be something clearer. But here I'm confused by two things. The National Consumer Protection Programme is our biggest item. It's kind of let's say Magna Carta. And now what's going on? So it is prescribed that the Croatian Parliament is excluded from this story rather than going all the way to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So, it scares me of that. And another story. Therefore, for technical reasons and opportunity, reporting obligations on the implementation of the national programme shall be placed in the power of the ministry. So, if I understand correctly, the ministry will submit the report to itself. So that's a little bit dangerous for me for democracy, so if you can make that clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62158	Thank you very much for your question. Well, I wouldn't exactly say it's dangerous for democracy. We are in line with this law and with the type of acts passed under the law of the Strategic Planning Act, which provides that long-term acts adopted for a period of 10 years are submitted to the Croatian Assembly for adoption, while the programmes which is actually this act are actually adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry is preparing a report on the implementation of the national programme and it is actually submitting it to adoption, that is, reporting on the implementation of the same Government of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62159	Thank you to the secretary of state. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? The Legislative Committee? The Economic Committee? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. The first is the registered Club of Representatives of MOST, respected representative Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62160	Thank you, Mr. Sanader, the respected secretary of state, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. According to EUROSTAT, the Republic of Croatia is the second poorest member of what the birds on the branch already know. The recent collection of food products and the average salary of a Croatian consumer that cannot be covered by even 60% of the monthly consumer basket per consumption index has struck us last among the Member States. A Harmonised consumer price index in June in the EU shows that life in Croatia is more expensive by 2.2% compared to the month before. Otherwise, a harmonised consumer price index is an economic indicator that measures the change in the level of prices of goods and services they supply during the course of time, used by them or ultimately paid by households. It is therefore perfectly logical to ask an ironic question at the beginning of this exhibition whether we need this law that protects consumers in a country where wage power is extremely low. It is true that this proposal comes on the carpet because of the obligation to implement its own European directives, and one smaller one I would dare say is changing the previous law in part but only in certain segments. And yes, I will commend what is good. But I'll look back on everything that's not good. In fact, the directives as such are quite clear, but what remains unclear is the reason why a large number of objections to e-consultation have not been accepted. The answer is why they are not accepted, and we know that who read them the vast majority of them eventually comes from various consumer associations, and we judge for ourselves why they are not accepted. The novelty particularly highlighted in this proposal in relation to the current Consumer Protection Act is, in fact, the erasure of Article 132a. Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 (OJ L 348, 30.12.2013, p. 1). And just before I asked you in the replica, I'll tell you that again. So, we are removing from one side the passing of expert exams to repeat consumer consultation, information and education, and you have confirmed to me that the Croats are at the very bottom of the EU member states to know the rights of consumers. While some European members are strengthening consumer protection and are aware of real problems, for example, Germany, which has the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Consumer Protection, Croatia has consciously or unconsciously not so long ago amaterated or I say volunteered four, let's call them the Consumer Advisory Centre in the Republic of Croatia, which has been financed to the greatest extent from the budget of the Ministry of Economy. These four advisory professional centres all over the year know how many complaints have been received? More than 20,000, and besides receiving them often, with the advisory body weaker written citizens actually wrote complaints, advertising and all that was needed as such. The mentioned consumer advisory centres in the context of funding and space have been transferred to local administration and self-government units, because we know that in practice this means total amateurism, which most often comes down to several enthusiasts who are eager and willing to help within their time and share their knowledge with those who do not know and who needs it as such. Thus, the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development has largely removed funding from its budget from such centres, but has placed a European consumer centre in its wing which is one of the 30 European consumer centres. You can contact him if you went to the Ministry of Economy only by e-mail. Now, I'm gonna be plastic and I'm gonna ask you what's gonna happen when Grandma Mara buys a knee massager and he stops working, and it's informationally illiterate? We'd say we could blow into a hollow stick. The standard of living in Croatia is 56% weaker than in Germany. According to EUROSTAT, the richest member knows that with 31% of spending is above the EU average. Of course it's about Luxembourg. Let's cut it short. When you have money and buy, you can choose a better quality than a better quality, then surely protecting consumers would make good sense. The Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development has learned the truth of the cowardly life and the paying power of consumers in Croatia. It is aware that, to the greatest extent prior to any purchase, the price is viewed preferably by some kind of ring pay, and in the meantime, the monthly cost of everything else we need for life is calculated briefly in the head, then bought. So for this reason, a free phone opened up and you should wait for someone to call you and give you advice if it comes to products from Croatia. And I would not even like to skip here the famous National Consumer Protection Programme for the period 2017 to 2020, which sets out specific objectives, in particular, by apostrophe of objective number two where I clearly quote: "Consumption for consumers of the instruments of rapid settlement of complaints and disputes which were also dead letters on paper". And I'm not saying it's the two of you. It is obvious that this National Strategy has failed and a new strategy has been adopted, and this bill will be adopted in a very different way in the future. The parliament will be eliminated, the National Strategy will be brought by the Government, and our export brand will report to itself. And I'll be done. What we certainly have left behind after the vote of such a bill is that consumers have so far made it extremely difficult to return their money or the replacement device if they bought a product with a material deficiency. The legislator currently prescribes that, in the event of a material deficiency, the buyer has the right to choose between the removal of the shortage or the replacement of the goods, and the right to return the money is only realised if the trader has failed to remove or deliver a replacement device that is in practice about 45 days. The problem that will remain is that for consumers in some countries, as well as in Croatia, the problem of transporting devices to a service that is most often or in one major city, and I hope in the future and I am afraid in another country as well. And as long as this is all about proving the goods with a mistake, around a variety of paperwork for the consumer will quickly solve the matter in a way that goes and buys a new device back to the wars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62161	Next debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CENTR and GLAS, respected representative Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62162	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Parliament, the respected secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Sometimes you have that call you can't resist, so I'm gonna start my argument with that because I can't resist. We had a debate before this debate about entrepreneurship zones and ruling as whoever was coming out for this pay phone said here you see the opposition there is no one there, they're just interested in those topics of some other kind, they're not interested in these real topics, look at how many of us there are, and how many of them are there to make it look like there are 8 ruling more than 8 oppositions. So when we come to the subject of consumer protection and you see the ratio of strength in this assembly, then we begin in vain. Because that would allow us to conclude that the ruling consumer protection is not at all interested and that here we will have one law, and in reality we are not interested in it. If I were bad, I'd say so. But come on, I'll go back to the subject of this law and what this law regulates. Consumer protection is extremely important. This subject of consumer protection should be developed, investment should be made. Let's remember all those pictures we've had a chance to see so far. Remember the analysis that has shown that Croatians in Croatia are buying the product that this product is worse quality than in other EU member states. So remember from detergents to baby food to a number of other things we had. Recently I saw one of our commercial televisions in those extra programs decided to scale the products. And then the weighing products on which it was declared that in something plastic you had 500 grams of something proved to be tolerated the difference if I wasn't mistaken 10% was so declared in that, and then it was shown that these differences were in some of course going in favor of consumers because there was something more, but not in some. So, my colleague Maric here said the same thing in the replica about all the drugs that bomb and who say you're going to drink the medicine now and you're going to be, you won't have diabetes in about a week, and about that, we don't have to talk about losing weight in two weeks. Everyone would be thin and everyone would lose weight in two weeks, because here's the magic wand. It's all lurking at us. It preys on those people who are better equipped in this whole hall and lurks on our fellow citizens of older age who actually fall into the nymphs of all possible nymphs or I don't know who's lurking at them with those hot commercials. Consumer protection is also important for this reason. It's important, first of all, to talk about it, second of all, that there are methods to protect it. And third, those people have someone to talk to. I can tell a story that is convenient to me, so I decide after a number of years to go for the previous electrical consent and order further to my distribution centre of Elektra Zagreb. I'm not going in there in line, but I'll do it all neatly. I recommend that I don't have an e-mail or anything. And after about three weeks, I kind of feel like I should know where my object is, because I want to connect a property that's not connected to the power grid to the power grid. So, that classic service they're supposed to be offering me. Then I'm going to send an email first, then I get that automatic response to that email. Then it's been a week, and now I decide, come on, I'm gonna go make a phone call. It's kind of like this, that was very polite. First, there's a handsome young voice answering 25 you're okay to answer and get an answer and I get an answer that I need to send an email. Don't be lazy, there's me sending the email again and I'm getting an automatic answer again that my email was received. Now me, so it's not about my head if I'm gonna be connected in 10 days or if I'm gonna be connected in 10 days at one point I'm gonna be connected to the power grid. But imagine who that was about? Imagine who has some business investment behind it, something he wants to invest. He's fine when we don't have to knock on every door, and I don't think we all need to get into some lines together, and it's good to feel like we can handle everything through emails like this. Well, that's what we're getting at. But there's more, I went, I was just curious about what this law says, and it says in this law that it's a public service, that this public service is given by a body in charge of distribution and that it's settled in accordance with a special regulation. The special regulation we adopted on Friday says that the distribution of electricity in the Republic of Croatia is the only HEP distribution area and will deal with it for the next 50 years. So even if I wanted to have someone else call me, I can't answer it. So these are your real stories. It's a real story for you that one consumer goes to. On several occasions when I was talking to this pay phone about some other cases I've always talked about, there are people, so you have someone who's doing better with e-mails and everything else. But those who are the most sensitive are our fellow citizens of the elderly. You can't expect them to go anywhere by themselves and knock on the door. And I have a feeling, and I really don't want you to get a picture of me experiencing all those merchants like in those old stories of those evil ones lurking around to sell something to someone. I somehow always feel that people are doing their job responsibly and that responsiblely their work will be done and that it is not for anyone, that they are not going with the intention of cheating on someone, but is intended to sell something anyway and show their product why it is better than another product. What would be extremely important would be important if the possibility of a complaint were indeed available, the possibility of a complaint would be available. I think that one of the ways that this provision of Article 133 said is that it is, that it is an obligation, that the units of local self-government provide space for doing these jobs. It's been tried and there's been an opportunity for some information points to be obtained and I think we should work on it. In fact, it should work to make it possible for someone to object, to have the possibility of someone complaining to be available to everyone. But what's important is that it's spot-and-response. I may share with you, but I wonder how long this hep saga of mine will last. It's been going on for a while now. I just want to know what stage my class is in, so I haven't gotten to it yet, but I'm just curious about how that saga is going to last. I'm always freaking out here. I'm kind of imagining that I know something about it, and I'm imagining that I'm putting up with the demands and everything right. But good. I haven't been able to ask the secretary of state, so I'm going to use this time. The law enters into force on 28 May 2022. I haven't read why it's May 28th. You probably have some reason for that, so there might be a chance if you have a final answer to that. I assume he's connected to certain directives. All right, all right. I missed something, so I'm allowed to miss something and then ask something and get an answer. What is interesting and I want to point out one more fact now, which is this public collection service, i.e. public parking service, which is added to the list of public services on public surfaces. That'll be interesting to see. Since I am also registered for individual debate, I will leave two topics for individual discussion. One topic is a unilateral termination of the contract, so I'm going to have something and a question and a dilemma. And another topic that I am particularly interested in, which is the collection of municipal waste and the way it is defined and what will be in the context of some other judgments of the Constitutional Court and others. This law that I immediately, to conclude, is a step. Therefore, as soon as you take some step in that step, you should also support these discussions and debates and somehow understand in the sense that we are all better together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62163	Next debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected representative Zarko Tušek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62164	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, respected state secretaries with a co-worker. Here is also on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club a few words about the above-mentioned Consumer Protection Law, with some opening reference to the fact that I am not now going to this nomotechnical data on the law itself, that I am glad to see such a contentious debate by most colleagues who are present here at least as they were said there are no large number. The same debate was held at a meeting of the Committee on Economy where a number of constructive remarks and proposals were contained in the report on this proposal for a law that I stress is in the first reading. So between the first and second readings, it is certain that additional harmonisations can be achieved around this law and further increase its quality and its value, and for which you have all generally estimated to be a step away from what we have so far. But let me, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community's Club, you won't mind me repeating some of the key acts of this law that we believe are worth mentioning, which are a quality step in the context of what we've had so far, with the emphasis that it is still a complete text, a new text of the Consumer Protection Law, which is certainly one more practical solution than that we went to some changes and additions. As the State Secretary has said, this law prescribes appropriate proportionate and effective sanctions for traders responsible for the widespread views or extended views with a Union dimension. It has also been pointed out at a meeting of the Committee on Economy on this subject that infringements, as already said, have increased five times, and that the maximum has been defined for all types of non-distribution offences in view of the type and severity of the infringements. However, the level of penalties is prescribed by the Directive and they must indeed be effective with the appropriate effect. The directive itself states that sanctions will be imposed in view of the annual turnover of a trader where the maximum penalty imposed by the Member States must be at least 4% of the annual turnover of the trader. Here it is also necessary to stress, important to stress the practice of our State Inspectorate, especially when we address the business community that it almost always or as a rule first utters a warning, and only in the event that no punishment is imposed. Furthermore, the existing normative framework is harmonised with the digital dimension of contract conclusion, thus improving consumer protection in the digital environment. Therefore, it must be made clear whether the consumer makes a consumer contract with the trader or any other contract when buying. A more detailed demand for transparency of information when buying via the Internet through Internet markets is required, i.e. The responsibility of Internet intermediaries or platforms is strengthened. Given the time in which we live and current means of communication, it is prescribed that traders are entitled to allow the consumer to submit written objections and through means of network communication, which is one step in accordance with the time in which we live. It means mail or even chat if there is a possibility of saving time and content of the objection. Additional situations are prescribed which, apart from those already regulated, constitute unfair business practice under certain circumstances, e.g. dual product quality. It is precisely for the purpose of establishing a dual quality in the conduct of surveillance that will include a agricultural inspection in addition to the market. What is also repeatedly highlighted today as a good step and a good newspaper, that this law somehow protects our older population and vulnerable groups, i.e. to add to the black list of unfair business practices unrequested visits to the consumer's home. Practice has shown, however, that such sales which can be quite aggressive now do not condemn anyone’s activity, nobody’s business and profession in trade but may be in some way too aggressive and manipulative and may in some way have a negative impact on making a business decision or buying especially in the context of those people who are older and who may not be sufficiently informed. The newspaper again, which goes in favour of the traders themselves, refers to the carrying of the costs of art, which is also said. Therefore, it is prescribed that the trader predominates the costs of skill rather than always bear them, and that he is entitled to compensation for paid advances unless there is a material shortage on the goods. Also, one of the information presented here today in the law itself, which has been troubled by my colleague Mrak-Taritash, seems to be important to the units of local self-government, is the obligation to provide space for consumer counseling, and an infringement provision in accordance with which they can be sanctioned if they do not meet the same and there is definitely a need to see what is the optimal number of such positions in order to have transparency in communication and the possibility that as much as possible of our citizens access to their consumer information about their consumer rights, counselling on their consumer rights, without being over-extensive or possibly incurable in the context of the organisation of our local (regional) self-government. There's a summary and a conclusion. This proposal provides the consumer with the freedom to choose products and services in the open European market, the right to safe products and services, the right to accurate, true information on product content and quality, the right to clear, transparent contractual provisions, the right to protection against unfairly misleading and aggressive business practices, and the possibility of effective resolution of domestic, cross-border complaints and disputes. Of course, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support this bill in the first reading. And maybe another here's some good information. There is also a central consumer portal available on the network pages of the ministry, which provides a one-stop shop for all consumer topics and currentities. So with that piece of personal information, maybe we can start at that point. I thank you all for your attention, and so thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62165	Next is the debate on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, Honored Representative Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62166	Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Three groups of rights in today's societies are of paramount importance in their protection. The rights of those who live from their work to honest work and what comes from the labour rights that the unions care about, which political parties worry about. One of the most likely rights of modern man. The second is the right to a healthy sustainable and sustainable environment. This right was in the interest of the green parties today almost every party, some more, some less. But they have it all if not in the center then in the parts of their program. And the third right is consumer rights. These are the three most massive and relevant rights if we are not talking about fundamental freedoms and human rights and national minorities or all other minorities. Today we are discussing amendments to the Consumer Protection Act under the 2019 European Directive. 21/61 which enriches, upgrades and extends the scope of consumer rights, provides for sanctions and provides for control mechanisms or mechanisms for supervision and control. It's not a little bit. But what is important is to point out when it comes to information and awareness why consumer rights are important. Well, because it's about the wallet. Badava struggled for the worker to have a higher salary, that the pensioner had a higher pension, if someone would take it away from him. I won't say steal, but against the law or deceitful use of an unquality product, a wrongly declared product or a price that doesn't match what it should be. And that's why it's important that our citizens have full awareness of it and that's why it's important that we and our citizens have full awareness of it. And someone is already talking about it not only with citizens, but also with us here has no awareness of how important this is. It's important to the CNB, but it's very important to this. Because we are a small country with underdeveloped institutions, with weakened scientific potential, supervisory and control mechanisms, and importers and traders far more powerful than our state institutions and people who are used to behavior that is not in line with constitutional and legal patriotism. It's easy to put your hand on your heart or I don't know where else, but sticking to the letter of the law of God is a lot harder for me. Don't mind my colleagues respecting anyone who in one way or another manifested a patriotic or patriotic feeling. But when we talk about legality, it's of enormous importance. So there's a whole series of things that change around here. In particular, those covering the digital context, the online form of trade or the relationship between consumers and traders, the way prices are highlighted, especially the prices that relate to the State Secretary here already spoke for the sale by a downsizing or other special forms of trade. I find it extremely important to introduce a black list of unfair business practices and gray circumstances to define unfair business practices. And, of course, setting fines for traders who go up to 4%, at least up to 4% of the annual traffic of traders. Now, as a one-sided regulator and as a supervisor, the head of surveillance for those who have been granted work from the same organization, from the same agency and, of course, agricultural inspection, are they sufficient? Do we have a strong enough control and control mechanism for both the agency and the agricultural inspection? That's what we need to ask ourselves, and how do we strengthen it? Legal provisions are good, but how to make a state through its agency and through inspection do business according to the law is a serious issue. And here with this right and other rights. A few specific things concerning certain provisions. I'm afraid you'll correct me if it's different. We at the SDSS Club believe that the relationship between the Law on Mandatory Relations and the Consumer Protection Act should give a clearer indication of which law in which case has priority. The provision of Article 3(1) states that, in the case of a conflict between the Consumer Protection Act and the laws governing certain administrative areas, provisions of those administrative areas are supposed to apply between consumers and traders. The question arises whether mandatory relations, relationships in which entities enter into matters, practices and assets, actions and assets may be subject to the notion of an administrative area. Namely, the administrative area is part of administrative law, i.e. public-legal bodies, ministries, state-run administrative organisations, local self-government units, etc. and this is further complicated by the provision of Article 3(2) which states that the Law on Mandatory Relations will apply if this law is not otherwise set out in which it could be read as an advantage to the provisions of the Consumer Protection Act. The name of the law results in consumer protection and should not allow the Consumer Protection Act to reduce the rights of consumers under the Law on Mandatory Relations. The same applies to other laws, for example, in the area of insurance. We therefore suggest that you consider our view of things to make it clear to the second reading that the provisions of that law that are more favourable to the consumer, and which is the fact, the intensity of the applicant, will apply. Article 37 of misleading practice, there are many, several pages of this Law are dedicated to it and are listed. It remains unclear whether it is a list of examples or whether it is a closed set of misleading practices. If it's closed, what if there's another recent case? If the closed set is not wise to open the assembly to possible other forms that the legislator, i.e. competent authorities, would prescribe and identify and thus create a legislator basis for tomorrow's addition and improvement of the law. And I'll end up with a question of consumer rights organisations. There have also been comments in the debate, which is to create alliances of consumer organisations and to set the criteria of representativeness as with the unions. You've partially accepted it. It would be good to consider taking this seriously as a means of additional control with state institutions by civil institutions. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62167	The next debate is on behalf of SDP's representative, Martina Vlasic Iljkic, on behalf of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62168	Respected State Secretary with an associate, respected fellow MPs and fellow MPs. We have before us a proposal for a new Consumer Protection Act. This is about amendments stemming from several European directives voted in the previous European Parliament's meeting. It is good that our consumers can welcome positive changes from even the EU if our government is not already making efforts to protect citizens. Because as we see all those provisions that go directly to the benefit of consumers, they are actually the result of the application, i.e. the implementation of the Directive. Member States are required to adopt and publish, by 28 November 2021, the measures necessary to comply with the Directive, which apply from 28 May 2022, and as we see we are re-entering the deadlines. One of the most important changes for our citizens is certainly to regulate the dual quality of EU products in the form of unfair business practices. This regulation was significantly assisted by the research carried out in Croatia conducted by Croatian Europarliamentary Biljana Borzana and the Croatian Food Agency, which showed that products on our market are seemingly identical to those on the market of other EU members are actually poorer quality and less expensive which is not in line with the purchasing power of citizens given the difference in standard of life. As it was a significant survey, sampling was carried out in a professional way, and the analyses were entrusted to Croatian accredited laboratories while the results and joint results brought the working group to the agency, the Croatian Food Agency. We have had relevant research as a basis for legal changes in 2017 and so far we have waited for the directive to prescribe what we already know, which we have feedback from any of the professional services as stated and any of the citizens. In particular, we all already know of the long-standing experience of citizens with manipulations in the way prices are highlighted during seasonal reductions or difficulties in making objections, i.e. getting answers to complaints. It's common knowledge. The study showed that only 4 out of 26 products tested, so 15% were found no difference in quality or price. 54% of products showed a difference in quality, while more than 60% of products were more expensive at the time of purchase on the Croatian market. Although some Member States have measures to ensure the quality of products in the Republic of Croatia, citizens are left to the mercy of large market players. Our government has never done anything and every solution for consumers must come from a European level. However, even what comes from the European level must be implemented, and our inspection bodies are in charge of implementation. The European Commission is working intensively to prepare national authorities to better implement this law and lead to the real equality of our citizens on the EU market. But to what extent are Croatian bodies involved in these consultations? Will this law also remain a dead letter on paper, where our question is, but also a question raised in a series of comments on the law. In a country where the population grows older than 65 years, 21%, in which consumer consciousness is weak, it is very important to protect the most vulnerable. Infrequently, aggressive sales of people with disabilities are the victims of people deprived of their business skills who could not make certain contracts, but are represented by custodians. The traders are often not even familiar with the business ability solution institute, and in this part it is necessary to highlight their position in society and the protection they need to have with persons deprived of their business skills. That is why we need more than the EU provisions on the conclusion of a long-distance contract and the conclusion of a contract on the domestic threshold. In fact, so far, there has been a way that on any commercial passenger he could have unannouncedly entered the house of a pensioner or even a minor at the door and aggressively marketed his product. After that, in the best case scenario, long-term battles with the trader would be fought to return the service or product sold. In most cases, people simply reconciled with the fact that they were being lured, and the German woman they were looking for protection from. In addition, the Ombudsman’s staff report on the work for 2020, according to which 88 complaints were received by dissatisfied consumers, under which the Ombudsman’s staff was not authorised to act on complaints against the work of companies, but in its work it provided general legal information or sent complaints to other competent authorities. However, this shows that consumers do not have information to address and are not sufficiently educated about their rights. It is important in every element of the implementation of this law to raise citizens' awareness of their rights, and the ministry is obliged to organise campaigns to raise awareness and knowledge of consumer protection. I must point out that as we have heard here before in the debates, according to EU data, we are the worst at knowing our rights. The government was very proactive when it was necessary to put out the consumption of counselling centres that helped citizens solve over 20,000 queries annually and return to 1000 kuna. These consultations are now replaced by a number of telephones, which only works 3 days a week for 10 to 14 hours, or complaints can be sent via an e-mail on which no one ever calls the citizens' complaints. Finally, we can transfer 1,000 fine European provisions, however, our government, our implementing bodies, if it does not do its job, everything will, as so far as consumer rights in the Republic of Croatia remain a dead letter on paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62169	Next debate on behalf of the Green-Left bloc club, respected representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62170	Thank you. So, today I was already talking about the problem of non-regulatory law enforcement agencies and, in fact, half-yearly information from the CNB where, among other things, it was officially and unofficially spoken by the CNB that the problem is, which is, which is, which is, the agency for the collection of claims was unregulated. The explanation that you have made to await the directive was also an explanation of the governors, and it seems to us that actually the citizens of the Republic of Croatia can no longer wait for the directive, let alone then its transposition into domestic legislation and that we actually need to act much faster. Of course, one part of the matter relating to consumer protection against demand collection agencies should be regulated by the Consumer Credit Act itself because, since the vast majority of the debts sold are consumer, consumer credits. What I asked today is whether, without the consent of the debtor, consumer loans could be sold in such a way as any other, as well as any other debt, because consumer loans have a special type of legal protection and at European level. When we look at this regulation, what we were expecting is that at least certain practices that claim collection agencies are doing towards citizens to regulate them here. First, the real thing is this which I have already mentioned, and this is how it actually communicates with itself, with citizens themselves or in the legal terms of consumers. Therefore, the Ombudsman’s office itself asked that the consumer’s entry into the consumer register should be prohibited from calling or calling by telephone for compliance with the obligations of the consumer contract and that this provision is necessary in order to often be inappropriately and excessively called by our citizens and very often and inappropriate communication that endangers both the privacy and dignity of people in order to limit people’s registration to the register Do not call and that this would limit the collection of claims agencies to call them in that way. What was the explanation of the ministry is that the behaviour of the creditors in order to achieve the demand for the nature of the crime is governed by the law on criminal law. I must say that we all know that, therefore, the criminal law or punishment is there intended as well as the whole procedure and are intended for the most severe forms of natural violation, violation of the law. This is very often about practices that are aggressive, which violate privacy and human dignity, but which are not what constitutes a certain crime. I don't know exactly what kind of crime it would actually be or see that there would be capacity to have the DORH deal with such types of behavior within criminal law. I don't think that's real. The other thing, what we have to have is effective legal means. So when I say effective legal means, those who, according to their own application, have mechanisms to immediately stop and even through a certain kind of temporary measures that limit a person’s conduct until the subject of what is the measure of the dispute exists at all, etc. What you also said here as an explanation of why you did not accept this proposal is that unlike the other cases covered by the register, do not call, that the reference to this kind of call for compliance with the consumer contract is to refer to those cases where the consumer has agreed by his will to conclude the contract. He agreed to conclude the original contract, he was protected by the Consumers Act, and if it comes to some other institutions then and the laws that regulate them. But at the time of his request, not the contract, because they claim that they are not doing the transfer of the contract, when his claim comes to the Agency for the collection of claims, then more of the will by which he concluded a contract guaranteeing him some minimum protection is no longer relevant because he has not concluded with that legal person. The third thing that we come up with is that when a debt, for example, is sold to Telekom to the claims agency, they can sell it further. We have cases of cross-border debt sales, so it's sold to companies that don't have a seat in the Republic of Croatia at all, which is allowed. Fourth, they're sold to natural persons. Now imagine the claim that comes from a natural person who goes to charge for it, what is it related to, what regulations, what laws, how does it fit? So I don't think we should miss out on this law temporarily at least until this assembly I hope this year is passed and a law that will regulate the agencies themselves that we need to be able to regulate minimum legal medicines and this minimum protection of the dignity of people who have really ended up in a kind of very often debt slavery that I can't, I can't get out of. I have to tell you the same way that many people who come to me here, and every Monday and Tuesday I'm here and I'm taking citizens who come just because many of them, that I've seen situations where they can't, so the basic right of the entire consumer body, which is that they know the state of their debt, that they know what the demand is, that I can't even get to it, that I can't get to the structure of the debt what the principal is, what the interest is, so they don't have the basic information, that they don't have the right to access to the contract based that their claim was transferred to the Agency for the collection of claims, they don't have the right to see it, they have to seek it by the judicial means, they're rare and there's the practice different. So, we have a serious problem of deregulation which, on many, is tens of thousands of people, affects the way that they are in the gray zone and that they can never actually get out of it. And yes, we think that this regulation is also the regulation that could at least prescribe some protection mechanisms. There's one more thing I wanted to point out that I know from a few of these situations, among other things, my dad was a victim of that kind of behavior, and this is about these long-distance contracts, especially by telecommunications. So, I have to say that the elderly, even those who are somewhat written in some way, are very often exposed to practices that are recognized by this law so that a long-distance contract is concluded, and that you didn't explicitly agree to it and that you couldn't get the video to prove that you didn't agree to it, we had a situation like that. So, to tell you that they're offering you a favor, that you don't want to have another operator, that they say we'll just send you an offer and then you take them off the phone, he says well send the offer, they send the package with the router, with everything, with the number, activate it, the accounts come to him, they won't pay the man, they don't use it, and you're half a year of oblivious performance and goodbye, he made the contract, he didn't make the contract, how to prove it in court, not at all. So you have, so these are situations where you especially, are particularly exposed to our older population, which sometimes very often doesn't understand that these contracts can be concluded at a distance today. They're used to when he asks for a favor, when he wants no, he has to sign it, so I guess he'll come up with something to sign, and then he'll see what it is, so he won't sign goodbye. They don't know that when they say something on the phone if it's so interpreted, and later they can't deny it that they actually entered into a contractual relationship and obligation and we really have to protect them from it. And the colleague used to talk about other vulnerable groups, such as disabled people, etc., so we have to recognize all these risks when making a contract at a distance as convenient and efficient as possible, but we also have to make it possible when, especially when it comes to telecommunications means where there is no record, even if you have e-mails or if it is digitally ok, but there is no record that there has to be some way that people can deny it or that there has to be a tone record or something that they can prove that they did not actually intend to make such a contract. Here, I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62171	Following individual debates, the first registered representative, Anka Mrak-Taritash, was reported.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62172	Thank you, well-respected vice president of the assembly, dear secretary of state with an associate. So in our first reading, we have the Consumer Protection Act. The Consumer Protection Act really opens up a number of other dilemmas and it is extremely good and quality to discuss it if we live at one time and this covid has shown us that you live at a time when you can actually do everything from your own home that you have no contact with anyone else at all. And there they are lurking in a series of dangers for both people and young people who take good care and take care and are critical of everything, especially for older people. I mentioned a few times before, and now he's fifteen years old, and I got a book from a young Australian architect who talked about the city of the future in a town where you're going to live in your apartment without coming out of that apartment or building where you live have all the food delivery services, and you're going to have a place where you can practice, big walls where you're going to see theater shows. And by reading that book I said, I don't care when it's gonna be me anymore, and that's what it turns out to be, and that's the situation where consumers are really going for it. And that's why it's important not only to have a correct law but to have correct application and control of everything. I'd like to point out two things here in an individual debate, one thing is a provision. In accordance with the Law on Mandatory Insurance and the unilateral termination of the contract to enable, therefore, the possibility of this unilateral termination of the mandatory transport insurance contract. And secondly, this law says that, it speaks of public service or exceptions to the possibility of suspending public service, it is a public service to collect municipal waste and biodegradable municipal waste. So, what's the point? The point is that we pay for the service we get, the point is that every consumer pays for the product they get. Now we come to the problem of waste, the problem of waste, and that's what each of us pays, so in the price of waste, part of your price is fixed, part of the price is variable. It is fixed for the reason that waste has to work no matter how much you produce, and it is variable according to what you produce. We are in the regulation on which this was defined by a special law the Constitutional Court has made a decision on counterconstitution from some other things. But what's the point? The point is, in fact, it remains a terrible dilemma, which you pay in the price of waste disposal. What should be paid, should be paid for the waste that you produce, should thus encourage everything for waste separation, plastic separation, bio-waste separation, separation of everything else and in different ways works in different units of local self-government. And a lot of complaints they have on that subject, people ask what I pay for. So what we know all the time, and we know that about daily it produces about a kilo of waste, so somewhere on a year-on-year level it produces some 350, 360 kg of waste. If you take this waste neatly apart, which is what units of local self-government somehow account for and should be an incentive then you separate plastics and look at how many plastics there are and that's just as much driving away as you do. If you separate yourself, if you separate everything else then of course this waste is less. And now it's about what you pay for. We've been paying, so the price that's been formed for many years was formed according to the square of the apartment, then now that price is no longer formed according to the square of the apartment, but formed where, according to the assumed amount of waste that you're going to produce. The complaints that are from the point of view and the protection of consumers are complaints about what you are paying for, so the complaints are because people want to know what they are paying for, and that is something that needs to be dealt with seriously, and this cannot be just a topic from the aspect of environmental protection, it is a subject that is therefore only one aspect of environmental protection, but another topic is from the aspect of consumer protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62173	We have two replicas, the first respected representative, Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62174	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I didn't think you'd encourage me to the line, but you did. So we've been commenting on it before, and I've been in the replica when actually especially our senior citizens are buying different ads, but I'm interested in just your opinion, a little bit here's the age difference, whether you're inciting this e-purchasing, so I'm not really a fan of the Amazon, eBay etc. I'm more of what you go to the store and buy yourself? I mean, you were talking about the waste, about the waste disposal, and I was watching some kind of show when you e-ordered something, so you don't like it, so put it back, and then they don't even get a new number back, and then they throw it away, and then there's a bunch of waste, so we're actually damaging environmental protection. Are you even a fan of that e-purchasing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62175	Thank you very much for that question. I'm always trying somehow regardless of what it is when they're late to tell life experiences. Some other couple of years ago, she came to visit my cousin's wife from America, and they went to a store where they bought some handiwork, I don't know if she liked it today, and there's this aunt, say, she bought some flaks and then she came to our apartment and she walked on the team and said she didn't like it, and I said I'm going back. I say where are you going back? But he's at the store. It was unthinkable for me at the time, for you to take something, for you to walk a little bit, to conclude that you didn't like them, and to put it back, it was normal for her. The e-purchase is normal today, so I'm careful, I buy books, I'm never clear that someone can buy shoes, I have to try shoes a hundred times because I have a closet full of shoes that are uncomfortable to me so I don't need another uncomfortable one. Let's just say when you buy a chair, I kind of like to see it and try it. Somewhere in half.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62176	The next replica of the esteemed representative Barbara Antolic Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62177	Dear MPs, Dark Tarritash. We know you're a fighter and now you've created a dangerous area. In fact, the fact that consumers who are consumers of waste disposal are not in the Consumer Protection Act is, therefore, a contractual relationship that has been completely left out of this law. Is there any way to finally reach such a systematic abandonment of such important relations from legislation?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62178	It is. Thank you very much. So we have a few topics that we find very difficult and reluctant to open. One topic that we find very difficult and reluctant to open is the problem of waste. We always leave it to the JLS to fight it alone in the best way or the worst way possible, but then you have people who only ask one thing, it's no problem to pay for it, I just need to know what I'm paying for. Because if, from the point of view of the environmental aspect, we want to reduce waste production, then we need to stimulate those who really take care of it. If my neighbor or my neighbors and I pay the same, and I separate, and they don't separate, then you ask yourself why you do it. So, it's like that domino effect, you ask the question, and that's why I think there should have been talk about it in this law, of course in accordance with some other law, since today it's the same ministry I don't see the reasons why the two administrations couldn't remember and a little agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62179	Time. Next individual debate, respected representative Barbara Antolic Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62180	Good evening to the president, dear MPs and MPs, I will be very brief and not read. So we have a Consumer Protection Act in front of us that should define and protect consumer rights in more detail. Consumers are all of us, and we also know how unquality products are than they were. You know, my mom's machine, not my grandma's, my mom's recently dead. I switched my life, and I'm a grandmother, 2-3, almost 4. So we're all witnessing that this programmed corruption is somehow our everyday life and something that really needs to be regulated better to protect not only our wallets but also the environment in which we all live. However, the welcome law is commendable on the basis of a directive which is a directive, rather than a command, 4 of which should also be implemented by the Law on Mandatory Relations where consumer protection laws are reduced compared to the Law on Mandatory Relations. There are a few places like this, you'll see for yourself later. The other thing I want to mention specifically is, in an article. In 37th, I reiterated this as a problem, taxing out the contracts, was also mentioned in several discussions before, if certain contracts were mentioned why not then and about, the export contracts were specifically mentioned as one of the important areas for consumers and if these contracts were not mentioned later that they might be extended to all similar cases, and then not only for waste but also for some other situations where consumer rights could be violated covered by that part. The second or third thing that I want to particularly apostrophe is what I have said before is that it is specifically stated in the law of the offence, and it is in the collapsing, in fact, about what you have previously said to me as in response to the replica, that there are no reminders or warnings that can be made, so I cannot give you any notices, given that the law infringing you in view of the amount of penalties imposed, so that is less than 5,000 kuna for a natural person, so that, in accordance with that article of the law, the inspector must and cannot give you a mandate. And by doing so, you've brought into an unfavourable position of a small craftsman in relation to large poisoning chains. Please take a look and comply with the criminal law with the sanctions that you're prescribing here in this law. Also in this law it is very commendable that JLS must provide space for the activities of the Consumer Protection Association, however, there is no obligation to pay employees who are most important in these societies, in fact man is the most important, not the space but the people who work as volunteers today need to pay people. So, in order for them to perform their duties they should be paid and for that, indeed, please consider the possibility of finding and the ministry finding salaries for these same employees as the practice in the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-07-0.u62181	Here's what we've exhausted the debate, I'm closing the debate, we'll vote when the conditions are met. We continue tomorrow, tomorrow is how you know the scheduled session at 10:00, and at 12:00 we move on with the agenda points. Good night, everybody. SESSEN INTERNAL IN 19.44 HOURS
