ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-18-0.u42937	The next club of MPs will be the green-left block, and Rada Boric will speak to a respected representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-18-0.u42938	The Honorable Chairman. A colleague and a colleague. Whether local media in Croatia are free or censored is the issue that the Assembly has dealt with even though it is crucial for the functioning of local democracy. Art. 38. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia guarantees freedom of opinion and expression of thought, in particular freedom of the press and other means of communication, freedom of speech, public appearance, freedom of establishment of all public communications institutions. Censorship is prohibited, journalists have the right to freedom of reporting and access to information, according to that article in the Croatian Constitution. Looking back on past local elections, we will see that only in Istria has there been a protest of journalists who have complained precisely about the difficulties they have in achieving fundamental constitutional rights in the dominant Istrian daily. List owners' retaliation came immediately after the election, reporters who complained were fired. All political options, except for the IDS and HDZ, have condemned such actions, and this is also telling us something. It tells us that in Istria it is decided in Zagreb in the secret co-ordination of the parties of IDS and HDZ whose conflict seems only an illusion. It tells us that in Istria it may be decided in Slovakia where the owner's seat is “Glas Istria” and it is interestingly called “JOJ Media House”, but unknown real owners who are both owners of both the New List and the Zadar List. True owners of the editor-in-chief sits with us in Bratislava. The prime minister doesn't seem to mind as he was bothered to have the owner of the N1 sitting in Luxembourg, but there's a wonder he doesn't mind these real editors from Bratislava. Who stands behind local media owners and otherwise in many local areas it is unclear even though it is known that they existed, and in many areas there are still contracts by local authorities with local media. Some of the local media must be more of the PR tools of local authorities, today and parties than the media in which constitutional values are being realised. In the Voice of Istria, we have a case that a journalist is exposed to the pressures of editors because she did not want to sign that she, not some PR team, prepared an interview with tourism minister Nikola Brnjak. About the shameful behaviour of the administration and the Voice of Istria, who has decided out of revenge to give extraordinary cancellations to journalists and journalists and media houses after warning the public of the non-professional editorial policy of the Voice of Istria in the entire pre-election campaign, in favour of, of course, IDS, journalists and journalists at the press conference for the Croatian Press Society and Journalists' Union of Croatia were also shown at a press releases and media houses after warning the public of the non-professional editorial policy of the Voice of Istria in the pre-election campaign for the benefit of the IDS, is just an inadmissible act. In addition, repressive and similar editors unfortunately damage and their own media which are the most read and supported in public only when they are critical of the authorities. All this tells us about a series of activities that are necessary if we want to improve the situation in local media. Transparency of ownership of local media, public publication of local media contracts with local authorities, but also with local utility companies, especially the ministries, as well as better supervision of local and state media pluralism funds, is part of a package of measures necessary for the freedom of local media, the development of local democracy and the achievement of constitutional values at local level. But that's not all. And citizens, not just institutions, can contribute to that, by asking for access to information on local media funding, by demanding to raise the criticism of media and professionalism in the media because no one burned the candle until morning, or by saying at one of the local Istrian dialects, you will, you will, so you won't for as long as you will.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-18-0.u43024	The next club of representatives will be the centre and GLAS on behalf of which the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-18-0.u43025	Dear Chairman, counterpart Boris, colleague Ivanovic. We had an interesting vote today on budget rebalancing, so I'm taking this opportunity to congratulate Silvana Hrelja what here, right where you're sitting now was the only green voice among the rest of us reds. I am convinced that Radimir Cacic understood this subtle message of the 77th vote. When I took office, I expected this HS meeting to be better. I expected our citizens to no longer see that corrupt practice we had, unfortunately looking at opportunities in the previous meeting. But apparently, while HDZ and its corruption are always going to be provided with parliamentary chips. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-18-0.u43026	That's what we're gonna do with work today. We will continue to work in the world, on 23 June at 9.30 p.m., and the first item will be the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Relations, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 148. Have a nice weekend. Session adjourned at 13.40 p.m. The next Club of Representatives will be the Croatian sovereigns on behalf of whom the respected representative Marijan Pavliček will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-18-0.u43090	The Honorable Vice President of HS, the esteemed colleague, has no colleague. Here I am warmly welcoming you all. Here in HS, there are colleagues and colleagues from the left liberal spectrum to the democratic and conservative spectrum, a different worldview and we all represent our electoral body and we need to articulate the position of our electoral body. But I believe that despite the different worldview, we all want the well-being of the Croatian state and society and the community in which we live. And among us there are grandchildren of former and Partisans and Ustashas and the natives but despite what is important we have sworn here that we will work for the welfare of the Croatian state, but some colleagues unfortunately always surprise me, especially in the last few days with their amendments to the rebalancing of the state budget for 2021. where they sought the abolition of the permanent rights of certain groups of Croatian societies, especially those who, by their work and their sacrifice, sought or contributed to the creation of the Croatian state through its history. Thus, a colleague from the Workers' Front asked, with her amendment, for the abolition of the pension item of the Croatian Homeland Army of 24 million kuna, but at the same time, her colleague is not saying that in the state budget and today there is an item that is fourfold larger than as many as 96 million kuna provided for the pensions of NOB fighters, for their families who today still have over 10,000 who have been using their permanent rights since '45. The last 76 years whose families after World War II have been colonized or nationalized by numerous properties, numerous apartments from formerly primarily members of the German national minority. Let's not be hypocritical, it's never been a black-and-white history, it's always history has its positive and negative sides, and we can never in one sentence accuse one side or the other of what stopped in one way or another. I was also surprised by a colleague from the Green-Left Block Club who asked for a reduction of compensation for Croatian defenders for nearly 30 million kuna, for the same Croatian defenders who allowed us to sit here today, that we can freely and openly present our position in the democratic Croatian state and I think we should have more respect for the people who gave their lives, who gave their body parts and contributed to their sacrifice by creating a society in which we live today and whose blessings we all benefit, especially the blessings of freedom. And I call once again on this path to all the parliamentary representatives, regardless of the world-wideness, that we all look forward together and work for the benefit of the entire society, not to seek to abolish the rights of certain groups of society because we are all members of one people who had a perilous past and all our ancestors have tried to contribute to the creation of this country. So let's not all look black and white because I believe that all of us here in HS want to contribute to this country and to the improvement of this country, as I believe today we will all cheer together for the Croatian football team so let's be unique in some other issues, not just in this general one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-18-0.u43281	[[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 13:19 A.M.]] We will now proceed with the statement on behalf of representatives' clubs and independent representatives, and will speak first on behalf of HDZ respected representative Nada Murganic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-18-0.u43282	I thank the esteemed Vice President HS, esteemed colleagues and colleagues in the hall. I would still like to speak on behalf of the HDZ Club on a very important subject which Minister Aladrovic told the public a few days ago when awarding the award to foster parents at the "Fireslav Lisinski" Hall, which is a very important fact that the Republic of Croatia has 50,000 more employees than at the same time last year, namely 50,296. Why should that be particularly pointed out? Especially to point out why a large number of our companies are doing and what a large number of our workers are doing even though we have been hit by a pandemic of the proportions that have affected all segments of our society, but they have certainly affected the economy because of the difficult organisation of work and commitment. This confirms a number of activities, which is confirmed by tax data. Why can we talk about this yet good result and success? And we can thank that for the government's moves, the government's moves, the adoption of government measures in a timely manner, taking care of the state's economy, and I certainly must stress that the government has acted sovereignly. We have preserved the economy, taken care of financial stability, but it should certainly be pointed out that citizens' health has also been managed and a very good balance has been achieved there. When we talk about measures, we should also talk about how much their total financial value is. The measures directed towards the owners were support for the preservation of jobs in those employers, those employers who, due to the special circumstances of the coronaryvirus, were affected by economic activity, 4,000 kuna per month per worker who works full-time, support for the reduction of working time also in the same employers, the support amounts to 3.600 kuna per worker per month. And what I would especially like to highlight, which is support for the preservation of jobs in the protection workshops, integration workshops and employment units for people with disabilities in the amount of 4,000 kuna per worker per month, so a full-time worker. All aid covers 120,000 employers, or nearly 700,000 workers, and 11 billion and 500 million kuna are paid. What should be stressed is that the measures are being followed, that the epidemiological situation is being monitored and that the government will also take further measures in line with the needs and further with the preservation and preservation of our economy. Now it's June and the measures are moving on. What would especially point out is that there are other indicators and activities. For example. when we compare the average salary of '16. Until '21. It also grew even though that wave of economic growth and the increase in wages that went up to 19. I'm sure the coronary crisis has slowed down, but 5,642 was the pay average, now it's 7.038. Covid's supplement is aimed at pensioners, tax relief for young people, so there are a number of activities aimed at improving our citizens' economic standards. And what we should be particularly proud of is the measures, the epidemiological measures that led to the preservation of the health of our citizens, and precisely because of them and vaccinations, we now have a reduced number of patients, and this is all leading to the normalisation of life, the movement of our citizens and the economic recovery.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-18-0.u44574	We're going to the first point today. That's the Mandate-Immunity Commission report. Report by the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the suspension of the term of office of representative Dari Zurovec and the termination of the post of deputy representative Davor Naj. The debate is closed, so I am voting on the motion for a decision to suspend the term of office of MP Dari Zurovec and to suspend the conduct of MP Davor Naj. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? It finds that 116 MPs and MPs voted in favour, so a decision was taken as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Secondly, the report by the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the suspension of the term of office of representative Damir Bajs and the termination of the conduct of the deputy deputy representative, Martina Grman Kizvac. The debate is concluded and I am voting on the proposal for that Decision. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 114 MPs and MPs voted, all in favour, so a decision was made as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Third, the Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the start of the stay of MP Tully Demetlika's mandate and the start of acting as deputy representative of Emil Daus. The debate is concluded and I am voting on the proposal for that Decision. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 116 MPs and MPs voted, all were in favour, so a decision was taken as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Fourth, the report by the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the start of the stay of MP Tomislav Tomasevic's mandate and the start of acting as deputy deputy representative of Urša Raukar-Gamulin. The debate is concluded and I am voting on the proposal for that Decision. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I also find that it is unanimous here with 114 for the decision made as suggested by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Fifth, Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the start of the stay of MP Angelko Strick's office and the launch of the conduct of the deputy deputy representative, Nadice Dreven Budinski. The debate is concluded, I am voting on the proposal for that Decision. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find it unanimous, 118 votes for the decision made as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. And the sixth, Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the start of the stay of MP Ivan Celjak's mandate and the start of acting as deputy deputy representative, Marin Piletic. The debate is concluded and I am voting on the proposal for that Decision. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find it unanimous, 119 votes for the decision made as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. After we've made these decisions, we're now moving on to making an oath of counsel. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 7 The Rules of Procedure stated that the president read the text of the oath, and then The appointed representative stands up and pronounces the word “I swear”. I'll read the text of the oath first. I swear by my honor that I will exercise my responsibility as a representative in the Croatian Parliament knowingly and responsibly, that in my work I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order and that I will stand up for all the progress of the Republic of Croatia. Now I'm going to call the MPs, and first of all, it's my colleague Damir Bajs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-18-0.u44575	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-18-0.u44576	Congratulations to my colleague, Damir Byce. The second one's up. The second one's up, buddy Emil Daus. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-18-0.u44577	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-18-0.u44578	Congratulations to you, too. The third is Comrade Ursha Raukar Gamulin. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-18-0.u44579	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-18-0.u44580	Congratulations to you, too. After that, colleague Nadica Dreven Buddinski. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-18-0.u44581	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-18-0.u44582	Congratulations to you, too. A colleague, Marin Chicken. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-18-0.u44583	So help me God and Holy Joseph, I swear. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-18-0.u44584	Congratulations to you, too. A fellow Zurovac does not have to take an oath because he has already passed at the beginning of the session. So congratulations once again to all MPs and MPs on their sworn oath and I wish them much success in the conduct of this responsible and important duty. We are now going to the Election, the appointment and the resolution, and the motion for decisions is the Committee for Selection, appointment and administrative affairs. The debate is closed. I also suggest here if you agree to a united vote on all 12 proposed decisions. We all agree, that's good. And then I am voting on proposal 12 of the decisions on the appointment and resolution of members of the HS working bodies. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find it unanimously 113 votes for decisions to be made as proposed by the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs. This is what we came to the end of, today at 18:00 we all cheer together for the Croatian football team and see you next Wednesday. Now, of course, after five minutes, it's going to be a standoff. Thank you all. It's a meeting at 13:19 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-18-0.u51224	That's right. Dear Mr. President, please take a break on behalf of the Green-Left Blocks Club in order to once again highlight the measure, but also give an opportunity for all other colleagues and all other clubs to consider this proposal to the conclusion that they are counseling and eventually accepting it. The purpose of this proposal is, therefore, to conclude that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is in charge of delivering not only the current state budget which has been redistributed from the original voting budget, but also that the original voting budget is delivered to us at the same time, in order to have in one of the same document all three relevant common data, and the voted budget and, therefore, the budget which it has experienced, in the meantime, the allowable redistributions and budgets and amendments and additions that the Government is proposing at that time. We are also asking that the government be in charge and that it does the same when making a state budget for next year. Thus, it would allow not only the complete, complete public, but also the representatives to better look at the proposed changes and additions, to take a closer look at and see exactly what is changed, so that we can better and better prepare our discussions. We are aware therefore, therefore, that the format in which this document is proposed today is absolutely in accordance with the law, but we are equally convinced that this proposal would benefit everyone and allow for a better, better and more contentious debate in the assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-18-0.u51225	Thank you, too. I'll do it in accordance with the article. 293b so we're not going to take a break, but we're going to join the vote. I am now voting on the Proposal for a conclusion of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives which the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept. Who's up for the proposal? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 113 MPs and MPs, 37 for, 2 abstentions and 74 against, and I conclude that the proposed conclusion did not receive the required number of votes. We are now moving to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2021, second reading, P.Z. No. 145. The promoter is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but the debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2021. Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 120 MPs and MPs voted, 77 for, 43 against, and thus the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2021.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-18-0.u52743	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Appreciable MPs and MPs. We do not accept this conclusion, since the revision of the State Audit Office at the Department of Stocks is currently under way, so it started about a month ago we expect it to end after the summer. Therefore, the revision is carried out for this reason, we do not accept the conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-18-0.u52744	Thank you. It's obvious, isn't it? Comrade Bauk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-18-0.u52745	Thank you, Mr. President. All opposition clubs have submitted a request for HS to reach this conclusion as a special item of the agenda. The reason why we were looking for a revision were the events after the earthquake when we had a shortage of housing containers compared to the needs of the population in the earthquake of the affected areas and I want the Parliament to make clear and accept our conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-18-0.u52746	Okay. So, I am voting now on the conclusion of the SDP Representatives Club, which requires HS to be referred to this way, the conclusion that HS points to a fundamental article. The 19th century is 1. The Law on the State Audit Office, the State Audit Office, requires the implementation of the revision of the strategic stock. That conclusion was not accepted by the government's representatives. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 113 MPs and MPs, 37 for and 76 against, and thus no conclusion has been reached as proposed by the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-18-0.u52747	Here's a esteemed colleague and colleague, good morning. We continue with the agenda, today's point is: The final proposal of the Law implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 on sustainability disclosures in the financial services sector and Regulation (EU) 2020/852 establishing a framework for facilitating sustainable investment and amending Regulation (EU) 2019/2088, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 144 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172, 204 and 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with Article 206. The Rules of Procedure adopted on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda a proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal by an urgent procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Secretary of State Zdravko Zrinasic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-18-0.u52748	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The law on the implementation of Regulations 2019/2088 and 2020/852 is essentially a series of legislative activities already in place in the Republic of Croatia, which are the order of adoption or of new directives or regulations in this case, and concerning a law called the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of Regulation 2016/1011 on indices established as reference values and this law is published this year in the National Journal 46. In fact, the whole framework of these legislations refers to the consequences of climate change, so both the EU and the whole world are unfortunately burdened in terms of all those events that occur negatively and reflect negatively on the economies of all countries of the world. Therefore, other than climate change and resource utilisation and other issues in terms of sustainability, climate change also affects the stability of the economic and financial system. The EU has therefore recognised the need for up-to-date activity in order to determine the direction of capital mobilisation, which would reduce such consequences in particular through investment in the financial services sector. It is important to note that the importance and concept of sustainable development has been adopted by the UN General Assembly since 2015, a document called the 2030 Sustainable Development Programme, and the 2016 Paris Climate Change Agreement, which was adopted with the aim of strengthening the global response to the dangers of climate change. In addition to these strategic documents, the European Green Plan, which is the main objective of the European economy in terms of digital, inclusive and sustainable from 2020, is therefore intended to become Europe's first climate neutral continent by 2050. The European Green Plan shall be maintained by means of measures to improve resource efficiency, shift to a circular economy to restore biodiversity and reduce pollution, all in order to adapt and mitigate the negative consequences of climate change. It is understood from this introductory section that everything is therefore focused on something that may not have so much to do with finance or the Ministry of Finance, but given the intensity or modelling of capital and the focus of capital on this investment, which is linked to sustainable development in terms of the European Green Plan, of course has more than a direct link to finance. So, in this context, as I have said, in 2018, the European Commission adopted this action plan for sustainable financing within the Capital Markets Union, and several regulations have been adopted, including this directive which I have just read and which we have transposed into the Law of the National Journal 46, and there are also these two directives which are now subject to this debate. The purpose of all those rules is to reroute capital flows and financial investments of participants in the capital market and so on. Financial advisor, we will mention them here in the context of the obligor. Therefore, directing their capital flows and financial investments towards environmentally sustainable economic activities in order to achieve the objectives set out in the European Green Plan and the Paris Agreement. As it is known, the EU regulations are otherwise applied directly, and I will only mention here that as far as they are concerned, one of them is applied immediately early this year, and the other at the beginning of next year, or on a scale since 10 March '21. until 1 January '23. In order to say, in the general public, I would understand the purpose of this final bill would only briefly refer to the main provisions of one and the other regulations. As far as the taxonomy Regulation is concerned, this Regulation speaks of the establishment of a framework for facilitating sustainable investment under the law. The regulation is a key legal act, which will contribute to achieving the EU's objectives in 2050. has a climatic neutral economy. It establishes a single classification system for environmentally sustainable economic activities at EU level to determine whether an economic activity is environmentally sustainable as well as a degree of environmental sustainability of economic activity. The taxonomy regulation is particularly important as it will provide investors and companies with guidelines for investing in economic activities that contribute to and achieve climate neutrality targets or incentives to make sound decisions on investments in environmentally sustainable economic activities. Six defined environmental objectives under this Regulation, I will only read them briefly, it is a mitigation of climate change, then adaptation to climate change, sustainable use and protection of water and marine resources, transition to so-called the circular economy, prevention and control of pollution and protection and restoration of biodiversity and ecosystems. In terms of this circular economy, I would just like to explain, this is a model of production and consumption in terms of reuse or renewal of a particular product or its recycling and in a similar way of adapting to its longer use in order to reduce environmental pollution. Obligations for participants in the financial market begin gradually as I said from 2021-2023, and regarding these first two objectives I mentioned, so climate change mitigation and climate change adaptation start from 1 January 2022, while the remaining four objectives of 1 January 2023. As far as the sustainability regulation in the financial services sector is concerned, radio obligations for the publication of data relating to sustainability in the financial services sector are concerned. Therefore, obligations are prescribed in a way that participants in financial markets and financial advisers are obliged to inform investors or clients as well as to publish information related to the implementation of environmental, social and management factors in the investment decision-making process. As regards participants in the financial market under the law, and here we counted them in the regulation itself, according to this definition, participants in the financial market are considered insurance companies offered by an investment insurance product, then investment firms providing portfolio management services, an institution for occupational pension insurance, which is a pension company in the Republic of Croatia that manages closed voluntary pension funds and pension insurance companies, then a pension insurance company, a retirement company, a manufacturer of pension products, a manager of attractive investment funds, a provider of pan-European personal pension products, a manager of alternative investment funds, etc. So everything goes in the context of the financial industry. As regards the definition of financial advisers and I will only briefly count a few insurance intermediaries providing insurance services for insurance insurance related to investment insurance products, then insurance company providing insurance services related to investment insurance products, credit institution providing investment consulting services, etc. So these are all financial institutions which, by the way, according to this directive, I have commented that it has already been adopted or transposed into our legislation in the National Journal 46, which refers to large economic operators that have over 500 employees and which, otherwise, in their corporate governance code, have such processes already implemented. So, essentially, when we talk about environmental social governance factors translated and simplified,... certain fuses in the legislative framework to prevent manipulation in terms of the company's environmental responsibility or the environmental benefits of its products and services used in the product with a sustainability label, e.g. healthy, ecological or green, and they're essentially not. So, as you yourself know today when you go into large chains, you see if any product is environmentally acceptable, whether you want clean food, whether you want GMOs free etc., etc., and that such declarations on these products tomorrow are not fake, that is the purpose of preventing it here. And in order to prevent, of course, certain rules are laid down which will lead to the investment of capital of those who are environmentally acceptable. Therefore, the purpose is to ensure that participants in financial markets and financial advisers in their business processes include relevant sustainability risks that could have a significant negative impact on the financial return of investment or the quality of consultation and that they are continuously assessing them. These assessments under the rules on the implementation of related sustainability in the service sector are mandatory for participants on their website to publish. Information on policies to include sustainability risk in the investment decision-making process, then information on the inclusion of sustainability risks in award policies and information on considering the more significant adverse impact of investment decisions on sustainability factors. Furthermore, financial participants are obliged to publish information at the level of all their financial products on how to include sustainability risks in investment decisions, the results of an assessment of the likely effects of risk on the success of financial products and information on the examination of adverse effects at the level of each product. As regards the taxonomy regulation, for financial products aimed at sustainability, participants in the financial market are required to publish an additional set of data in their pre-contractual documents, periodic reports and on the website, and to give investors information on product characteristics and to what extent and how the economic activities invested by the product are environmentally sustainable according to the provisions of this Regulation. In addition to these commitments, there are also provisions of the Sustainable Publications Regulation in the EU financial services sector from 2014/95 which I mentioned earlier and which relate to large economic operators with an average number of employees of 500 workers during the previous financial year. To whom does this Regulation apply? They shall not apply to pension products producers operating national social security systems, which in the Republic of Croatia are pension corporations for the management of compulsory pension funds and compulsory pension funds. Furthermore, the option, which was allowed by the regulations, which has been used here, is that these regulations must be followed and are included in open voluntary pension funds or pension companies that manage open voluntary pension funds, and that is because the bonds of application of the Regulation are linked... in the financial services sector compared to closed voluntary pension funds, it is a logic to rely on these two regulations as well. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And otherwise, the objective of both open and closed voluntary pension funds is to ensure their members' income in pension, and in this context it is logical and proportionate to make their members and potential members available and the data related to the sustainability of the pension product they offer them. In addition, he would mention that this final law does not foresee the use of national discretion from the Article. Paragraph 2 of the Regulation does not include insurance intermediaries, or as obligors, provided they employ less than 3 persons. As for the competent authority, the law had to be regulated. In this case, a certain Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency has been designated and the law also regulates criminal liability for breach of the requirements laid down in the Regulation of one and the other. Finally, I believe that exactly the financial sector will certainly play a key role in the transition process towards a sustainable economy, and that is precisely through the active direction of the capital raised towards sustainable economic activities. I would also point out that the HS Legislative Committee has submitted Amendment No. 144/1 per article. The 5th law, given the nomotechnical nature of the amendment, is accepted by the government. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-18-0.u52749	Thank you. We have one replica, distinguished representative Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-18-0.u52750	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, it's more of a technical matter. Do these laws apply to banks? Why? Because he's here, he's in charge of HANFA for this part of the dish, so I'm curious if he's here in art. 4th century 8th and 11th respectively says that the credit institution is a credit institution defined in a law governing the capital market. That means they're actually going to be under the HANFAs for reporting, so technically, that's what I'm technically interested in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-18-0.u52751	Thank you very much and thank you for asking. Indeed.../The speaker does not understand/... the determination of this regulator, there have been a lot of discussions and discussions and arrangements in which to bridge it, and yet to be effective, it is decided all to be the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency, and because of the specificity and type of investment that the HANFA has in its domain, so of course credit institutions that provide portfolio management this portfolio management service would fall under the control of the HANFA. The deal between the CNB and the HANFA, or the Ministry of Finance, was therefore that it was one body that co-ordinated with the CNB, and where the Ministry of Finance should take steps.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-18-0.u52752	Thank you, Secretary of State. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? There isn't. Then we open the debate, the first to discuss is the SDP Representatives' Club, the esteemed representative Boris Lalovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-18-0.u52753	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with his associates. There are two directives before us today. One is so-called. SFRD Directive or regulation, and another is the taxonomy Regulation. And now that we are discussing it, the question is, where do they touch Croatian citizens, where do they deal with Croatian companies or with the entire financial or economic public? As mentioned here in the introduction this is intended exclusively for participants in financial markets, here is the State Secretary and explained which participants are on the financial market that other than pension funds, investment companies, banks, that there are certain financial intermediaries, such as insurance intermediaries, so the entire financial market is now under one regulation, but what regulation? Reporting regulations. That's, that's an important context. So they will have to report from time to time on harmful impacts and demands on a period of time, as a whole, how their products affect the economy. Why does it matter? On the one hand, the European Commission offers a number of, numerous funds, funds through funds for the economy to move towards digitalisation and to move towards the green economy. On the other hand, through this one, in fact through these regulations, financial intermediaries are obliged, primarily in this part, to think about banks and the entire financial industry, to report on how the economy on the other hand harms the environment through their, through, through, through these products. And the obligation to publish data means in the financial services sector, so it's prescribed, it's so-called. The SFDR Directive, and the smaller part of the regulation on taxonomy, which forms an integral part of the EU's package of legislation on sustainable financing... means all the time, in fact, the next period is about sustainable financing. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Sustainable financing is the process of considering and taking into account environmental social and management factors when making decisions on investment or investment advice, which should ultimately lead to a long-term increase in investment in sustainable economic activities and projects, the SFDR Regulation is prescribed for financial actors and financial advisers to make new commitments, what we have said here, the obligation to publish on sustainability, and the purpose of these disclosures is to enable and facilitate final investors to make information, investment decisions and to prevent so on. Greenwashing. What is the national language here, and I will read you a report from a large financial institution published on its pages. I am preparing for today's debate according to today, through the website I have actually explored the Croatian financial system and in fact all financial institutions, since this Regulation enters into force on 10 March 2021, so it has already entered, all financial intermediaries have already published on their websites, have published, according to this Regulation, their reports on what their product or final environmental impact is. And in hours, I have to admit, since it's all new, it's all new to them and actually all of us, it's for now, what, not to say legally speaking, that they're considering it, that they're going to consider it. However, there will not be any data, there is no general data in their reports, and I will read you a report from a large financial intermediary who is also on the Croatian market, I will not name it, and see what will mean in the future for banks, and what it will mean for the economy, that we do not think this is just some particular directive. So I'm reading now means from their site, meaning sustainable financial products, not only support the transition to a low-carbon economy, but realizes the potential for growth. The company invested more than 100 wind plants and solar parks, invested around 7 billion euros, it is a large European company operating in Croatia, leaving an important investor for energy transition, investing in green building certificates rose from 15 billion euros to 18 billion euros. They already report specifically in their portfolio where they invest, invest in wind power plants, invest in, invest in wind parks, and e.g. Green buildings. Be careful what is stated in them, that all those who engage in this activity may know what will come upon them one day. In particular, mining companies that plan new coal mines or generate more than 25% of coal extraction revenue or more than 10 million tonnes of coal per year will no longer receive property and accident insurance from 1 January 2023. It says very explicitly, this large insurance house, or financial conglomerates, that it will no longer provide companies with such criteria. Furthermore, as stated or above 5 gigawatts a year, as well as providing coal services that generate more than 25% of revenue. Business activities, investment opportunities in these companies based solely on renewable energy, will continue to provide or finance if there is an overall path of climate transition. In the portfolio of insurance funds, there were no new coal projects since 2018 and since 2015 over 6m euros in coal-based business models have been phased out. Here it will reduce practice to 25%... So this is one long-term horizon, it's not going to happen overnight, it's going to happen in 2050, this transition that's going to happen, but the financial industry is going to have to report, and that's why I'm saying whether banks are the most financing of the economy and their facilities, and for now, I'm saying, it's a report that doesn't have, from it, some additional indicators of what the environmental impact of our companies is, is whether, which products in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, according to this large financial intermediary from the EU, you see how they have already prepared themselves and even announced in their policies, financial policies announce that they will refer to those companies that are polluting the environment, which are destroying the natural environment, and that they have already set limits, which have already been clearly set up by me honestly and astonished, when they have stated that they will cease to provide, or finance such sectors, and the economic sectors, and this, however, there is a very clear message from the EU Commission, which is why companies in the period up to 2050 have to move on to an ecological transition, so they have to be provided with financial resources, and therefore they are asked from those who finance on the other side, except the Commission and through funds that they finance the economy, that clearly say how, not only the existing portfolio that they will not be so simple and evaluated, it is very difficult and... to have certain specific data, it's not just like that, someone has to tell you how much carbon it gives, how much carbon it casts out carbon dioxide, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There will have to be and therefore it is related to those indices that you mentioned, that it will have to do the serious relevant houses that I asked you when I asked you, it will probably do this because Croatia has no capacity to assess a certain factory, I don't know, in any part of Croatia as harmful to the environment or as harmful to the environment, but that is what is actually expected in the next period which is a 10-year period to start preparing for serious changes, serious changes in those when they are being made even if it is going to finance the company because it even writes very clearly to you that with financial, financial impact, does it mean whether someone will return money or not ultimately have to have an environmental or sustainability factor and that you have to specify it in their own, in this report. So the SDP Club will support this so this is not just the kind of directive that should be applied here today, there is serious work both in front of the Croatian Government and in front of the Croatian economies in this adaptation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-18-0.u52754	Next is the debate of the Association of MPs of the Homeland Movement, respected representative Vesna Vucilović.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-18-0.u52755	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian National Assembly, respected state secretaries with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, I will begin my presentation with one information that may be shocking, which is that Greece has issued bonds with a negative contribution. This best tells us what is the situation on financial markets right now, the money has and even pays others to take it at all, interest is at record low levels and that someone told you 5, 6, 10 years ago that Greece will issue a bond with a negative contribution you would say, remember those debts, the IMF's reprogramme, etc., so it's been such a situation, it's been going to last for a while and when it lasts, it's not up to us, it's up to the central banks that are currently running such an expansion policy of money, so we'll see how long it's going to go. They have ignored the impact of possible inflations that are growing slightly, and we will see which figures they will come up with. As far as this calculation is concerned, which is referred to by a colleague named Lalovac, in which some of these things will be calculated there are GRI guidelines, which very clearly define all these indicators based on which non-financial reports are already being made. So, in principle, it's not an excessively big problem, but I have to point out that we have talked here many times about socially responsible investment, and these are now two regulations, and we don't have a lot of space here, so when a regulation is adopted, we have to transpose it, it's not like a directive to set a goal, so we're going to figure out how we're going to achieve that goal. So these are the regulations we have to, we have to comply with them. And we often talk here also about climate change, about sustainable development, energy efficiency, it's all great, is it all part of the European Green Plan, which is very ambitious, but we must always ask ourselves what the role of the Republic of Croatia is in this whole story. At global level, our impact is absolutely nothing, completely negligible and now someone from the Green-Left block would probably say that but a little bit, a little bit of every plastic bag, this one, right over there, but we as a sovereign state always have to take care of what our priorities are. Whether our priorities are reducing CO2 emissions, and we have already reduced them significantly, if you are watching the '90s and today these emissions have decreased significantly, if you are looking at nature protection and over 30% of Croatia's land territory is protected, if you add what is in Natura 2000 in the ecological network, then that is over 30% as much as the EU guidelines prescribe. So we discuss the Paris Agreement, green marketing, climate transition from week to week, but these are all EU priorities, let's not fool ourselves. What are our priorities? I wish these were our priorities, it would mean that we are at the top of the EU's most developed member states, but we are not, we are at the beginning, we are in society with Bulgaria and we are at the beginning and we are number one only when it comes to corruption, perception of corruption and some of these negative things such as the effectiveness of the legal system. So our priorities must be economic and demographic revitalisation because these are the 2 fundamental problems Croatia faces today. When you look at socially responsible investment, it's a global scale that's still a market niche, let's face it, it's a priority in Europe, it's not a big deal in the world. It started in America, so it moved in with us and Europe is currently the leading market because France has its own law prescribed that their pension funds are a certain percentage which is not so small they must invest in socially responsible companies. According to the 2016 Eurosifa report, France is just one of the most developed markets and records the most significant growth rates so that this regulation should also be seen in this context. So when you prescribe something that needs to be done, then something happens. It is no secret that Europe, in its action plan to build the Capital Markets Union, the European Commission said at the time that new long-term and sustainable investments are necessary to increase the competitiveness of the EU economy, and then, in this context, it states that through environmental social bonds, management bonds should direct capital according to these ESG factors towards sustainable investment. I was also the last time you talked about indices asked Mr. Curaj's State Secretary how much of the stake in Croatia this sustainable investment did not know me tell you I'll tell you it's a mental noun in Croatia there's no trace of it. And in principle, non-financial reports only do one part of the companies that have to do so under the law because the non-financial reporting directive has arrived, and then we, too, are accordingly, so these are large companies maybe some 50 companies that do so. The document states that the changes will not result from increased capital costs for SMEs because they are mainly financed by bank loans, but the question is whether banks will have to provide these reports will probably also ask for additional reports from both SMEs which could complicate their life and increase and cause additional costs for non-financial reports. These reports are not news, but you have on the number of global stock exchanges, mainly Europeans, that classic financial reports are required and not financial reports that are then being conducted according to these GRI guidelines as I have already said and I say it is not unusual, it has been a common practice in Europe in the stock exchanges for a long time. I have to ask the question, was the Croatian State asking for a non-financial report under the National Recovery and Resistance Plan of the Roman Car? There will be a billion and a half kuna. Don't think I'm against it, though, we need more Roman cars, but we do apply those criteria a little bit the way we do. There's a lot of investment, I don't doubt that Roman cars meet the ESSG criteria, but I tried to find their non-financial report, some kind of report on sustainable development, no social responsibility I found. Maybe you have one? I don't know, if you have it here I'd like to see it. Although I'm saying, just because someone deals with electric cars doesn't mean that they meet the GRI guidelines and everything that socially responsible investment requires. Often you will find, I have worked and personally some research means on small and medium-sized enterprises that they also really care about water and energy consumption, gas, electricity because it's important for them to cut costs, they don't do these reports, but it doesn't mean they don't take care of these factors that are set up here. And in the end, I'm going to look very briefly at this green marketing thing just to give you a relationship and bring to that thesis from the beginning, which is important to us, which is important to the EU. These eco-labels on products to go to any trading chain are too high, does not mean, of course, that every consumer guarantees that this product is in line with ecologically acceptable criteria, however, it is often only for the purpose of achieving a higher price on the market and ultimately I would dare even say consumer deception. So far, our companies have not recognised the two labels that guarantee consumers, which are the EU Ecolabel and HR Environment Friend, so far only 16 certificates for a total of 34 products and 6 tourist accommodation services have been issued in Valamar camps. There are tens of thousands in the EU, and this tells you what EU priorities are and what the priorities of the Republic of Croatia are, and that is what I must point out because that is exactly what we here in the Croatian National Assembly always have to take care of and take care of what are Croatian priorities, which is the economic and demographic restoration of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-18-0.u52756	Thank you. The next debate is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative of Jure Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-18-0.u52757	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Secretary of State with his associates, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here is the proposal for a law implementing EU Regulation 2019/2088 and Regulation 2020/852 with the Final Proposal for a Law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 31 May 2021. We heard in the opening address of Mr Zrinasic, State Secretary, who pointed out that the reasons for the adoption of this law are to provide assumptions for the implementation of Regulation 2019/2088 on sustainability announcements in the financial services sector and Regulation 2020/852 establishing a framework for facilitating sustainable investment and amending Regulation 2019/2088. The main objectives are as we have heard the identification of the obligor of the application of the regulation of the competent authority, the cooperation between the competent authorities and the infringement provisions. Regulation 2019/2088 lays down a general framework for the publications relating to sustainability in the financial sector and concerns harmonised transparency rules for financial market participants and financial advisers in terms of including sustainability risk and taking into account the adverse effects on sustainability in their business processes, investment decisions and investment advice and the provision of information related to sustainability related to the financial product. Furthermore, the purpose of the transparent publication of the data is to facilitate the decision made by investors, to increase the level of protection of investors, potential investors, and to prevent so on. green marketing. Otherwise, green marketing is the concept of the i.e. the type of social, ecological marketing in which products, services and all marketing activities are planned and implemented taking into account the action and impact they may have on the environment and society as a whole. The phenomenon of green marketing is linked to the beginning of the 1990s. Green marketing is a title for marketing efforts aimed at meeting consumer wishes related to environmental protection. However, we return to the bill before us, namely, to the establishment of uniform and harmonised rules on ESSG factors in terms of environmental and social governance factors, announcements for participants in financial markets and financial advisers and all Member States, which will enable effective comparisons of different financial products in Member States with regard to their ESSG factors. As HANFA otherwise points out guidelines for the production and publication of ESSG factors relating to environmental, social and management factors, companies should be helped to be as ready as possible when non-financial reporting is standardised at European level which is important for attracting green investments. It may be useful to mention that environmental factors refer to issues such as waste management, CO2 emissions, energy efficiency, water and air pollution, etc. Social factors refer to working conditions or community, inclusiveness, human rights, data protection and privacy, while governance factors address issues such as the composition of the administration in respect of gender equality, etc. This kill all belongs to the ESG factors. If a company wants to withdraw funds from the EU instruments next generation, one of the key things will be to make the project digital and green, and the ESG factors can now serve as evidence that some companies are applying the elements that are enough to apply for the funds. I would only mention that the EU has worked very hard to adapt the green investment system, with the aim and prevention of investment from societies that use manipulative and green marketing, etc. Greenwashing. I would like to remind you, on this trail is the Taxanomy Regulation, which we have heard, which defines economic activities that can be considered environmentally sustainable, and which has been adopted by the Sustainable Data Publications Regulation. As long as the EU has been under discussion on the standardised form of reporting, the HANFA initiative has gone towards helping domestic companies, especially those on the Stock Exchange, to show these data, so that later when the standards that European regulators will prescribe come into force, ours will already be as ready as possible. It is, in fact, important to the capital market that we see in this law because of the potentially great effect that one who is first picks up more laurels. I might also mention that at a HANFA press conference, the ESG reporting also opens new business opportunities and enables business relations with suppliers and business partners to be established. I would remind you that since the signing of the Paris Agreement, the growth of the ESG investment at global level has been seen since 2015. All types of investment funds are increasingly relying on these factors, and, for example, by the end of 2019, more than 37 billion euros have been respected. Because of everything I've said, I find this law important and important to us today. Furthermore, as set out in this proposal for a law, it is possible to ensure that Regulation (EU) 2020/852 is implemented in relation to the provisions relating to sustainability posts in the financial services sector and the supervision of such publications, which complements the financing framework set up by Regulation 2019/2088. Furthermore, it is important that, when the scope of Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 applies, pension companies operating open and voluntary pension funds are included, considering that they are already the same bonds of application of Regulation 2019/2088 in relation to closed and voluntary pension funds. Namely, sustainability issues, e.g. Climate change, labour rights, public health, are important drivers of investment value. This is particularly important for pension societies because they hold assets in the least medium and mostly long term, which corresponds to time frames during which many sustainability issues are expected to develop. We heard in presenting the bill's proposal not to foresee the use of national discretion from art. 17th century 2 of Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 in relation to insurance intermediaries. Given the scope of the obligations, as far as micro-entrepreneurs are concerned, such enlargement would not be proportionate and justified. As I have already mentioned and referred to HANFA's statements, this proposal defines the law as being a.../incomprehensible/... HANFA as the competent authority for implementation. It also regulates the introduction of a criminal liability for breach of the requirements of the Regulation and the harmonisation of the range of fines for infringements for all participants in the financial market. Since it is the beginning of the same part of the same category of entities, the same principle applies to financial advisers. I would point out once again that Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 defines ways and places where sustainability-related information must be consistently and transparently shown, both at the level of the obligor and at the level of the financial product that makes it available, whether the financial product has a focus on sustainability or not. The relevant information on the obligor’s business decisions and on the characteristics of financial products which appear to be available to investors shall be published in the pre-contractual documentation and periodic reports of the financial product in accordance with applicable sectoral legislation. In addition, information on promotion of environmental or social characteristics and sustainable investment is also published on the website of financial market participants. This information must be updated on a regular basis and shall be published on the obligor's website and a clear explanation of the changes. Furthermore, the bonds of Regulation 2019/2088 are also obliged to ensure that their promotional content does not conflict with the information they have published under the provisions of Regulation 2019/2088. Furthermore, this proposal for a law also provides for the implementation of Regulation 2020/852 which complements the framework for the publication of sustainable financing set up by Regulation 2019/2088. I would also point out that Regulation 2020/852 defines the following environmental objectives, climate change mitigation, climate change adaptation, sustainable use and protection of aquatic and marine resources, transition to a circular economy, prevention of pollution control, and protection and recovery of biodiversity and ecosystems. The publication of such information will enable investors to establish the share of investments relating to environmentally sustainable economic activities in relation to all investments on which the financial product is based. This enables investors to understand the degree of environmental sustainability of investments. It may not be much in Croatia, but it is also important for this law and this regulation. Finally, by adopting this proposal for a law, the Republic of Croatia will bring its legislation into line with the acquis in order to enable the implementation of the provisions of Regulation 2019/2088 and Regulation 2020/852 and, as a result of this, the HDZ Club will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-18-0.u52758	Thank you. No more reports, so I'm closing the hearing. We'll vote when the conditions are met. And now I declare a break until 12 o'clock. There'll be a vote at 12 o'clock. It's 10.18 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-18-0.u52759	The final proposal of the Law implementing EU Regulation 2019/2088 on sustainability disclosures in the financial services sector and EU Regulation 2020/852 establishing a framework for facilitating sustainable investment and amending EU Regulation 201/2088, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Number 144. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee and was adopted by the proposings and thus became an integral part of the final draft law. I am now voting on the final proposal of that law. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that, unanimously, 111 votes for the adopted Law implementing EU Regulation 2019/2088 on sustainability disclosures in the financial services sector and EU Regulation 2020/852 establishing a framework for facilitating sustainable investment and amending EU Regulation 2019/2088.
