ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u27195	Good afternoon, everyone, 9.30, we're starting work. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 226.St. 2. I will propose to the Rules of Procedure to supplement the agenda of this 6th session with 8, with 8 new points. A proposal to supplement the agenda was submitted by electronic means. Art. 227. The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Art. 206. The Rules of Procedure lay down that, following an urgent procedure, laws are adopted which comply with EU documents if requested by the applicant, and are not voted on, on those points, that is, point 1 of the proposed supplement and that is: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Transport in Road Transport with the final proposal for a law which is in an emergency procedure and the first and second reading together and the proposal for a Law No. 123. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The 206th century is 1. I hereby declare that this legislative proposal is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. How appropriate. The 225th century 4th century. There are no rules of procedure of written objections at the proposed items of the draft agenda. Is there? No writings? [[No, no, no, no, no, don't.]] No writings? Let's move on. I'm trying to determine...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u27196	Excuse me, can I just ask you a quick question?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u27197	Wait a minute for me to finish it, then, and then we'll see what you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u27198	Yeah, yeah, yeah, thanks.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u27199	I find that all the proposed items are included in the agenda of the 6th session. Mr. Matula, what did you want?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u27200	I apologize, I know it's not according to the Rules of Procedure, but it's unusual to me how is it that all the points that were on the government yesterday except for our impelation to the government on civil protection this how is it not included today in the expansion of the agenda?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u27201	I don't know, they haven't come yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u27202	... Right, that point got lost on the way to that. [[Last-on speaker]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u27203	Look.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u27204	Dear...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u27205	Mr. Matula, there are certain deadlines, if it was yesterday we got it today. Okay? And since there are no written objections, we are now moving on and starting with, and this question of yours will be the time to speak in the future. - Mrs. Crescent. Andreja Maric will be the position of the SDP Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u27286	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, today I will speak of the Immunological Institute. The Immunological Institute is an institution that has protected us from infectious diseases since 1893. The Immunological Institute used to cover 20% of the world market, and today someone else does. The cause of the collapse has been a systematic neglect of the last 2, 3 decades in the conversions and privatisations of the 1990s. Immunologically, he failed to modernize his business and thus lost his license in 2013 and the production was shut down in 2014. As early as 1997, Immunologically ceased to be an institution that co-operates with the World Health Organization, the very one that placed our vaccines in the world's very top. The attempt to privatise failed, the state gave up sales and decided to take the Institute into its own hands and turn it into an institution of public interest. In July 2015, the then Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a decision to initiate the procedure for the recasting of the company Immunological Institute d.d. at the Institute of Health Activity, Immunological Institute. Then, in June 2018, the Government of the Republic of Croatia put the decision out of effect, after which two legal entities, i.e. the Immunological Institute d.d. and the Immunological Institute continued to operate as two legal entities. Nebulose. It's done through two parallel systems and it's unclear how the state allows it. The establishment is 100% state-owned, the founders of the Ministry of Health and through the institution are conducted all processes of human employment, registration, so all that is necessary for business, and the company is mostly owned by the state, about 79%. It has debts, there are buildings in which the facility is currently located. So everything could be resolved to resolve the duality of existence. In 2016, a statement by then Minister Nakic could be read in the media as soon as possible to convert the Institute of Immunology from the company to the institution. And what happened? Nothing. The following are the promises made by Minister Kujundzic, an attempt to include the City of Zagreb. As early as February 2018, the Parliamentary Investigation Commission recommended the measures to be taken, which is that there cannot be two legal entities, but one and then solve problems through it. In June 2019, the Government concluded that the Immunological Institute is the key holder of the implementation of the National Plan for supplying Republic of Croatia to medicinal products produced from human plasma. It was only in April 2020 that the government decided on a rapid assessment of the market value and on a study of the use of state-owned property, which was produced by the Immunological Institute, and this was all to be done in the process of its conversion and privatisation. The debts are more than 100 million kunas. Most of them towards the state and should be converted into core capital. Other debts to banks and suppliers would be reprogrammed. From earlier on over 400 staff at the Bureau, there are now about 150. These people want to work and produce, but new staff and experts need to be refreshed. A petition for the rescue of the Immunological One was launched by the People's Initiative "Our Blood for Our Health", many individuals also joined. During this pandemic, the Institute assisted HZZZ in preparing the test bases for Covid-19. Currently, most employees deal with blood plasma, so plasma storage from all transfusion centres in Croatia is collected, then equipment to the external fractionator and it is obliged to return finished drugs to the market of the Republic of Croatia. Now, who knows if Croatia would be more successful in dealing with this coronary crisis if our Immunological Institute were still working because it might be working here on the invention and production of the vaccine? Now this government is announcing a new start with a new building in Brezje at a new location. They say the status of property ownership has been resolved, so far unresolved property relations, a feasibility study has been made as a condition for money from the Recovery Fund and with the help of EU funds, 380 million kn will be provided for Immunology. We were living to see, we hope this will happen because it's a strategic facility. However, it shocks the fact that, on 27 January of this year, the commercial court launched a procedure to delete the company from the Court Register because they failed to comply with the legal obligation to submit reports In the meantime, they sent reports for 2017. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] They were alive and seen.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u27287	Thank you very much. [[Intruder Maric: Thank you.]] - Mrs. Crescent. Rada Boris will be the position of the Green-left bloc's representatives club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u27393	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. Pre-campions for local elections have already begun. The cities are covered in jumbo posters from which those who promise smile. Promises have been repeated that have been promised both past elections and have not been fulfilled. Bridges, national stadiums, swimming pools, urban and intercity transport. It's promised and impossible from impossible, from tax cuts and cuts to a cancer vaccine hospital. In the campaign, candidates address their target groups, so for March 8th, those who achieved and marginalized the International Women's Day, shared plastic jars with stepmothers by yesterday. It's like women are looking for flowers, not the right to equal working conditions, equal benefits, pensions, or a law that would be prosecuted by official duty. The campaigns take pictures with pensioners, but also with children. Can children be used for politically propaganda campaign purposes and for political purposes? When you see the title in the media, children from Zvezdice kindergarten together with the mayor and candidate of the mayoral party in the recent elections, she participated today in the planting of the trees as part of the "plant a tree, don't be a panj". The publication was accompanied by photographs showing clearly kindergarten children and the mentioned candidate. What's the matter with this title and these photos? Why is such a use of children for political promotion unacceptable? Because it raises a number of questions, did parents give permission to use their children for politically propaganda purposes by the candidate party for mayor? Are parents even allowed to find themselves in the circumstances of such a procedure, and if so, how has this procedure been carried out? How is each child’s personality protected? What kind of unwanted situation did the parents of children who did not share the political orientation of the mayoral candidate find themselves in? Only in Croatia, as an immature democracy, can party membership be identified with the interests of the entire community because this is not just about the mayor, who in one of his duties is working with children. Well, it's no wonder when party membership is identified with the interests of the entire community. That is how HDZ is equated with the state, and this candidate does not see anything controversial when in her own promotion she uses children to help, as stated in the text. Every child deserves protection from abuse, so it is good to know the answer that the Ombudsman sent to our inquiry about this, for us, unacceptable practice. To prevent it in other areas, the election campaign for local elections has just begun. Here's what the D.A. says, just a short cut. In many cities and municipalities, it is common practice to include children from kindergartens and schools, various associations and representatives of local authorities who support and assist such actions in joint urban, ecological actions. The meeting of children with the current mayor of Pula and the symbolic joint planting of trees should not, in itself, represent the exploitation of children in political promotion, provided that the party and party membership of the mayor are not highlighted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u27394	Mr. Željko Sačić will be the position of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u27395	I welcome you, Mr. Chairman. Dear secretary, colleagues and colleagues, Croatian public. We are witnessing an unprecedented, incomprehensible violation of the legal procedure of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, an incomprehensible and unsustainable one attack in the worst manner of a terrorist group that wishes to replace the legal order of force overnight with its programme, with its own style of opinion, with the way and with its candidate or candidate for the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. This is inadmissible, we Croatian defenders are appalled by the way in which interest and domination and goals are sought to control the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia as the Supreme Institution of the rule of law and rule of law in the Republic of Croatia. So what message is being sent to the Croatian public if the procedure of the Law on Courts is clearly violated, where the Croatian House of Justice said several years ago it was clearly prescribed both in how and how should candidates, candidates, president of the Supreme Court be registered? The role of the DSV is therefore clearly prescribed when the DSV collects bids, résumés, delivers this on the table of the President of the Republic of Croatia, which then requests the opinion of the General Meeting of the Supreme Court, or the committee of the Assembly, and then submits such a complete request to the plenary session for the decision of the MPs, to us Croatian parliamentarians to bring and to choose a candidate, or to confirm or request a repeat procedure. No, in this case dear friends, we are appalled, the President of the Republic of Croatia is in charge of respecting the Constitution, which has sworn to comply with the Constitution and all the laws, the strictest, most harsh, most insolent violation of the fundamental provisions of this legal system of democracy of the Republic of Croatia. And like some kind of desperados, he throws everything aside and makes his proposal beyond all procedures. He acts like a sheriff in the biggest hole in some wild west and underestimates the Croatian people. We have to stand up to it. Among the 3 candidates so far, we have one excellent, one Croatian defender, Šime Savić, who is a successful doctor of criminal law with an exceptional experience of 15,000 criminal cases has solved, daily 5.6 times in the courtroom who knew in detail what was going on in the Croatian judiciary, what should be changed, what should be improved and put into his program. Dear gentlemen, we are not entering the other candidacys of Mrs. Lidija and their references and Mr. Sesse, but I personally know this man and he is our fellow Croatian defender and has all the references and he today in Croatian society did not deserve so much attention from the President of the Republic of Croatia to respect the procedure. On the contrary, he threw in the mud all the work, life experience, huge effort, industriousness, patriotism of all these proposed candidates, he threw into the trash bin and their life-descriptions, desires, ambitions and I pulled out of his candidate's hat and we should, what? Give yourself to the Supreme Majesty, to Pharaoh in the Republic of Croatia, clap his hand and lift both hands into the air. Mr. Milanovic will not pass, you are in violation of the Constitution, we will do everything to call you off, you will be the first president of the Republic of Croatia to be called off because of the violation of the Constitution because of his dishonesty and unlawfully carrying out his presidential duties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u27459	We move to deliver a position on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives. Mr. Davor Dretar is the first representative of the Homeland Movement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u27460	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, Croatian public. My theme today will be waste management in Krapina-Zagorje County. When we say waste management, we need to be aware that it is neither a delay nor a processing at the Regional Waste Management Centre of Pishkornica. Today, waste management must only be called the kind of responsible treatment that waste converts into some useful forms and returns it to the economic system, either through reuse, as is the case with old or renovated furniture, toys or white technique, recycling, so to recycle plastics, glass, paper and metal, of which, clearly, each goes back to its industry and as a third, composting, which then, of course, is used for agriculture where excellent indicators and examples and cities of Prelog, Krk and Osijek. Only an ignorant or a participant of a customer group can highlight the treatment of garbage at any waste management centre as some achievement of environmental care. The amount of waste that is transported to the County Waste Management Centre Piškornica shows the failure of the waste management system as a whole. Each county has committed to transport its share of waste and, accordingly, participate in costs. Waste management centres, to remind you, are intended for waste treatment and mix all waste, therefore, useful things that can be recycled, such as paper, plastics, metal or glass, biowaste and finally, household, hazardous waste or special categories, such as paints and varnishes, medicines, electronics, cosmetics, glues, chemicals, etc. Such treatment creates waste fuel and inert waste for disposal and very few isolated recycling substances. Due to this simple fact, the establishment of a waste management centre, does not repair the waste management sector, or does not bring it closer to meeting the sectoral targets of 50% recycling by 2020, and since it is clear that we are all in 2021 and that the above objectives have not been met in time, it is only necessary to see who will pay for it, and most likely again the taxpayers of Krapina-Zagorje County. Each waste management centre represents an extremely large investment, as much as half a billion kuna is foreseen for Piškornica. For 5 to 10 times less money, a system of recycling centres for sorters and composts can be built in a gravitating area. So locally without having to transport to remote destinations because Piškornica is far away from Krapina 105, from Kumrovec as much as 138 km and therefore does not respect the principle of proximity when considering waste management options. The mayor who sits in the Piškornica assembly is appointed director and supervisory board, and is in fact in conflict of interest. Because he should represent interests contrary to the interests of this company. The enormous costs of this society are burdened by the citizens of the county and each responsible mayor should and we must advocate the opposite solution. But in half a billion kunas worth investing a lot of fine crumbs from the table, and these crumbs feed two well-known Croatian pets, clientelism and corruption. Here are some publicly available data. The Piškornica spa informed us that a coordinated inspection of the operation of Piškornica was carried out during the period from 25 to 29 January this year. The inspection and therefore 7 of them did not have any objections to the work and condition of the dump. And let me tell you briefly, when the rain rain falls on the garbage, or waste, of course, it creates wastewater, so-called wastewater. the average water that is then taken to two pools of concrete lagoon. How do you keep working with those watery waters? With the pumps and pressure system of the pipeline, the water returns to the body of the dump and is sprayed by the delayed waste. What happens in the seasons of heavy rain when these huge concrete baths fill up to the top, we can only imagine, but they also tell us, there is absolutely no drop of water, neither in the public drain system nor in nature. Let us as a man who wants all the best for the population of Krapina-Zagorian County, put this statement on a serious question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u27461	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Marijana Puljak will be the position of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u27537	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will take the opportunity today to ask myself what is going on with the investment project in a large tourist resort and port in Dugi Rat? The change in the county spatial plan has come to the leaders of the Landmark mysterious fund as a melem on a long-term wound. This mysterious fund is in the process of selling the property of the former factory Dalmatia in bankruptcy and has bought properties and land on which the factory and the space created by the bloating of the slag. At the point where the factory Ferrolegura Dalmatia was once blacked out, the first story was to build an elite tourist resort at 180 000 m2, to invest nearly 300m euros. Before that, it was only necessary to resuscitate the terrain or get rid of the slags. But nearly 15 years have passed since the arrival of the British, long-war postcards have been unchanged, instead of palm trees and fruit cocktails, guests continue to welcome unsanitary slags. It is hard to describe at all what was happening in the past period, Landmark founded the company Colligo, began removing the slag, and announcing a fantastic tourist investment but the story of a hotel settlement seemed to be just a front for exploiting land with a busy and demanding pheromone. The state was not satisfied with what has been done in the Long War and has accused the British-Luxemburg company of not resuscitating the terrain but exploiting it as a source of pherochroms that, after extracting it, sell for what was then written, 2,000 euros per tonne on the world market. That's why they asked Landmark to buy an additional 33,000 m2 of land within the former factory, ask them to pay the concession on maritime well-being and to pay 8% of the total profit each month as long as the exploitation takes place. By the way, Landmark exploited the pheromone without a valid building permit. When the dispute with the state escalated, Landmark simply picked himself up from the Long War with something more and a little more than 100 workers... It ended up at the Employment Service. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The media as one of the possible reasons for leaving are to instruct dissatisfaction with the quantities of pherochoma that managed to get out of the slag. However, after that Landmark is renamed Project UVALA d.o.o., he changed the address of the headquarters in Poljička cesta 133, Dugi Rat, which is the official address of the municipality of Dugi Rat. There's no mention of the company's inscription on that address. The founder of the company is now Topaz Limited from Malta, again an offshore company owned by two offshore other companies based on the Cayman Islands. So far, 8 members of the Management Project Uvala d.o.o., British citizens who visit the municipality once a year and speak the same text have been registered and changed. These people figure out and finance business people who are a front for the right owners. This new company Project Uvala for the purpose of resuscitating the factory circle of the former factory resulted in a locational permit of the then Ministry of Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning and Construction, and real estate in K.o. Duce submitted a request for a building permit to resuscitate the factory circle. At the same time, they have joined the lawless execution of works as part of the planned procedure without obtaining a building permit. On the proposal of the Split DORH, the Government decided in 2017 to make a plea and to sell 28 million kuna land to the company Project Uvala, which was technically then in bankruptcy, which owed 25.3 million kuna to the state on behalf of the unpaid concession and penalties for the illegal exploitation of pherochroms from the cost, which has been published in the factory space in recent years. So how is it possible to make a court deal with a company that is liable to the State for outstanding concessions and penalties? What's the status today? At the location there are two piles, large piles of 10 and 15 meters in total amount of 250 thousand tonnes of processed cost in the southern part of the location you have artificially created a lake from where the excavated cost is, in the central part of the plant for processing the cost, so nowhere is the marina or hotel settlement or cocktail on the beach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u27635	Ljubomir Kolarek will be the position of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u27636	Dear vice president of HS, respected colleagues and colleagues. I would like to highlight a few facts about the role of the Međimurje County in the defence industry. The production of defence-security means requires the use of state-of-the-art technologies since this type of industry does not tolerate half and not complete solutions and products because the products and services of this industrial sector literally save people's lives and seek one maximum field security. The defence security sector itself can form the cornerstone of a competitive economy, and the technologies used in the defence industry certainly encourage the progress of technology and in a part of the industry we call civil industry. This is an example of the use of carbon materials whose development started right out of the defence industry. The Međimurje County, but also the entire area of North Croatia, is ahead of this segment of the economy in the production of protective equipment, specifically protective helmets for the needs of the military and police who are world-renowned and wanted, production of protective work equipment and uniforms, production of specialized tactical jackets, equipment, protective footwear, leather gallery all as I have already said for the needs of police and military. Also if we agree that for each material and technical means used for defence and security it belongs to the defence industry then there is production of residential containers. The defence-security sector of the Republic of Croatia was created in the Homeland War and in the most demanding conditions an enviable supplier base was created which could quickly and effectively respond to the needs of the armed forces on the ground. It is evident for example from other economically successful countries that the financial means to equip their own defence security forces and capacities are maximumly redirected towards the capacity of the economy owner. This strengthens the technological base of developmental research and scientific potential while the own defence security system receives quality means and products in which they have designed and directly participated. Producers in the area of the Međimurje County of the region of the North have just quickly adapted their production processes and technologies to ensure the maximum sufficientness and support of the new set-up system of Homeland Security, which was brought under the government of Andrej Plenkovic. I point out one example, the initial canvas masks should soon be upgraded to the proposal of the National CRO-protective semi-mask project aimed at standardising safety and health. This type of project connects several legal acts, which is the Defence Act, the National Security Strategy, the National Security System Act and the Labour Protection Act, which is also the objective of the Homeland Security System, while at the same time fostering the self-sufficiency of the security system supply and the work on competitiveness within the EU. The defence security industry of Croatia, which is organized within the Croatian defence industry cluster, which has its operational headquarters in the area of Međimurje County, is just an association that gives us the coordination of project proposals and industrial plus related to this segment of industry. I therefore propose to strengthen support for the activities of the competition cluster of the defence industry through key institutions, all in order to strengthen the capacity and competitiveness of companies gathered in this form of association, in particular it will be of great benefit to the new EU instrument, which is the European Defence Fund for the period 2021-2027, which will require a lot of preparation and comprehensive institutional assistance from several ministries and government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u27637	Thank you. And at the end of the day, Marija Selak Rasdic, will be the position of the Club of Representatives of Mosta.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u27705	What about Banovina? Will the Banovina story come to light on a few parliamentary speeches at this time of year on Friday afternoon when most MPs went home? Will there soon cease to be a theme in this final time of assembly speech? What about Banovina? We could have listened that the refinery in Sisak would be re-arranged in a way that would start producing fuel from the same ones who for years with their indifference devastated it to the point that we had reached a potential layoff of nearly 300 workers? Now it's supposed to be restructured. What about Banovina? We have witnessed a great and intense reaction to Croatia's incredible solidarity at the moment when the earthquake happened but now we need something else, we need systematic transparent solidarity where we will discover exactly how much material and immaterial funds donated to Banovina so that we can monitor their flow and not only at the government level where there is some kind of demand for transparency, but also at the level of all other organisations to see where the money will end and also material good Croatian citizens. Right now, we know that's not the case. We're witnessing something else right now. We are witnessing an escalation of the conflict over the cheese reels in Banovina. How is that possible? It is possible that people in Banovina are shooting and shooting because life in containers that we initially warned about in our guidelines of the Banovina renewal strategy is not an adequate life for an individual, let alone for entire families, except that they are life-threatening in containers because it is an air-stricken space that is being checked appropriately, which most probably does not know enough about, can literally lead to a threat to your health. It is expected that people who are not used to living in such a place will quickly start using their insecure homes where they used to live to perform certain functions there because their containers are not enough. The containers were not a good solution at first, it is necessary to access the construction of sustainable settlements that are also funded by EU funds and which can later be refurbished to nursing homes or something else that meets the needs of the region. People are shooting, yeah, people are shooting for cheese rolls because we weren't looking at transparency and solidarity at first and people aren't just shooting at what we were able to see on TV. At first, I warned of a large number of escalation of family violence that we can assume will happen in Banovina because it was hit twice by not only the COVID crisis but also by current earthquakes. Unfortunately, my hunches have been given concrete confirmation in the latest MUP data in a comparative analysis in January and February of last year compared to this year. This analysis shows that there is an increase in the total number of perpetrators by 8.7% compared to last year but also of victims by as much as 40.3% of domestic violence. What does that mean? This means if we bear in mind that at Croatian level, the crime rate has dropped 11%, it is almost 50% increase in domestic violence. Are we waiting for someone to kill themselves and someone to kill someone to get the institutions to react? This also means that a small number of perpetrators are far more victims, that there is no quality system of resociation or prevention and that these same individuals are now attacking entire families and not just individual members. Since the number of violations is higher than the number of crimes, this means that there is a danger that police do not recognize the correct forms of violence on the ground. Are we really waiting for someone to kill someone in Banovina to finally respond?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u27706	Thank you. On Wednesday, March 17th, we continue to work and the first item will be the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Croatian Defence from the Homeland War and members of their families, meaning in the first reading, that is the law no. 122. Thank you very much. Have a nice weekend. Session interrupted at 13.12 p.m. Mr. Hrelja, Silvano Hrelja will be the position of the Club of Representatives of HSS and HSU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u27792	My colleagues and colleagues. Half the time doesn't mean half the man, half the citizen, half the rights. Retired people don't work for up to four hours while taking a pension out of entertainment but out of need. It's our job to provide them with the same conditions as the workers in less than four hours. She's writing me a pensioner and she's asking for an opinion. I worked for 22 months at half the time, and all that time there was paid contributions to pension, health insurance and taxes, and I paid all that for 44 years of work. On February 3rd, 2021, I ended up in isolation for 14 days because my husband got covid, after the insulating of the stamps and the confirmation of a renowned commercial company sent to HZZO to pay for my sick leave I had an unpleasant surprise, an HZZO employee informed me that I had no right to be sick because I am more than 65 years old, on my request that they didn't mind that I had more than 65 years of age when I was 22 months old. You're making contributions? Uncomfortable silence. For 44 years, I've paid my contributions, I've paid extra health care and plus as a pensioner, and after all, I don't have the right to be sick. Please warn retired people who work part-time that they're actually being punished for actually being chargers of the budget. So I was in isolation from February 3rd to February 17th 2021, the labor contract was terminated on February 20th, 2021. One more thing, I wasn't in isolation by my own free will. Is that a message for people not to be in isolation? Of course, it's not HZZO's employee's fault, but the injustice has been done again, made to the pensioners. It is my opinion that the pensioner should have the right to be sick because she gives it, that right gives her the Labour Act and the Labour Contract because she is a four-hour worker in a working relationship with the right to stay is the right and for a working relationship. HZZO does not have the right to arbitrate, however, sick leave until 42 days goes to the employer's burden and, if and when they have been misused, HZZO has a system of disease control. How efficient he is, you can talk about it, but there is. I also resent the Committee on the Legislatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and of the Parliament that, when amending and supplementing the law, they do not see a wider picture and do not insist that all laws governing individual rights of pensioners or pensioners and workers be amended at the same time. This is how we have absurd situations under certain laws, so we stimulate the pensioners to work on pensions because we lack workers, because we import labour, we stimulate them not to leave the world of work until the 70s, women up to 68 years old, and to make a bonus of as much as 20.4% higher pensions, but, well, after 65 years, they can't, they're forbidden to use sick leave and they have a contract not indefinitely but they have a contract that points out at a certain time that is almost impossible to manipulate. Let's go, let's go, let's get out of this stalemate position. All legal experts wherever they are, install a little life into the laws, look at the whole. They are not citizens because of you, us and the law, but to use the rights that come from the law without restriction and equally and justly. And already once, let's get this over with, why should the Republic of Croatia always get those who want, want or have to work harder and better? Why don't we respect them? Why don't we open all their doors and respect their rights? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u27824	Mr. Davor Find will stand as an independent representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u27825	I thank the chairman. Now, before I go, I have to commend my colleague Krelj, I think he really sent a quality message about how underpriced those who are really working in this society are, but now he'd be moving on to those topics that he'd like to say today, and that's the first thing, so the problem of the carrier in the occasional transport of passengers. So we have a situation that like many others because of the crown crisis, for some time their work was banned and most of the remaining time simply because tourism stopped, because everything else was closed, there was simply absolutely no possibility of them generating revenues. Now comes the period when you simply highlight the moratorium that they have at leasing houses and it's in a very awkward time when it's right before the season and the question arises if they are brought into a situation that at this point their leasing houses begin to take away buses, how much will they actually be able to do this season and how many people will end up on the street? So I think maybe we should think about how to solve this problem, let them still generate some income through the season so that we can pay back our commitments because I think it's in the interest that everyone is interested in the commitments they've accumulated so far, that they come back and not that the companies fail and that this debt actually remains unpaid. The alternative is if nothing is done so potentially that they protest again, that we have during the roadblock season, and we think that in a difficult situation like this, it's not something we need as a country. So I hope that there will still be hearing from the ruling, that some solution will be found. The second topic you'd like to talk about is the recovery after the earthquake. So, we have a situation that here it is at the door a year after the earthquake in Zagreb and no other building has been renovated under the Rehabilitation Act. So I stress, no single building has been restored under that law. And not only has no building been renovated, but it's not actually approved for any request to tear down buildings that are for demolition. So a year after the earthquake nothing happened, it was confirmed by Minister Horvat the other day, with his statement that no such request has therefore been approved. So the real question is what is the biggest disaster in this country. Whether the major disaster is an earthquake or a major disaster is the work of the Croatian government and the Croatian administration. I would remind myself that I could, therefore, have been in this House, very little, but there were those of us who pointed out that a different approach could be chosen, a different path, to allow citizens to get to the funds needed for restoration as quickly as possible, and in such a scenario, they would have certainly been restored by now, not only to go, but to last, the weaker the damaged objects would have certainly already been restored. However, those who strongly supported this bill, which was later voted upon, actually bear responsibility for the situation which is now, behold, a year after the earthquake, unfortunately people still do not have renewed properties, many public buildings are still not restored and who knows when it will finally start. There's nothing left for us but to keep believing in the word and the fund and the ministries and the others that here, only it isn't, but it's about to. I hope that we all learned something from this, and that the next time, and sooner or later, some disaster will happen again, that then we will all be wiser and will still be seen which solution is best and most efficient, with which people can be helped as quickly as possible, rather than looking towards populism, in terms of the state will pay everything, in times when the state has no money and when it is clear that the administration is not able to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u27826	Thank you, too. Let's move on with: - Final proposal of the Law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Spain and the Government of the Kingdom of Spain on the mutual protection of classified data, second reading, P.Z. No. 120. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of HS. That Article of the Rules of Procedure provides that the laws on which international contracts are confirmed in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia are to be adopted as a rule in one reading. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. With us is Mr. Juro Martinovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and Administration, who will have an opening on this law, that is, the view of his ministry and government on this law, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u38985	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. Dear MPs and MPs, you have before you the Act on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Kingdom, the Government of the Kingdom of Spain and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the Mutual Protection of Classified Data. The legal framework for the regulation of this matter is the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Law on the conclusion and implementation of international contracts and the Rules of Procedure of the HS. On this matter, the constitution says that international agreements after the signing, after ratification, thus confirming in parliament, publication and entry into force become part of the internal legal order, are above the law. This contract was signed on 15.12 last year. In order to produce legal between the parties and to become part of the domestic law of the Republic of Croatia, your confirmation must pass in the assembly. And that's why I'm here as a representative of the government to come along with you to that goal, so to confirm this contract. What is this contract about? The contract therefore establishes a legal framework to ensure the protection of classified data common to be created or exchanged between Contracting Parties, lays down identical degrees of secrecy, obligations relating to national measures for the protection of classified data, the competent authorities for the implementation of the contract, the mechanisms for the transfer of classified data, as well as the handling of classified data, contain specific provisions on classified contracts, regulates the way in which visits are made, the handling of security violations, as well as the issue of costs incurred in the implementation of the contract. The vice-president of the assembly said in the introduction, so the way in which the contracts are normally handled before the HS was arranged by the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure say such contracts are passed, such laws are passed in one reading, which I am proposing to you as a representative of the government at the moment. Here, that's what I considered relevant in the introduction to say before you guys went to the discussion and possibly some questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u38986	Yeah, there's a replica. Ma'am... What? - Mrs. Crescent. Mariana Petir, here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u38987	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Secretary of State, I am interested, do we have such contracts on the protection of classified data concluded with other EU Member States and on the basis of the review you possess, has there been any breach of such contracts so far and, if so, in particular, in what cases? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u38988	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u38989	... These contracts are the National Security Council. [[Specially enabled.]] The contract collection is kept at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and that is all I can say at this time as a representative of the Government, so I am not aware that there have been violations of these contractual obligations, so they could be violated by the members of the Contracting Party and no one else, therefore, and one and the other have committed themselves to the contract and the aim is therefore to protect classified data in business, political and any communication between the States, so to prevent classified data from reaching unwanted third parties. Here, that's what I can tell you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u38990	Thank you, too. - Mrs. Crescent. Anita Pocrnic Radošević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u38991	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. You mentioned that the Office of the National Security Council is a national security authority responsible for the implementation and supervision of the law in question between the Republic of Spain and the Kingdom of Spain, which are legal or natural persons who have at all the possibility and capacity to access such classified information, i.e. what specific data would be exchanged, which would be made through such speeches? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u38992	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u38993	In the introduction, therefore, it is classified data, which are common to communication, legal, political, economic, therefore, in all these segments there are some data which are considered not to be available for political, security, business reasons in the preparation of certain agreements, and even after signing the agreement, therefore there would not be any contractual parties of interest to reach third parties. It is simply something that in a civilised world and business and political, therefore, both military and legal there is as a need to communicate that some data be separated and kept secret for the parties.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u38994	Thank you. Mr. Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u38995	Dear Secretary of State, I am interested in how regulated relations have so far been in this matter, with, say, the Kingdom of Spain, and why is this Treaty signed only now, let's say, bilateral relations with the Kingdom of Spain, since their recognition dates back to the 1990s, so I am quite interested in how it was regulated before the signing of this Treaty? Here, so much for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u38996	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u38997	So what I can confidently tell you, therefore, is that we have recently confirmed a similar agreement with Portugal, so, but the states always have these things arranged, so we are the state that was created in the 1990s and so when several countries in this area came into existence, we are, by international public law, essentially the followers and many contracts that the country has had with other countries. So there's never any deregulation complete in such a situation. Why didn't it go any faster in order in this bilateral way, I can't say, but I don't think there's anything spectacular here new. These are some standards of international relations, interstate relations, which existed and we are now sorting them out as a created state with one country at a time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u38998	Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u38999	Dear Secretary, here, just to point out that this is not only about the data that arises in mutual communication but also about the classified data that arises within the country and are available in other countries because of some common interests, so that these data must also be protected because some countries need to access classified data from other countries. That's one thing. The second thing, we talked about it last time, we made the same law about the state of Portugal, and I asked you then if there was any possibility of a unified agreement between all EU members and I was told there was a possibility. Now we see, here, after a few weeks, we bring it back, or we confirm the agreement with Spain, does this mean that we will now confirm these contracts with all EU countries?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39000	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39001	You asked, I'd say, on one principle logical level. Of course, we as a member that many things we are practically becoming more and more a single legal framework in the EU. But in these things there are specificities of every country, so where you can't find the full protection of the so-called team. multilateral agreements, contracts, then go to the bilateral, to make something more concrete. That's what I can tell you, but that's how it is in reality and legal order.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39002	And at the end of the day, Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39003	Thank you, Chairman. Here, I express a strong remark to the way in which you put together the reasoning of this law. In fact, its content does not show whether the procedure for the conclusion of this Treaty respects the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Croatia and is in fact frantic with which the MPs in this HS can easily go through such situations. I'm going to keep on asking Mr. Troscott's question, and I shouldn't have asked him in the replica if you'd given that answer in an explanation. Namely, the Law on the Implementation of International Contracts says that it must be known who gave the incentive to conclude an international contract, who made the decision, the President of the State or Government, the assessment of the situation so far, the reasons why it is proposed, the composition of the delegation, my question to you, who was in the delegation and who made the decision in the delegation given that this contract was signed by the head of the National Security Council Office?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39004	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39005	Dear MPs, all of the international agreements under the Constitution, you have certainly looked at it, signed by the President of the State or Government, and it is specified by the Constitution and by the Law on the conclusion and implementation of international contracts that sign it. Of course, this contract was also concluded in the proper procedure, so whoever signed it acted as government commissioner.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39006	Thanks, you don't have any more replicas. Thank you very much, Mr. Martinovic. Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? No, I don't. The first is Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic in front of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns. He's gone. He's losing his right. The second is Mr. Davor Dretar, the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club, please. ... Yeah, the Homeland Movement. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Yes, yes, please. [[Intruder Dretar: That's the one.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39007	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Secretary of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Short and clear, in accordance with Rule 207 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the laws confirming international contracts are generally adopted in one reading and the adoption process is initiated by the submission of the final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the International Treaty. According to the principle of monoism in the Republic of Croatia, ratified international contracts are part of the legal order of the Republic of Croatia and within the legal force above the law. also, by adopting the Law on the Confirmation of the International Treaty, the same entry into force. Content of the international agreement is agreed between the competent authorities of the Republic of Spain and the adoption of the Law on the approval of an international contract between the Government of the Republic of Spain and the Government of the Kingdom of Spain on the mutual protection of classified data, the same becomes part of the legal order of the Republic of Croatia. Following the conclusion of the contract mentioned above, the adoption of the said law is a formal legal process, so there is no dispute over the content of the contract itself, so the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club will support this law or confirm the contract mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39008	Thank you, too. Now it's Mr. Zvonimir Troscott's turn in front of the Club of Representatives of the Bridge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39009	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs and dear Croatian peoples who follow us all through the screen. I would not go so far into the formality of this law but I would like to highlight all the things in which we have very good bilateral actually with the Kingdom of Spain and we have a very good parliamentary diplomacy with that country. We share the same principles and objectives, we are Mediterranean countries together, and we are faced with the same challenges as migration, climate change and the fight against terrorism that can all be the elements of these contracts that we are considering today. A large part of our economy depends on tourism, the sector and one and the other country has hit a serious pandemic of the coronary virus and damaged all these economic branches, meaning especially tourism. The Spanish companies are present on the Croatian market, and therefore I have asked the secretary of state for some time, and since the economy is something that can be included in the category of classified data, the question is that, given that the Kingdom of Spain has invested several dozen million kunas in Croatia, which is why we are only now signing such a contract, without a view of what we have left, so from the previous state, it is a little odd that only in 2021 we are signing these contracts and Spain has invested several dozen million kunas. What's more important, so we have only a growing UT industry that breaks into global markets, for example INFOBIP, which could certainly be one of the companies that could break into the Spanish market which could also get into such contracts classified on the third hand, what we see as another branch links with the Kingdom of Spain are business schools, business schools and business schools for the reason that Spain has one of the best international schools in that category of financial Times, so here we also see the opportunity for this cooperation and especially in the area of security and migration. So one and the other countries we're facing are the impact of migration waves and Spain's there has great experience, especially from Africa so that these data exchanges definitely need to be classified. What is the only question of the Mosta is why now and that such practices will be implemented with other EU countries? And we ask why now because since the 1990s we have been independent, Spain has recognised us as a country and only in 2021 do we sign such an important contract. That's it from the Bridge Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39010	Thank you. Mr. Niksha Vukas will speak in front of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39011	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, a respected representative. Cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and the Kingdom of Spain in the field of exchange of classified data is based on common interests and on the development of relations between the two countries in the field of information security as well as in other areas of international cooperation. Following this, it was estimated that there was a need to regulate cooperation between the Kingdom of Spain and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, on 15 December, a contract was signed between the two countries on the mutual protection of classified data establishing a legal framework in the relations between the Republic of Spain and establishing rules for the mutual protection of classified data relating to future cooperation contracts, classified contracts, contracts concluded by the Contracting Parties, which contain or include classified data. In addition to the establishment of the aforementioned legal framework for the protection of classified data that are common or exchanged between the Contracting Parties, competent authorities for the implementation of the contract are determined, the same shall be specified as those of confidentiality and treatment of classified data, obligations relating to national measures for the protection of classified data, mechanisms for the transfer of classified data, specific provisions on classified contracts are contained, arrangements for the achievement of visits and meetings of experts, the handling of security violations and the cost of the contract are regulated. So far, the Republic of Croatia has signed 20 bilateral agreements on the exchange and protection of classified data with EU and other countries and have led to the exchange of classified data by respecting the highest standards in their protection. Following this, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party's Social Democratic Party Club, we support the adoption of this law aimed at strengthening the protection of classified data that come together during co-operation or are exchanged between the Republic of Spain and the Republic of Spain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39012	You, too. Mrs Dalia Oreskovic will speak in front of the Centre and GLAS Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39013	Dear President, fellow MPs and MPs, the way we implement the constitution and the laws shows that we are as a state unfinished project. The Constitution itself has a poorly designed and undeveloped relationship between the President of the Republic and the Government, and every time it discusses international agreements in this Croatian Assembly, the Croatian Parliament pretends that there is no obvious problem counting on the general public with this problem not being too familiar and is not interested in its examination. But it doesn't justify our behavior in any way. These days a lot is said about some other powers of the President of the Republic, and I will just remind you that the Constitution must not be treated as if it were a Swedish table and we will only take from it what we like. So, when we look at how the reasoning of this act is drawn up, it says in the introduction the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law. And then there's the assessment of the situation and the goal that law-making wants to achieve. The need for an international exchange of information set out in national law by a certain degree of secrecy is an expression of the one hand the close foreign policy relations between countries for their mutual and coherent action to address modern obvious security problems. So it's obviously a foreign policy issue. It is also said that cooperation between the Republic of Spain and the Kingdom of Spain in the field of exchange of classified data is based on common interests and the development of relations between the two countries in the field of information security. Another confirmation that it's a foreign policy issue. So this is actually totally undeniable. I wonder how we came to these conclusions. Well, then I'll say as one of our journalists likes to say, let's take the lead. This Regulation shall enter The constitution of the Republic of Croatia says the president represents and represents the Republic of Croatia in the country and abroad. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Constitution, the President of the Republic and the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall cooperate in the design and implementation of foreign policy. This Regulation shall enter into force on the The Constitution, which also has regard to the subject matter of this law, is highly relevant, the President of the Republic and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in accordance with the Constitution and the law, cooperate in directing the work of security services. This Regulation shall enter The constitution says the government of the Republic of Croatia is leading foreign and internal politics. And what does the '96 law tell us about how the process of preparing and concluding international contracts is done? First of all, Article 6 states that the incentive to initiate the procedure for the conclusion of international contracts can be given by state bodies in their area of work. In the light of this act, the Croatian Parliament has not received information on who has given the incentive to conclude this contract and we really do not know why we have such a bilateral agreement with the Kingdom of Spain, and let's say we do not have it with other EU Member States. So, I'd like to know that information as a parliamentary representative. It is then said in Article 7 that the decision to initiate the procedure for the conclusion of international contracts shall be taken by the President of the Republic or by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So I ask the question why in this document we don't have information about who made this decision, whether it exists or whether it was taken in some kind of process of co-creation of foreign policy as it says in the Constitution. So, the mystic word I haven't seen in the Croatian political legal space is exactly that co-creation of foreign policy. Do we have it at all, if we have it, has it ever been created between any of the presidents of the state and the Prime Minister? And how long are we going to ignore the fact that this word co-creation in the reality of political life actually doesn't exist? This shall be accompanied by the other provisions of Article 7. Laws on the conclusion and execution of international contracts. Therefore, it is clearly said that whoever makes the decision to access the conclusion of a certain international contract, which may be either the Government or the President of the Republic, also states an assessment of the current relations with that foreign country or the international organisation, so Mr Troscott would not have to ask this question in the replica, because we would have some kind of act from which that information would already be available for days. It would then state the reasons why an international contract is proposed, then the composition of the delegation, then the proposal for the power to sign the contract and a whole set of other useful information. This contract is specific in that it was signed by the head of the National Security Council Office, and I therefore find that the minimum information that HS should have in the course of the discussion on the confirmation of the contract is to verify whether the draft provisions of the Constitution and the law are in place in the context of the development and conclusion of the draft. And our usual practice, all of our parliamentary deputies, is when some international contract comes that needs to be confirmed in the HS procedure, to simply say it's something that came to our table and we're only expected to pass the law. I object to such practice, and I call on HS to consider whether the time has matured to amend certain provisions of the Constitution or to be further elaborated by a special law, but I would not like it to happen again that we will say something here we have worked out by law as a lower act and we will conclude that it is contrary to the Constitution that never applies in practice. So as long as we treat the fundamental documents of this country as I was saying, we will remain as a state unfinished project in which we cannot actually exercise control in which way the top government respects the state in which it behaves high public duties, and that is not the sense of democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39014	In front of the HDZ Representatives' Club, Mr. Ivan Budelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39015	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State. Here is a proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Spain and the Government of the Kingdom of Spain on the mutual protection of classified data. The classified information shall be such as to indicate the degree of secrecy of the competent authority in the prescribed procedure as well as the information submitted by the Republic of Croatia to the other State, international organisation or institution with which the Republic of Croatia cooperates. Each country shall ensure that certain information or knowledge of something is protected by its legal regulations. The issue of secrecy in the Republic of Croatia by 2007 it has been regulated by the Data Protection Act which provides for the concept, type and degree of secrecy and the measures and procedures for the identification, use and protection of classified information. However, due to a number of degrees that were not in line with the EU and NATO Member States in 2007. the Data Securitisation Act shall enter into force. In the context of the establishment and development of international cooperation, the Republic of Croatia shall enter into international agreements on the mutual protection of classified data, which, in addition to the establishment of equivalent security measures, include provisions on the protection of the right of ownership of data. The need for an international exchange of information or material classified under national law is one under the law of defined degrees of secrecy, a principle expression of close foreign-political relations between states and an increased need for mutual and coordinated action to address sovereign particularly security problems that often exceed national frameworks with their exchanges and completeness. This bill creates a legal framework and establishes rules for the mutual protection of classified data in the relations between the Republic of Croatia and Spain relating to the future of classified cooperation agreements, which contain or include classified data. The Republic of Spain has been working bilaterally with the Kingdom of Spain since 1992. when diplomatic relations were established. One of the first contracts is to establish cooperation in the field of tourism between the two countries, and to date cooperation has been established in different areas, from tourism, culture and education to security issues. The Treaty lays down a legal framework for the protection of classified data common to be generated or exchanged between the Contracting Parties, the competent authorities for the implementation of the contract are designated, the equivalent degrees of secrecy, the treatment of classified data, the obligations relating to national measures for the protection of classified data, the mechanisms for the transfer of classified data, the necessary provisions on classified contracts are contained, the arrangements for the achievement of visits and meetings of experts, the procedures for breach of security as well as the issues of costs incurred in the implementation of the contract. On behalf of the HDZ Club, we will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39016	You, too. And we move on to individual debates, Mr. Zeljko Pavić is up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39017	The Honorable Chairman, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here, I would just once again draw attention to some problems that might arise in the application of that contract or the law. In fact, I have already noted in the replica that this is not only about the data that arises in mutual communication but also about the data that is exchanged between them, but it is about the state that is actually in the bilateral contract. There are problems here that can be resolved relatively simply as some agreements can be signed, so that data already classified in one of the Member States or one of the signatories can be classified in a way that is appropriate both in that country and in the countries of Europe. For example. I'll tell you one case we had in Croatia ten years ago. One KBC classified its data as classified and then all the systems that entered along with this KBC into the same computer system actually had the same degree of secrecy. And of course there was a problem in manipulation with that data, or in... these data, until this problem was solved that the KBC agreed that this degree of secrecy should be reduced to a lower level so that other KBCs can work normally and that information systems can work without additional protection and additional controls that are normally needed for information systems that process and use classified systems. This should also be considered in Croatia to make this a little bit of a different control. We have the Data Protection Act so that the law is already quite regulated, and we have a control agency, so I think we're going to solve one big part of that problem. And what we haven't solved before will be solved when we find the problem. What concerns me a little, and that's what I said the last time we passed a law that was tied to a contract with Portugal, it's about art. Paragraphs 5, 3 and 4. Paragraph 3 shows that access to classified data is accessible to persons who, in accordance with national laws and regulations, are granted access to classified information of the same degree of secrecy which is actually okay and there are no problems in this regard. 4. says each party to this contract will recognise the assurances of a security check for persons who should access the data. Now, here's the thing about art. 3., of course, they have the right to access that person's data, but last time I asked if it is possible to sign an agreement and to put it in the next law, that persons who cooperate on international projects, who have to access classified data that are not of national interest, means data that are not of national interest to allow those checks that have been passed in the country not to go through again. In fact, it often happens to our citizens who and the experts working on projects somewhere in the EU that when they participate in these projects and need to access classified data afterwards, the country in which a new check is being sought, a security check in the country of origin or in Croatia, which also causes trauma to those experts who do so with their families and I think it would be easy to resolve if such an agreement were to be entered into by Mr. Secretary. Last time you said the same thing, it would be settled, but I can see that in this contract it wasn't settled. And what I'm also worried about is in art. 5th century. 9th century. "if any other contract between the parties contains stricter provisions concerning the exchange or protection of classified data, those provisions apply," so now is not the time to define that contract which will have certain provisions and that we no longer need to think about any other contracts. What kind of contracts would that be to go past this law? I don't understand that Art. 9. Five, if you could take a look at that and explain it a little later? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39018	Thank you. Stay, Mrs. Petir asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39019	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm not sure if I understand correctly, so I'd like to ask you for an explanation within the framework of your presentation. You said that those persons who have already been authorised in their country to access classified data and access that data in another Member State with which the contract is concluded should not be re-entered by the verification system. I'm not sure if I understood what you were saying, what do you mean? If we have classified data that are defined by law and there's a way of treating them, so we can't give them to anyone who remembers. So I think these individuals have to go through certain approval procedures so that these data can be accessed and to make sure that these data are not misused.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39020	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39021	Yeah, I didn't say that, I was just quoting an article. 5th century 3. which states that access shall be granted by persons who, in accordance with national laws and regulations, are allowed access to classified data and that the Member States or both parties which have signed this contract will recognise the security verification carried out in that State. And I said that the problem if you access data that's not of national interest, so you have data that are classified and really not of national interest, and you need to use it in your projects, I'm talking about IT projects, then the state where you're working is looking for a security check again from the Republic of Croatia. This security check is often of the highest degree, and believe me, it's not very pleasant for a person who's being checked, and for her family. So I asked that such agreements be signed and that people have no problem working on these projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39022	Thank you. No more replicas, thank you very much. And now, finally, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Mr. Ivan Budelic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39023	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues. Here, I mentioned earlier that the framework for the establishment and development of interstate cooperation between the Republic of Croatia concluded international agreements, agreements on mutual protection of classified data, which, in addition to establishing equivalent security measures, includes provisions on the protection of the right of ownership of data. During this debate and the one we had before, it is important to point out that in the 10th meeting of HS we have already passed such a law regarding the Republic of Portugal. Apart from Portugal, the Republic of Portugal has such contracts, such as Austria, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Estonia, France, Finland, Lithuania, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Sweden, Luxembourg and Italy. The Treaty between the Republic of Spain and the Kingdom of Spain on the mutual protection of classified data is the result of good cooperation between the two countries in the field of exchange of classified data and is based on common interests and the development of relations between the two countries in the field of security, as well as in other areas of interstate cooperation. It is known to everyone that the information is the data of the assumption of economic social development, but also of political stability. For example, economic information on market needs today is as important as ever, as was the case with raw materials. After all that has been said in the course of the debate, on this bill, I once again express my support for the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39024	Finally, on behalf of the promoter, the secretary of state, Mr. Juro Martinovic, will speak finally. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39025	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear MPs and MPs, so thank you for your constructive and good discussions. I have to say that this is one, I would say, technical law although every such international contract has its own political dimension, of course and legal, but this is the primary and most important, one security aspect and I would say as here, not as a representative of the government but as a citizen, I think we have to trust our institutions that in this segment they have done what is optimally legal, therefore security-lawfully, and even politically in this situation possible. We must say in relation to what the distinguished representative Dalia Oreshkovic said, so in relation to the position, the constitutional position of the Prime Minister, the parliament, I really did not come here to talk about it, but since her discussion could conclude that something was done incognito here, that something was done, to hide from the president of the state, I think it was completely missed, completely wrong, the constitutional norm said that after this ratification and all the contracts being ratified, the president of the state signed the document before the publication in the National Journal. For your knowledge, therefore, this contract has not come into force, by adopting this law, when it is passed, this contract will not yet enter into force, only when it is signed by the President of the State, when it is published in the National Journal, when the Governments exchange notes through foreign affairs, this Treaty will enter into force and produce legal effects between the Contracting Parties, but also our legal framework. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39026	Thank you. Stay, we have a replica. The first replica was asked for by Mrs. Devereaux. Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39027	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the HS, Secretary of State, you have said well that it is very important that we trust our security system because it is a very integral part of preserving the sovereignty and national security of the state. The criticisms that sometimes come here are completely unwarranted because exactly what you said is that the president of the state is the one who will eventually sign this law. But what I am interested in, when you have already touched and referred to the situation in which we are today about the appointment of the election is actually the President or President of the Supreme Court, do you feel that everyone in the state, from a simple citizen to a top political official, is obliged to uphold the law and the Constitution?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39028	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39029	Dear Representative Petyr. So today I'm here with you in HS as a representative of the government to discuss one item on the agenda, and she's the law on confirming this Treaty and I wouldn't come out of that framework. I am convinced of this subject which you in some way encourage me to say, that the top of our policy, the top of our country, will find an adequate best solution for the fate of the Republic and the judiciary, as such since there is one mistrust in that branch of the state government system, as one particular, third branch of government, and I am convinced that there is both will and political wisdom that it will find the best solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39030	- Mrs. Crescent. Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39031	Dear fellow Martinovic. You keep avoiding the question I keep asking, not just you. So it's no problem who will end up signing this Act when it comes into force, I'm talking about a process that is prescribed and defined by the Constitution before we even come to the stage to discuss in HS a draft of an international agreement and my explicit question to you was, and you didn't give an answer to it, so who made the decision, who chose the delegation and whether the President of the Republic was involved in this whole process so far and why, if so, we don't even have those documents described and listed in the explanation of how this bill came about.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39032	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39033	Dear MPs, so I came out here first of all to say finally for the reason that you were saying some things that might lead to the misthinking of Croatian citizens who are less than you and parliamentary representatives referred to in the procedure. The legal explanation of this bill is as classic as any other document, you're talking about what preceded it, so what I know, Parliament, parliamentary deputies don't participate in these previous procedures, but just like this in the final procedures and what you're taking here in Parliament is the position of spokeswoman, the President of the State, I don't mind but I'm not willing to show it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39034	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Credentials. Nuts.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39035	Injury. In 238, in a way, by saying that I represent the speaker of the President of the State here, for me is an insult, I am here a spokesman for the provisions of the Constitution and I repeat from the beginning and at the beginning, co-creation of foreign policy by me means that two people sat down at the table and made some arrangements, yes or no. That's the answer you keep avoiding.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39036	Thank you very much, you know that the replica was better than I was, so I'm gonna have to warn you. Mr. Zeljko Pavić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39037	The Honorable Chairman, dear secretary. Since I'm late for the closing statement, here's just to confirm that the SDP club will vote in favour of the law. We believe that the institutions on both sides have certainly done their job well and that they are taking care of both national security within their country and national security in another country and within the EU, and we believe that this law that will be implemented will have a good impact on the exchange of such data and there will be no problems. What I asked you in my debate and last time, I asked you today, if you can make it easier for our fellow citizens and our experts working on projects and accessing these data, to make it easier with some agreement not to go through security checks again for what should not be passed. That's all the application was about that access to that data.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39038	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39039	So I didn't say, I'm not competent in any way to promise and then tomorrow affect these processes, these processes are standardised, they're I'd say, highly standardized and strongly prescribed given the matter they're processing and I'm sure they're... made in the best faith, in the best way to preserve what is classified, and what needs to be delivered to the citizens has been delivered. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So at this point, we are working on the Law on the right to access information, we are doing one piece of work, and this law is very, very, very powerfully allowing citizens to come to all the information produced by the public sector, especially where public funds are being spent. I think we're very transparent here and I can't say more than that, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39040	Thank you. And finally, Mr. Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39041	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, I agree with you that this is a law that, by its own standard, is more technical, there have been some discussions that have applied to one other law, it is the law on the conclusion and execution of international contracts, of course it is legitimate but it was not the subject of today's agenda point. But since the issue of creating or co-creating foreign policy has already been raised, it may not be too bad to say that internal policy has its own dynamics, its differences, but the Republic of Croatia has only one foreign policy on the outside, one example was this. A conference on the anniversary of the Dayton Agreement when the premiums were explicitly said, he speaks on behalf of the President and on behalf of the government, so the Republic of Croatia has only one foreign policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39042	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39043	Well, I don't have... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39044	Thank you very much, no more replicas. I have to say, please, I have to tell Mr. Stier that it was out of the question and I have to intervene myself, but it's still an international contract that's the result and that law you're talking about, but still it's an international contract, so no one went off topic. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. After this item of the agenda which is last today, we will have a speech of clubs, a statement of opinion of clubs and representatives. So be prepared that will probably be an hour ago. And that's a long time ago. So now: - Report on the work of the European Affairs Committee for 2019 Carrier: The Committee on European Affairs is the holder of the Committee on European Affairs on the basis of Article. 65. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? We have the chairman of the European Affairs Committee, Mr. Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39047	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and fellow MPs. So, before us is the report on the work of the European Affairs Committee for 2019. It is as the chairman has said, on a report submitted by the Committee in accordance with the obligation of the Article. 65. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and in the 5th such report submitted to the Assembly since the establishment of the European Affairs Committee in July 2013. The 2011 report was adopted by the Committee on 8 May 2020 but it was not discussed with the Assembly for the disbanding of the 9th Assembly. Following the constitution of the 10th meeting of the Croatian Parliament, the appointment of the President, Vice-President and members of the Committee on European Affairs, the Committee decided on 2 November 2020 to re-enter the procedure for its work for 2019. First of all, because at the plenary session we would not have to express a hole in my reports, but this is also a good opportunity to discuss again in front of the Croatian public and the interested public what our committee is doing and how we monitor European affairs in the Croatian Parliament. The Committee will present a new report for 2020 soon, and some data relating to the first 5 months of 2020 are already contained in part of the 2019 report on the preparation and implementation of the parliamentary dimension of the Croatian Presidency to the EU Council. But since 2019 was also marked by preparations, we think it is also important to underline. Although we did not know that in 2019 it was the last year of the usual functioning of the board, given that extraordinary circumstances already took place in March 2020. From the perspective of the 2019 Committee, it was marked by intensive preparations for the implementation of the parliamentary dimension of the Croatian Presidency of the EU Council in particular in the second half of the year. In addition to those preparations, the usual activities of the Committee have been continued. Regular sessions were held, members participated in a series of bilateral and multilateral international activities and the committee continued with active, activities of pardon related to the coordination and implementation of European affairs in the Croatian Parliament. Since this is the first report in this session, allow me to repeat a few basic information on the Committee on European Affairs. The Committee, by entering the EU, instead of the previous European Integration Committee in order to become a Committee on European Affairs in accordance with the usual parliamentary practice in the Member States. The powers and part-time work of the Committee are laid down by law on the cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the European affairs of the Parliamentary Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Committee which we adopted at the 1st session of the Committee in this meeting in July 2020. Therefore, it is certainly one of the specialities of our committee since its work is regulated and special law, but the only committee that has its own Rules of Procedure. The Committee on European Affairs has a president, 2 vice presidents and 14 members and is the only working body with 2 vice presidents, one of whom is elected from the ruling and the other from the opposition. The Committee also has 6 members appointed from the order of public, scientific and professional staff. Most generally speaking, the performance of European affairs involves the activities of the parliaments stemming from Croatia's EU membership. Depending on whether the Committee on European Affairs acts directly to the European Commission and other EU institutions or to the Government, which then participates in decision-making in European institutions, the performance of European affairs can be divided directly and indirectly. Indirect implementation of European affairs concerns procedures through which the Council oversees the government's activities in European institutions and is primarily about considering the position of the Republic of Croatia on EU documents as well as national positions for EU Council meetings. The direct implementation of European affairs concerns direct communication between parliaments and EU institutions. In 2019, the European Affairs Committee held a total of 16 sessions of which 3 were thematic. This is also about EU development policy, European research on values and the results of the study Destination of the EU Youth Future in Croatia. From the remaining meetings, it should be pointed out that 3 were linked to preparations for the implementation of the parliamentary dimension of the Croatian Presidency of the EU Council. During the year in question, the European Affairs Committee discussed a total of 32 views on EU legislative proposals and reached just as many conclusions on positions. Of these 32 positions, 18 were related to the work programme for 2018 and 14 to the work programme for 2019. Namely, as I said and when we present a work programme on a committee that we have recently adopted, there are often some, some considerations and some points of view from year to year, or we inherit them, let's say that from the previous work programme. During the same period, the Committee referred to the home working bodies to consider 25 positions of the Republic of Croatia on EU working programme documents for 2019. The work on positions not discussed by the end of 2019 was continued in 2020. In 2019, the Committee also received 59 views from the Government of the Republic of Croatia for meetings of the Council of the EU in all 10 formats in which the Council operates. The position of the Information Committee was forwarded to the home working bodies depending on the subject. Furthermore, the assembly belongs to a smaller group of national parliaments of EU Member States which participates in the selection of national candidates for EU institutions and bodies, which is certainly something to underline. This task, on behalf of the Assembly, is carried out by our committee, which discussed and supported the candidates for the member of the Court of Auditors and for a member of the European Commission in 2019. Co-operation with the working bodies of parliaments, institutions and other EU bodies, I would say a few words about this, namely the quality of the work of the Committee on European Affairs, is particularly important co-operation with other working bodies in the assembly. Not only when adopting a work programme, but especially when it comes to working in the positions themselves. Given that European businesses involve a wide range of topics and a large number of different EU policies of labour authorities specialising in individual topics, it is crucial for quality work on the points of view. In fact, we in the Committee on European Affairs cannot know everything or be referred to agriculture, I do not know the protection of the environment, the economy, the finance and everything else that is related to European affairs. It is so remarkable that the parent working bodies also participate in the formation of a position. During the year in question, the home working bodies adopted a total of 23 opinions on Croatian views on EU legislative proposals. I am particularly pleased that this number is growing from year to year and I am particularly pleased with the increased interest of the working bodies for European affairs in the new assembly, which I will, of course, report more in the 2020 report, but this is evidenced, for example, by the fact that from 1 October 2020, we have already received 33 opinions from the parent working bodies on the positions of the work programme for 2020. So you see that it's a significant increase in opinion, and if we keep doing that this year, I think it's going to be even more. Cooperation with the home working bodies is important in maintaining contact with the EU institutions and bodies, especially when it comes to meetings with European Commissioners, which we always maintain together with the home working body or bodies, depending on a portfolio representing a specific Commissioner or Commissioner. Such meetings during 2019 were less than usual in earlier years, with a view to holding elections for the 9th session of the European Parliament and the long-term selection procedures of the new European Commission. From today's perspective, far-reaching 2019 was marked at the European level by the very elections and not going back to the topic discussed on several occasions, we will remind only that after the UK's exit from EU membership, Croatia has received an additional seat in the European Parliament, so today we have 12 Europarliamentaries and Europarliamentarians elected in Croatia. The Committee on European Affairs is a member of COSAC, the Conference of the Committee on EU Parliaments' Affairs and the Committee's delegations took part in all COSAC meetings held during the reporting period and since July 2019 and the Finnish Presidency of the EU Council, we have participated in the work of the COSAC Troika Chairman. The troika usually meets with the country that holds the presidency, the country that finished the presidency and the country that will succeed the presidency of the country that holds the presidency. COSAC meets four times a year, twice in each of the presidential states, once in the format of committee president meetings and once in a plenary meeting. In addition to this multilateral format, the Committee was active in bilateral activities, the delegation of the Committee on European Affairs was held in June 2019 on a working visit to Sj. Macedonia, while in February 2019 we hosted the joint delegation of the Committee on European Affairs, the two homes of the Austrian Parliament and the delegation of the Committee on European Affairs of the Hungarian National Assembly in Zagreb. A few more words on CoSAC's chairmanship of the CoSAC Committee on European Affairs, namely the implementation of the parliamentary dimension of the Croatian Presidency of the EU Council and the chairmanship of the CoSAC Committee on European Affairs should be the crown of the Committee's work since Croatia's entry into the EU. Of course, the circumstances that occurred, we could not predict in the darkest scenarios of what could go wrong during the Croatian Presidency. The European Affairs Committee chaired the COSAC from 1 January to 30 June 2020 under the conditions, the COSAC meeting was held in Zagreb, the Croatian Parliament and the NSK on 19 and 20 January 2020. If particular interest here, it would point out that this meeting was the last interparliamentary meeting in which the UK delegation took part as members of the EU, given that it is so-called ‘EU’. Political Brexit entered into force at midnight January 31st, 2020. The COSAC plenary meeting was scheduled to take place from 24th to 26th May 2020 at the Westin Hotel in Zagreb, however, the meeting was cancelled due to the COVID 19th pandemic and the result of the earthquake that hit Zagreb on 22nd March. Instead of a plenary meeting, the committee hosted a video conference by the COSAC president held on 16 June 2020. Although this was not our intention in preparing the presidency, the maintenance of this video conference will remain recorded as the organizer of the first in the history of the virtual COSAC meeting. Unfortunately, it is not the last such meeting because two COSAC meetings during the German presidency and so far one during the Portuguese Presidency were also held through a video conference, but what we can say and I underlined and when we discussed the Croatian Presidency of the EU Council, we were definitely pioneering in this and set some standards that were followed by all of us. In its June meeting, the Parliamentary Committee on European Affairs established good practice and a model for upcoming presidencys, which therefore also faced the inability of physical meetings. Finally, the topics that dominated the European level during 2019 are certainly the subject of Brexit, the adoption of a multiannual financial framework for the period 2021 to 2017, the political guidelines of the new European Commission, etc., but all this was more or less in the shadow at the end of the COVIDA pandemic or the Coronary Virus. The pandemic has exposed certain weaknesses in the EU but work on all these topics has continued thanks to the efforts of the Croatian Presidency. The Committee on European Affairs continued to participate actively in discussions on these topics and to participate in the formulation and representation of Croatian views. We have been particularly committed to maintaining the financing of cohesion from the common agricultural policy in the next multiannual financial framework and to continuing the EU's enlargement to the Southeast European countries, in particular for the continuation of BiH's European path and the opening of accession negotiations for Sj. Macedonia and Albania. Despite the change in the parliamentary term, the work of the Committee on European Affairs continues to depend primarily on developments at European level. I certainly look forward to new challenges with the hope that we will return as soon as possible to the so-called. old normal. The Committee on European Affairs, however, has shown and continues to show that it can meet all the challenges thanks, among other things, to open cooperation with other working bodies in the Assembly and to all MPs and MPs, which I thank them again on behalf of the entire committee. Thank you, of course, also goes to former Committee President Domagoj Ivan Milosevic, who in the year in question chaired the committee, I especially thank him for setting some standards with his work, he was inclusive and this report was actually the result of his work. Of course, thanks also goes to our secretariat, headed by the secretary of the Committee, who worked hard and worked hard and worked hard not to help the board function in order to deliver their opinions, so that everything goes on during but also to set some new standards. And of course thanks to all the members of the Committee on European Affairs from both the previous and this and I look forward to future constructive cooperation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39048	Thank you, too. You can sit down for a moment because Mr. Troscott, then you'll be back because Mr. Troscott asked for time to rest, right? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39049	Here, we are looking for a break from the respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, on behalf of the Mosto Club to consult on the newly created situation about Croats in Vojvodina, and here we are now discussing here on the Committee on European Affairs, we are calling on the Committee on European Affairs, HS and especially the MVEP to respond to European institutions to protect our Croats in Vojvodina who today have been prevented from being killed as cattle. So here we will ask for urgent intervention for the reason that the Federation of the Croatians of Vojvodina in no way has caused this kind of relationship but is working on bilateral relations between Serbia and Croatia and it would be very good to react more quickly and more promptly both as a Committee on European Affairs and as an HS, but to send this appeal to the MVEP to protect our Croats there because their rights are being violated and they are physically threatened with their lives taken. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39050	You want us to have a physical break? Yeah. Five minutes off. MEETING AT 10:41 A.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.45 HOURS]] We can keep working. Now it's the line, will you come, Mr. Hajdukovic? Here you go. It's a replica of Mrs. Devereaux. Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39052	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of HS, Agent Hajdukovic. You filed a report for 2019 where you spoke about the cut of all activities. What I would especially like to look back on, and how were you a member at the time, perhaps you could explain in more detail and tell me what perspective the instrument of political dialogue has? I saw that in 2019, the Committee used this as an instrument when it comes to the work programme sent by the EU to the Commission directly. My impression is that this instrument may not be known enough and that it would be good to popularise it among other working bodies within the HS, as well as representatives, because it is known that representatives can use it individually to communicate with the EU Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39053	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39054	Thank you very much, colleague Petyr. I agree with you that... an unknown instrument. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As I recall from 2019, I can't swear to you how many times we've used it and have. So I know we've been very actively discussing the positions that the government has put on us, but what I'm happy about on the other hand, that things change in this congregation. I think that, as Parliament together with our public, we evolve, that we understand that European affairs, our jobs, and that we understand how important it is to be involved in all EU-level events. I am pleased to note this at the level of the working bodies, now in the HS at the level of individuals, so MPs and I believe that you will also help me to the Croatian public, but above all also to the political public, but above all, to the political public, we point out which tools I can use and that it is not only to defend Croatian interests here in HS but also in Brussels.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39055	Mr. Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39056	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Hajdukovic's. As you said yourself, this is the report from the last Parliament's summons. To this extent, I wanted to use this replica to point out that indeed the chairman of the Committee, Domagoj Milosevic, as you mentioned, was led by the Committee in the spirit of tolerance, dialogue, I am pleased that this institute is now and under your chairmanship, in this context I believe that we can all agree that it is necessary to express solidarity with the Croats in Vojvodina, but also, of course, we should point out that our Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs has already taken action as soon as all necessary measures are known. So here I am, using this opportunity once again to get back to the first point, which is that there is indeed a constructive spirit in our Committee, and I think we must continue to build it that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39057	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39058	Thank you very much, colleague Stier, I absolutely agree in defending Croatian interests and representing them, especially towards the EU institutions, I think we should be at a high level of consensus, let's just say, at least, here we have been. As for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, or Croats in Vojvodina, we will certainly be able to discuss this within the framework of Serbia's Serbian, Serbia's EU accession and respect for minority rights in Serbia, but I would also like to point out that the Committee on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia has also reacted, that it was an initiative at last week's session to discuss this issue on the Committee, which was done yesterday, if I am not mistaken and the Committee has also reached certain conclusions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39059	Mr. Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39060	Your Honor, I have one question concerning point 5.3, that is, co-operation with the Court of Auditors of the EU. It is stated that there was no, that Croatia was not included in the model in 2018, we are now already in 2021. Do you have any information for 2020 that some of the findings were related to our Croatia, and have you received perhaps in response to some guidelines, guides or something related to these funds that we will withdraw, for which we should send the documentation by 30.4. since, for example, the Irish Times has warned about certain problems that Ireland will see about the money that will withdraw, so here we are, interested, whether we as a Committee have received some guides and how do you think that we too will have to protect ourselves from, for example, fraud in this field?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39061	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39062	Thanks a lot, buddy. I have warned before, here, a whole series of irregularities that have happened before in the withdrawals of money from the EU funds, I think it will, it will be a topic that will continue. However, our Committee is directly responsible here, it falls within the competence of the Committee on European Funds and Regional Development, but what I can tell you now is that in cooperation with the committee we are discussing exactly how it is in HS to hold a debate on this issue that you have asked, I think it is very good, interesting for the political public, but also broadly, so it is a very important document when we talk about, let's say, a national recovery programme that is interesting and the general public. I am glad, for example, that we discussed the National Development Strategy in parliament, but it certainly is not enough, what we must continue to follow and we are looking for models as it is a bit of a non-transparent process, which is a process of operational programming.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39063	Mr. Shimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39064	I thank the Vice-President of HS, dear colleague, thank you and thank you Ivan Domagoj Milosevic for the report and here we have heard that we have to do everything to protect the Croats, not only in Vojvodina who now have problems but also in Bosnia and anywhere. You have been in politics for a long time, so on July 1st 2013, it has passed quickly, can you give a review of what you think, has Croatia found its place in the EU and is it better to be in the EU or in the Southeast Balkans, or do you think the EU has any alternatives at this time for the Republic of Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39065	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39066	Well, thank you very much, fellow Shimičević. Ah, in one minute it's hard to say, but I'll try to answer you the best I can, the EU to our alternative, I don't think we have any alternative to the fact that Croatia's place in the EU and socially, sociologically, historically, culturally speaking, so we are undoubtedly in the right place. Did we find our place, ha the answer is there and yes and not because even as I said some things mature, still matures and consciousness above all in the political public how important Brussels is to us now, so European jobs are no longer foreign affairs, but to slowly find our place, that is definitely. And that is why I think that debates like this, but also discussions on strategic documents in Parliament are important for raising public awareness, but also for confronting ideas to produce the best documents.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39067	Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39068	Your Honor. Here in this report we have a lot of information on cooperation with other bodies in the Assembly and with EU bodies and with our MPs in the EU Parliament. I would ask you for information, did you have any thematic sessions with oureu parliamentarians, do they respond to the sessions you hold here in the Parliament, how often they respond, and what topics do they respond to? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39069	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39070	Thank you very much. Fellow Pavić, therefore members of the European Parliaments elected in the Republic of Croatia, are calling for all committee meetings, and we are now more easily resolved, as they can access the video conference route. In 2019, I can't quite swear what kind of response it was, what I can tell you now is that some people respond very regularly, I won't name now so that I don't advertise or hurt anyone, but some people respond very regularly, they discuss most of the issues while others don't say anything less. But what is very important and what we are trying to do is to include our members of the European Parliament as much as possible in the work of the Committee, and even to encourage them and other working bodies presidents to invite them to their meetings that relate to their work in the European Parliament because it is very important for us to decide, in forming a position, also to have the perspective of the European Parliament. So I now invite them through these, so all of our members of the European Parliament are welcome to our meetings and their contribution to our work can be very significant.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39071	Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39072	Thank you, Chairman. So here I would actually in a nice way invite your resolution board as the work body of HS that when it finds a convenient and appropriate, to consider an art. Versus 144. 5. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which clearly states that "the Republic of Croatia in the Council and the European Council represent, in accordance with their constitutional powers, the Government and the President of the Republic of Croatia." Therefore, we have a situation which is in fact some kind of political ordinary right under which the Government or representatives of the Government or Janez Janša are exclusively represented in the European Council of the Republic of Croatia, which I believe is certainly not good for the Republic of Croatia. If we don't like these constitutional provisions, then we can initiate the process of their changes, not pretend they don't exist in the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39073	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39074	Thank you very much. So I don't think I have much more to add in particular, so according to their powers and resolutions, Croatia is represented at the Council by the President and Prime Minister, or the Prime Minister, if this is a second form of the Council. What is important precisely because of this, precisely because Parliament is not directly involved in this process is to discuss as much as possible and to make proposals on the positions that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is taking on the Council. So, everything that hasn't been ad hoc discussions has been unfortunately enough lately, but it's because of the pandemic and so on. For all the other points, the Government prepares itself, takes an official position, delivers to the Parliament, then we deliver to the working bodies, and this is our way of participating indirectly in decision-making in the EU. There's a direct way I've talked about it before, but this circumstantial one needs to be used.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39075	And at the end of the day, Mr. Domagoy Price.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39076	Dear colleague. The EU's further enlargement to Southeast Europe, the countries of Northern Macedonia, Albania and many other countries has been mentioned today, we sometimes feel that this EU enlargement is going quite slowly. We know that by expanding the EU means that the European market is expanding, after some time the countries that join the EU are part of the Schengen area too, that we also have free flow of people so that, of course, it is always better and that only EU enlargement goes as soon as possible to round the European continent and unite across the EU. I wonder if when you were at bilateral and other meetings, did you perhaps speak and set deadlines when the next enlargement could take place, about which countries or countries next to which country could join the EU? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39077	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39078	Thanks a lot, buddy. Expansion is definitely a very complex topic and respond to the replica in a minute very difficult, but I'll tell you. As Croatia, we stress at every bilateral meeting that we have the importance of enlargement. Of course, I think that's what we must stress, they are aware of, but within the Union there is one, and let's say so by "expanding fatigue" and a conference on the future of Europe that begins now after the pangs of childbirth and which should define some things in the Union, among other things, may also be touched by enlargement. As for the fact that it will become the first member, I would personally like it to be BiH but it is still a long way ahead of BiH, we hope it will get candidate country status because some of the European Commission's demands are truly met. But if you ask me what countries are at a high stage of reform and harmonisation with the EU it is definitely Montenegro, Northern Macedonia and Albania.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39079	Thank you. No more replicas, thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. The first is Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic in front of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns. He's gone. He's losing his right. The second is Mr. Zvonimir Troscott in front of the Club of Representatives of the Bridge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39080	The Honorable Vice President of HS. Dear MPs and MPs and dear Croatian peoples who look through the screen. In this presentation, the name of the MOST Club, we will touch on the subject of the revision which we have asked the question of the distinguished representative before us who presented this very interesting topic where we saw that in 2018, Croatia was not taken as such in a sample of the financial audit in the EU itself. However, this does not mean that it will not, since we have received 24 billion opportunities in the package itself, an opportunity to withdraw for the needs of the Croatian economy. Our concern is next and that's what we talked about yesterday is that, today here is 11.3., 30.4. We need to submit all the documentation regarding the projects that we would withdraw from the EU, and to this day it is not clear how we will withdraw it. In the end, it is not clear how much this money will focus on the public sector, how much money will be focused on the private sector. And what the position of the MOST Club is is that this relationship should be somewhere around 50 for reasons that the private sector is the only one that can get the economy out of this situation where we are. No one is against the public sector in that segment. So he's much needed, but mathematics is clear there. Therefore, each kuna invested by the privateer himself who still has to add 2-3 kuna per calculation gives a larger, much larger return in terms of return to the invested and then increases income, increases both wages and at the end of the day and speeds up economic growth. On the other hand, investment in the public sector on one kuna of the invested return may be a maximum of one kuna, provided that it is effectively managed by the funds. But if it is not managed effectively then there is a situation to raise taxes or certain burdens in order to compensate for the lack of funds. We also made a proposal yesterday in which we could bring together the public and private sectors, for example, the rationalisation of the sick, because according to the calculations, Croatia is somewhere around 15 billion kuna at the annual level spending on the sick population itself, and according to HZZO data, around 30% of these diseases are unwarranted. Therefore, it could then be invested in localised or locally available diagnostics that could certainly help entrepreneurs on the one hand, as well as the state to reduce these costs, and on the other hand to have workers at work. Since we do not know in any way how we would withdraw all the resources we have the opportunity to withdraw by the end of 2026, the same question arises in which way we have prepared the audit framework so that we should withdraw, because according to reports or according to the warnings of the European Court of Auditors other than the public procurement of the following category, the next category, where big risks can be seen in order to miss or drain money on projects that are not reported are precisely these funds from which we will then draw money, not only us but the whole EU. However, since the very strategy of withdrawing these funds is not even clear, our concern here is that the platform itself will not be put up to be audited, or financial, so that the compience, coherence, finance, and all of this is done in a way that we set up all these control mechanisms so that the money we would withdraw from the EU will then be invested in the projects that we have applied for. There is a great concern not only of the financial nature, so the money would not go into the projects that we have invested in but also of reputation risk, because if we withdraw money once, and on the other hand, these money will not be invested in projects, and this is the first time that the EU has committed itself to such a debt then it would not be good for us to meet on one of the EU list that we have invested that money, or that there has been an outflow from these projects because each of the following withdrawals of these tranches and money will be difficult and people will not trust us because it is borrowed money that is also not known at EU level in which way it will be financed. So our concern is therefore, given this point 5.3, so it now refers to 2021 regardless of what the 2019 report is, that we will not be ready to withdraw any money, means all EUR 24 billion, that these money will not be invested in the private sector, and he is the only one who can get us out of this crisis at the moment. And point number 3 is that we will not have ready control mechanisms that these money that we will withdraw especially in the public sector will really end up in the projects that we have applied for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39081	Mr. Erik Fabianic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39082	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I will speak the name of the club a little more strictly on my own, the subject itself. Namely, the Committee on European Affairs, whose report we are considering for 2019, is institutionally important as the body of the Croatian Parliament, because it covers what is otherwise called the State Department's portfolio, such as European and foreign affairs and foreign policy, which includes internal security and defence. Legally and businessly he de facto has great importance either because of the powers he has, whether because of his work, part-time work. And through that prism, we need to look at the report itself. The assessment is that this report is well structured because it was not done in writing but was structured precisely on the basis of the powers, tasks and part-time work of the committee itself. Of course, it is about the report that is related to the work of the board in the previous session, but he, from that point of view, can be useful to those of us in the new congregation not only for the members of the board but for all co-workers and colleagues in the assembly, among other things because we are talking about a report that was in the pre-pandemic period, and we see how much we have been hampered in some things already at the beginning of this call. So, of course, he is also the basis for what previous speakers have said, the basis for a broader debate that is not itself related to a mere report. I also believe that what will be our future reports, therefore, which are related to the Committee on European Affairs, to keep that structure, and through this debate, we will eventually further implement it and enrich it. As far as the composition is concerned, I must estimate that both the composition of the previous term and in this summary is of great quality, not so much and because of party membership but above all because of the people who are in its composition because they are multidisciplinary and each individual in the sphere of their knowledge, skills and abilities can contribute as I have said to this very, very, very important body. The fact is that we have to be very careful about the experience of the previous meeting, so that we may even be more proactive in some things about the very facts about the positioning of Croatia within the EU, not only as mere observers but also as people who are a little more active in European affairs, at least when it comes to the part that is related to the views. In particular, it would be good if we could take certain positions before they are manifested and published in European bodies. Here, I think the report is good, that it deserves the support of the SDP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39083	Thank you. Mr. Bojan Glavasevic will speak in front of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39084	Grazie una vicepresident The HS Committee on European Affairs, just like all similar parliamentary committees in other countries, is designed as an instrument that, if used in the right way, can influence and strengthen the influence and political reach of a Member State within the EU, but also known as the EU. [[Intruder Radin: Prego.]] It differs from other working bodies in its form, there are two vice presidents, one in the ruling and one in the opposition's order, this form reflects what the content should be. In fact, the fact that European policy is not in its nature like a day-to-day policy is an area for implementation of the long-term strategic objectives of a Member State within the Union, which would, in an ideal case, be consensual. Members and board members can act through both parliamentary diplomacy and thus be their country's ambassadors, but also the ambassadors of democracy as a space for meeting different ideas and political visions. Unfortunately, Croatia is mainly benefiting from its European Committee on European Affairs for the smooth lifeless amendment of European legislation. The real debate is mostly lagging behind because most members and members are simply not involved, honoring exceptions from both sides of the assembly. The HS Committee on European Affairs, somewhere in its past, may have given up its own importance and a great deal of its role from the outset, and perhaps later. I'll give you just a few examples. We are starting with the fact that this committee has long allowed the Prime Minister and the Government to deliver their views on the European Council only after these positions have already been made, and meetings of the Council have been held. We are not really asked about these attitudes, nor do we have the opportunity to participate in their creation and what is even worse, these attitudes are not transparent but in the narrow circle of people in the cabinets of the Ban Courts. European jobs are not a private matter that wants to be deforestation, but a public matter of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The consequence is that the vote of Croatia on the European Council is thus converted into the vote of the party in Croatia in power, and that is not the way it should be. And to be clear, I'm not just saying this because someone else is in power right now, that's what I'd say if there were a coalition in power that I belong to as an independent agent. This practice simply takes away life by policies and attitudes that our leaders advocate in this format because it is exclusive. It also takes away their legitimacy because behind them nobody can actually stand behind them except the ruling ones, and those who have to stand behind them do so because they are forced by the party's discipline, not that they were asked anything about it. The discussions on this committee are actually so predictable that, with just a few exceptions, I could write in advance what each speaker will say about which subject and then listen to them say these exact sentences in their discussions. But that's not the only problem. The real problem lies in the fact that Croatia does not actually have a European policy, just as it does not have foreign policy. The deeper cause lies in the fact that the ruling party, as we have seen in the recent debate on the Development Strategy, does not at all offer a vision of Croatia that goes beyond the short-term interests of its members and those leading. And this particular party has led this country for the largest number of years since its independence. You know what our European and foreign policies are all about? At the EU's experience as a bank of pigs and lobbying for the interests of Dragan Covic and HDZ in BiH. There's nothing more or less. No vision of soft power, no reflection on the long-term strategic interests of our country, no search for allies who share the same or similar interests, no bilateralism. There is no systematic and consistent engagement on EU enlargement to our southern and southeastern neighbourhood, which is a couple of excellence work in favour of its damage. The Green-Left bloc club has a vision of this committee as a dynamic piece of work that discusses the quality and effectiveness of using EU funds to which institutions provide procedures for assessing the impact of EU work programme documents to know in time that European legislation will reflect on our lives. We would also like to stop the practice of harmonising domestic legislation with European legislation as a matter of urgency. In addition, we regret to see that the majority of other committees, with the exception of time, show no interest in discussing EU issues as is now the case in the 2021 work programme where, for example, they will be. to discuss migration only through the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and not through the Committee on Human Rights. All this with a little effort could change quickly. We have before us the amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament in which we can change in this direction and we will propose to move forward with amendments to the Law on the Cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in European affairs. It is tragic that Croatia today forgets many lessons learned during accession negotiations such as the importance of taking up fair treatment for candidate countries when they are exposed to injustice. First of all, I am thinking of the French and Bulgarian veto of Macedonia and an attempt to deny the country's identity and language but also of pushing our southern neighborhood into some god-awful comfortable waiting room which is essentially just a bad excuse for the unfulfilled promises of the candidate countries about their progress in the negotiations. Croatia remains completely clueless on such things, which is actually a shame. It also maintains the fact that Croatia not only has a vision of its future, but it has no vision of the future of the EU and no awareness of being part of it, it is invited to form it with other members. By saying this, I ask you dear colleagues and colleagues, do you think this committee is fulfilling its role? And perhaps more importantly, I invite you to consider what the role of this committee should be in your opinion? A machine to hit the edge of a printed camera policy by tenants in the Ban Courts, or maybe even a Horibildict, something more?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39085	Thank you very much. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Marijana Balic, who will speak in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39086	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning, I would like to highlight the work of the Committee on European Affairs in the period in question, i.e. in 2019, and also to say that there is a great deal behind all of us and, above all, behind the European Affairs Committee when it comes to the Croatian Presidency of the European Council in the first half of 2020. It can be said that during 2019, the priorities of the Croatian Presidency of the EU Council were dominated by the adoption of a new multiannual financial framework, Brexit and the future of enlargement policy, as well as by European affairs and international activities. As we could already hear, the Committee held a total of 16 sessions during 2019 and most of the sessions were dedicated to activities through which the Committee participated indirectly in the process of adopting EU binding acts to monitor the government's activities. Of the 16 committee sessions already mentioned, 3 were thematic. The EU development policy, then the EU's destination for the future of young people in Croatia and a European survey on values. During the year in question, the Committee on European Affairs considered a total of 32 views of the Republic of Croatia on proposals for EU legislative acts and taking into account the opinions of the working bodies, it made as many conclusions as it accepted the views of the Republic of Croatia. It should be mentioned here that from the views discussed, 17 of them were on documents related to the new EU Multi-annual Financial Framework for the period 2021 to 2027, which is how we know and adopted, meanwhile adopted, which is available to the Republic of Croatia for more than 22 billion euros for the next 7 years, which represent a natural, right and firm lever for the implementation of reforms, project implementation, investment and most importantly, for economic recovery. As regards the review of the report on EU Council meetings and meeting reports, it should be pointed out that the Government of the Republic of Croatia regularly delivers the views of the Republic of Croatia for meetings of the Council of the EU as it regularly informed the Committee on Meetings by delivering agendas, proposals for the conclusions of the European Council and the position of the Republic of Croatia on each of the agenda points. The Prime Minister submitted a report on its participation twice during 2019 following meetings of the European Council at the Assembly meetings. Here, of course, it should be reminded that this government has introduced a new practice of the Parliament's more frequent reporting on European activities, and all in order to better inform the representatives and Croatian citizens about European topics, and we must all consider it good and, of course, welcome. As regards the participation of the process of proposing candidates for the EU institutions, it should be said that the Committee discussed at its 43rd session a report on the candidate of the Republic of Croatia for a member of the EU Court of Auditors during the period of office from 2019 to 2025 at which Ivana Maletic was proposed as candidate of the Republic of Croatia. Similarly, at its 52nd session, the Committee discussed the Report on the candidate of the Republic of Croatia for the EU Commission member in the current period of 2019-2024, where Dubravka Shuica was proposed as a candidate for the Republic of Croatia and here it should be noted that HS is associated with a smaller number of national EU Member States' parliaments, namely 8 which participate in procedures or in the selection of national candidates for the position in the EU institutions, which, of course, gives additional legitimacy to our candidates as well as to the other 8. Similarly, a number of meetings of the Presidents and members of the Committee on European Affairs, which were carried out with foreign officials and delegations during 2019, should also be mentioned, followed continuously by the process of harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the EU, and adopted a total of 44 laws in line with EU law for 2019 at its 11th session. Sam Plan also contained 45 legislative measures, and during 2019 HS adopted a total of 44 laws in line with EU law. In the absence of a reduction in any of the activities carried out by the European Affairs Committee during 2019, which are detailed in the report itself, I would nevertheless particularly like to single out one. This is certainly the preparation and implementation of the parliamentary dimension of Croatia's Presidency of the EU Council. During 2019, in preparation for the presidency, the Committee was discussed at 3 of its meetings. Despite the real circumstances of the pandemic Covid-19 disease, we can say that we have achieved excellent results. We have strengthened statehood and set global visibility. We can also say how we have changed the way we work and adapted ourselves to new circumstances by setting new standards for all who come behind us. Finally, I would like to commend the report in question once again, but also all the efforts made by the Committee on European Affairs within the framework of its work cycle. Following all of the above, the HDZ Representatives Club will, of course, support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39087	Thank you, too. - Mrs. Crescent. Dalia Oreshkovic will speak on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39088	Thank you President, fellow MPs and MPs. Well, I will refer and start from what the predecessor said, counterpart Marijana Balic of the HDZ ranks, that Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic is more often informed by HS through this Committee on EU Council meetings and other positions adopted at the level of the EU body. Well, it's a lot more frequent reporting in vain if it's a post-festum. And that's exactly what Bojan Glavasevic was talking about right before her, and I agree that we are, in fact, discussing the report that is ahead, it is undeniable that the Committee has done a good job within those powers and roles as the Committee itself sees itself, regardless of what the committee from the previous meeting of HS is talking about. This is not the only work body of HS that has given up its own roles and its own importance. I would say that HS itself, as an institution, has taken away the role that the Constitution should play, and there are no other important institutions, such as the institution of the president of the state, and I will repeat what I said on the previous agenda, or agenda points, as well as every time we talk about any topic concerning the foreign policy of the Republic of Croatia, there is no unique vision because it is never designed. As a result, the Republic of Croatia is not using its potential in other bilateral relations. Our foreign policies, in fact, as he said, well-pointed by Bojan Glavasevic, are taken away from life because they are exclusively limited by the duration of the term of office of a government that implements them. Although, in the Constitution, the Republic of Croatia is writing something else. It says that foreign policy is co-created between the two branches of the executive government, however, it has never been so in the Republic of Croatia. And when we specifically talk about an area of EU affairs, I also said in the opening line, that is, I have repeated something that I have problems with in HS continuously, which is that it is an art. 144th century 5 The Constitution prescribed that the Republic of Croatia in the Council and the EU represent the Council in accordance with their constitutional powers of the Government and the President of the Republic of Croatia, and every time I ask that question, I get an answer, so yes, that's what it says there. And we all know that's not the case, and it just goes over it, if that's the Constitution, what? If it were a menu in a nearby restaurant, you would wonder what it says, and we do not wonder what it says in the Croatian Constitution. We as a legislative body, we as a constitutionalist. And what does that have to do with this committee? There is, as much as in the responsibilities it states in this report, he says he is considering government reports on EU Council meetings. So again, the Committee itself overlooked or deliberately silenced an important item from our Constitution. So I would then specifically suggest the following, so I would suggest that the Committee, for a start, consider this provision of the Constitution in the context of the provisions of the Law on the Cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and of the Government in the EU affairs because it is obvious that we have left someone out in that law. I think that no one is more invited than this Assembly Committee to take on a particular initiative, so I am based on experience from my own practice and specific knowledge that it has in relation to other Croatian working bodies, working or defining what constitutional powers would be for the President of the Republic, which the Prime Minister, when we are specifically talking about European issues and European affairs. And already in these, that's how many years since we've been a member of the EU, no one has thought of sitting at a table, so let's say how we could create our vision within the EU, how to exploit our potentials, which our countries will be partners and allies in achieving certain issues and topics, when at least that's not what we're talking about in public about, there were no talks and agreements between the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister in this or some earlier combination, I call on the Committee to start and open the topic. I think it's the only way and the only chance for Croatia to take some safe steps forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39089	Thank you very much. And now he's going to talk to Mr. Domagoj Hajdukovic, about the report he filed, please. Individually. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39090	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, but I have a few things I'd like to say for myself. So I can't usurp the proposing institute. First of all, I can sort of agree with the views put forward that we are discussing this report far, far post-festum and from the last term, I don't think it's necessary, but I wish we were more up-to-date. In this case, we couldn't have been for objective reasons, but I don't see why, for example, I can't possibly get reports from the attorney general's office, so we're waiting for the 2018, 2019 reports, now 2020, we're going to appoint a new attorney-general, we haven't discussed almost half the mandate and the last one. So, such documents are still waiting, it's not the only document of that kind waiting for 2018, there are plenty of them, I would like to discuss it more often, or that we are more up-to-date about the reports coming to the plenary sessions. Well, so does this one. But I hope that in the near future we will discuss the report of the 2020 Committee that we will soon form. I would also like to emphasise the importance of strategic approach to foreign but then European affairs. Because there is a colleague Oreskovic, in fact, on the right track, we, from our accession to the EU and NATO, who have been our strategic goals about which we had a consensus, have the impression in some way that we have lost ourselves after that, or we no longer know where we are, where we are going and what we want from our membership, how we will capitalise in the maximumist sense, etc. and this is also related to the issue of HDZ colleagues who asked me through a replica when I spoke as a promoter, whether we found our place in the EU. No, we're still looking for him, but we're running out of time. We've been a member for a long time. This is already the second financial framework in which we participate, from which we withdraw money and time actually does not exist. We have to agree much more seriously, and that's why these discussions are really important, and because of the public, and also because of the political public, we have to point out some problems and failures, but then hand over proposals in some way. I am pleased that our euro-species in the vast majority are really trying, they are pushing, putting some things that are important to Croatia on the agendas of their committees, it is certainly commendable, but we must strengthen the cooperation and coordination between the two parliaments and include them in the important things that are happening in our Parliament and through them directly involve us in what is happening in the European Parliament so that sometimes they can convey the position of the national legislator. As for the announced proposals for amendments to the Law on the Cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in European Affairs, amendments to the Rules of Procedure, I am looking forward to it, and I believe that the club that discussed it and presented such a proposal will certainly be an opportunity to discuss both the position of the committee and the position of Parliament all together in European affairs and see how we can strengthen and refresh it but this is another topic. And in the end, and I have to say that on my own personal behalf, I'm very upset that our government doesn't seem to understand, our ministry doesn't understand the difference between the directive and the regulation. In the directive we can always be more flexible, in the introduction of the directive into our legislation, while the regulation is something else. And I don't think we're using that enough, too, so we don't adapt the directives enough to our needs, and that way we don't maximise what we should do. Once again, I would like to thank the Secretariat of the Committee, everyone working on the Committee, who works with the Committee as well as all MPs and representatives who participate in the Committee's work and look forward to future cooperation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39091	Thank you. You have replicas. - Mrs. Crescent. Dalia Oreshkovic, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39092	Here, thank you. Col. Hajdukovic, the fact is that when we talk about foreign-political objectives, little can be read even from political parties' programmes and when we talk about the EU, it turns out that our foreign policy, or our objectives, is only reduced to the amount of funds withdrawn from the multiannual financial framework. And I would really like, as I said, that your committee has defined at least 5 key objectives for which we will fight independently on which the government at a certain point led the state and also what I notice, that our citizens and have no good knowledge of what our representatives in the European Parliament are doing, is the fact that many of them are working hard within their committees, however, there is almost an irrevocable gap and distance between them, their attitudes, their working day and what weighs the daily life of our citizens. Find some way to establish a communication channel better than the one we have now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39093	Thank you, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39094	Thank you very much, colleague, I will respond to these specific proposals through the intervention of the motionary. As for the work of EU members, there are some more, some less transparent, or more public knowledge. What we are trying to do on our part is certainly as much to include them in the Committee's work as possible, because I said, the EU perspective or the EU's perspective of Parliament is important to us, and by some logic, I think that they should have a significant perspective of the national parliament. Also, the affairs of the EU Parliament's representation in Croatia, which also works on popularising, say, by being a European representative or representative and what it does, but also as a kind of mediator between our representatives, MPs and representatives and Croatian citizens, giving them some topics closer, that the work of the EU parliament also becomes closer, closer, at least. In addition, EU parliament members also have money to bring citizens to the EU parliament and to introduce them to their work.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39095	Mr. Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39096	Thank you, Vice President. Dude, we come from different political options, so it makes sense that sometimes we have the same things and different views. I will look back on this part when you say that in some ways Croatia is still wanted in the EU. America is much longer in democratic processes than Croatia, and somehow I feel that the last four years in world politics have also been sought. So, when we're looking for each other, it's not so bad. But I have to say somehow that I can't quite understand that you can't admit that in the last four years Croatia has still positioned itself better than it was before and that the processes that are going are going in this direction that we are increasingly positioned in the EU every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39097	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39098	Thank you very much. My colleague, I wouldn't exactly pull parallels with America, especially because of the specificity of last administration, and we'll see how this one is going to be placed. The EU has some continuity there and we should have it and I am not afraid to admit everything that is good. You will not hear me mock something that I think is really good for Croatia in the EU. The truth is that we position ourselves better, that we are better positioned than at first. But as I said, it's an evolutionary process, I believe in the future, no matter who's in power, we'll position ourselves better and better. The very fact that in this House, we are discussing a lot more about European issues than before, and we have been members, tells you enough about how much the awareness matures that European affairs are important, that these are no longer external but our jobs and that we need to express our views here, both as representatives and as citizens and as political actors in general.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39099	- Mrs. Crescent. Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39100	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Hajdukovic, I think it is good to discuss this report, no matter what it refers to in 2019, because in all these discussions we can always remember what was good. Also, see where there might be room for progress. Listening to today's debates, it is my impression that there is still too much criticism that is somehow based on ignorance, and therefore I would like to hear from you whether there is a possibility that the Committee on European Affairs may be a little more systematic and more educated by representatives in HS, which is at all EU affairs, which is the role of the committee and what is the role of other committees and representatives in this area, because I think there might then be a greater understanding and there would be no such criticism that they really have no basis for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39101	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39102	Well, thank you, fellow Petyr. I agree with you, it's important to discuss, it's important to point to some facts, some to strip. As far as criticism is concerned, I have no problem with it if it will improve the committee's work. Often, what is said to be a missing topic, but regardless, this is an opportunity to open all European topics, as well as any report when we are discussing, and not necessarily to commit to this alone. I will draw your attention only to the fact that there is a newsletter on European affairs in HS which MPs and MPs receive on their e-mails, so it is e-Bilten, where they can read everything about EU affairs and by the committee, but also by other activities that are important, about documents that have been delivered, etc., so that everyone who is interested, I encourage them to read it better. And there's this counselor guide, though, I read it for the first time, we weren't yet a member of the EU, maybe we should freshen it up a little with EU policy issues and the influence of the national parliament on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39103	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. Now it's time to discuss Mrs. O'Donnell. Marianne Pettir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39104	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of HS, MPs and MPs. First of all, I would like to thank the President of the Committee on European Affairs, who in 2019 chaired this Committee, Mr Ivan Domagoj Milosevic, who, in fact, introduced new standards during his term of office, which I can speak completely of because at that time I was a representative of the EU Parliament and of his coming to the Committee, representatives of the EU Parliament began to receive invitations to join the Committee, to talk about some topics that were important to us, and this continued today as a practice. I would also like to say here that it seems to me that there are a lot of unfounded criticisms, that perhaps because it is not known how it used to be, and that, for example, we as representatives in the EU Parliament who were elected in 2014 could not get the RS position at all on any issue if we did not belong to the then ruling majority made by the SDP and their coalition partners. Today this is not the case and therefore this is about changing practice and introducing good practice because it must not be seen who is in which political party, the views of the Republic of Croatia should be made available to every euro-parliamentary, regardless of political colors, as well as representatives in HS should have all relevant information. So it seems important to me here to say what is true, and not to be about this topic that should somehow be focused on us all because it is rightly said that European jobs and our Croatian businesses are sometimes extremely superficial. It is no superficial approach that the task of this committee is to coordinate and legislation with the EU, also to co-operate with committees in the European Parliament, to cooperate with the European Commission, the Court of Auditors and other EU bodies, but what is interesting is cooperation with the bodies of the Croatian Parliament, so we are directed to each other. Citizens have little knowledge not only of the activities of the Committee on European Affairs but also of other committees. Under the light of the stage, these are the only discussions here at the plenary session and not just those that are most arguments but those that lead to the strengthening of certain relations in society, so the work of the board in the Croatian Parliament, so the Committee on European Affairs should be more visible and accessible to the public, and perhaps some of the concerns that arise immediately at the beginning should be removed. Yes, of course we can discuss how to put ourselves in the future towards the positions of the Republic of Croatia that comes to the Assembly, whether there is room for improvement of that communication, whether these representatives can make a contribution and no one escapes from these discussions, however, I think it is very important that we are always synergy in one consensus and dialogue with a better solution. She would disagree with those who criticized the so-called. The passivity of the Republic of Croatia when it comes to enlargement, because I will remind you that exactly 2019, as has been said, a great preparation for the presidency of the Croatian Council of the EU and that it was just under the stick of Croatia when it chaired the EU Council, there has been a shift and that the open negotiations with both Macedonia and Albania have been blocked for years, so I do not understand at all this kind of communication which is in principle completely incorrect because our interest in Southeast Europe for enlargement has always been very clear, articulated and I would say, indeed, in one openness and direct communication to all those who have set those obstacles, we always wanted to give arguments as to why it is good that enlargement does not stop. I think it is also important to mention the topic that has been opened, this is also a question of one of the potential future EU members as Croatia has been asked to meet all the conditions, so it must satisfy Serbia and there will be no discount, their treatment and attitude towards the Croatian national minority I have criticised as a representative in the European Parliament, not only that part, but also many other failures that they make, which are not on the trail of EU value, because Eu is not a case of pigs as some define it, the EU is created as a value-based community [[Intruder Radin: Time.]] and anyone wishing to be a member of that Union should protect those values. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39105	Thank you. You have replicas, stay. The first replica has Mr. Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39106	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, you have been talking about these positive shifts that are in some way and in Croatia's awareness of the importance of European affairs for Croatia, you are certainly as a euro-parliamentary who was there during the 3th term of the Croatian Parliament that you are talking about this cooperation between the Government and our euro-parliamentaries regardless of what political options they come from, and somehow it seems to me that this important shift and began in the past meeting of the Croatian Parliament, continued in this very act, which was kind of commended by Mr. Hajdovic when he said that in the Croatian Parliament there is much more debated about European affairs than it was before and it is coming from the fact that the Prime Minister wants to come to the Croatian Parliament and wants to inform the Croatian Parliament after every European Council of everything that was happening there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39107	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39108	Thank you very much, colleague on this replica. It is true, I can say exactly when these better relations between the European parliamentarians and the government began, the moment A. Plenkovic became prime minister and Davor Ivo Stier Foreign Minister. I remember and this conversation here is where we gathered us when he first visited Brussels after he was elected foreign minister, asked what should be done first, we all unanimously told him, so give us the data, give us the points, the other representatives come from the stands, we produce there ourselves according to what we should represent, and then that one dam was set up, simply removed and there was this flow of data. And that's what I'm calling for. So there can be no partying there because you have to collect support to push through good ideas. If you want to protect Croatia's interest or go in that direction, then you need support [[Intruder Radin: Time.]] You must have your views. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39109	- Mrs. Crescent. Selak Rasudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39110	Dear colleague Petir, I will agree with you that it is bad and I would even say an almost non-existent connection between what is happening in the European Parliament and what is happening in the Croatian Parliament. In fact, most of our work in parliament here is about copying different directives or regulations but what is missing is that we know what Croatia did at the time of the adoption of that directive or regulation, which we have fought for in particular or that we have failed to leave out. How do you think, how do you improve this practice, should we introduce a brief review when we are given the laws on the agenda of what Croatia is doing on this matter or some third educational way where we will establish a direct link between some abstract laws that are happening in the EU and what we need here? Because here we feel really only as copyists and this should not be the case because we are allegedly represented in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39111	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39112	Thank you very much. Therefore, EU legislation is adopted in agreement with three institutions, meaning not only of the European Parliament but of the European Parliament, the Commission and the Council must agree, that is, so-called. Trialogues that sometimes last two years, depending on the weight of the subject. But we here have an instrument that I, as chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, regularly use, so I, the President of the Committee on European Affairs, answer to his letters very regularly, and I propose to him that he be included in the Committee's work programme on position, but I also put those positions at the meeting of my committee, so the Committee on Agriculture, where we call on us, is mostly a resolution ministry, Ministry of Agriculture, but that doesn't mean we don't care about other issues that are related to sustainable development or something like that, and in this segment we ask the Ministry representatives to give us views, to tell us that other members in the Council are asking about some outstanding issues, which they asked for support and how this process takes place and for [[Intruder: Time.]] Now it's working well. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39113	And now Mr. Domagoj Hajdukovic as... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39114	Thank you, Vice-President, Commissioner Petir, is certainly a Committee on Agriculture, as you said one of the most active in the work and our committee, in general European affairs which I consider important because the common agricultural policy is one of the most important policies of the EU, and the Agriculture Committee, which you were one of the most important members of the EU Parliament. But as far as the committee's role is concerned, and the way I would say, we process European topics in the national parliament is one evolutionary process. I would remember, not only the President Milosevic who introduced some new practices, but also President Mondekar, who, Daniel Mondekar, who established the entire European Affairs Committee, led the transition from the Committee on European Integration, all of them left a trail, I believe that those who came after us will, and therefore we brought in, the Law on the Co-operation of the Government of the Republic and the Croatian Parliament on European Affairs, it is good that the prime minister wants to discuss all the topics that were on the Council and thus open all the European topics that are important. There's a lot more debate about it, and I'm estimating as well. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39115	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39116	Here, thank you very much, colleague Hajdukovic. Well, I really think it's a good thing that the prime minister is coming to the Parliament, which is being reported by the Council's Assembly on EU Council meetings, which is there's this possibility that even MPs are giving feedback, which may lead to a better understanding of our positions, but also gives him some guidance where we think there may be some room for additional engagement. What is good is that Croatia has positioned itself in the EU as one recognizable player, i.e. a recognizable EU member, which we have good contacts that help us address certain topics, of course I and the president of the Committee on Agriculture, but also the person who is particularly committed to this topic always somehow advocate that agriculture be more visible in these communications and activities because I think that because of the importance and merits better positioning and better approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39117	Thank you. Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Eric Fabianic's debate. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39118	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, the report on the work of the European Affairs Committee for 2019 gives us a maneuvering space to discuss European affairs a little bit more, whether it be the Government, whether it be the Parliament, whether it be the Committee, whether it be the other bodies in charge. Of course I didn't talk about it when I was talking about it on behalf of the club, which is also normal because I think it's more concrete to talk about the material itself. But through the debate, here's how we've already gone through something that's not really a measure, but it has to do with European affairs, and then I'd give one assessment, and this could be seen by all my discussions that were about EU affairs so that we could do much, much better than we do. We have, say, a situation concrete, which I'm going to mention, but which, independently, we're not going to fix with business regulations, let's not cultivate these illusions. In all things and always can be done according to any regulation if there is something called political will, therefore the will to do something. Unfortunately, that's not always the case. Croatia has been unprepared to join the EU. It is now too late to discuss the negotiations and what is said, to cry over spilled milk because what I was warning and saying, so Croatia when it came in 2013 already knew that at some point through the formula 2+3+2, then in the summer of last year, so with 1.7.2020, there will be complete freedom of movement of people. What does that mean? That people will go after a bigger salary, go where they have a job and go where they have a better working environment. Croatia knew that, she knew that already in 2013. She didn't get ready for that. And because of that, from the construction sector, we have a raise in wages, we have an increase in salaries raised by employers, it's their credit. It is not the merit of Croatian politics because in order to keep the worker he had to raise the salary. He had to raise his salary. It is not the merit of Croatian politics. I wish it was the merit of Croatian politics. We can raise the untaxable part, but it is the same issue of minimum wage policy, then it would be the merit of Croatian politics. Not in this particular case. When we talk about proactiveity, here it is, a concrete example, where our Committee on European Affairs at Brexit has also reached its conclusion, regardless of what my proposal was, of what are inconsistencies, to supplement it. And that would certainly be, I'm sure, complemented if it wasn't one catch in the whole story. If we had discussed this on the Committee and later in the Assembly when the deadline was up that Croatia could make its remarks because it could give them by 5 February to 5 February, so it can be better, it can be better in the existing frameworks. And I'll tell you why it matters. Because that's a question, I'm going to set a concrete example. In order for a person who has a residence in the Republic of Croatia to live for many years to receive a national fee that is related to age. So we have a condition of residence for the acquisition of rights, and then he can still retain that right in London even though he no longer has a place of residence. Why? This is certainly not the responsibility of the Committee on European Affairs, not even the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but is the responsibility of the competent ministry which has not done so. The third thing, we have three levels of signature, we have directives, we have regulations, but we have recommendations, and in recommendations we also have a maneuvering space to be, to be more proactive. That's it. That's it. That's it. Call, there needs to be political will to better position themselves and that's all Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39119	Stay, you have your replicas, your first replica was asked for by Mrs. Crescent. Selak Rasudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39120	Dear counterpart, how do you comment on the Croatian position within the EU and the Croatian policy within the EU in the context of the supply of vaccines during this crisis? In fact, we often hear praise that we are in excellent relations with the EU summit and that our position has never been better. However, if we look at how vaccination is going at the level of Croatia and which we are compared to the rest of Europe, then we can see that we have failed completely. We also have a situation, for example, that paper has been valid for Slovenia for 6 months since you got over the crown, while for Croatia this same science applies only to 3 months. Are we really talking about the same Europe and the same science at the level of this crisis, and has Croatia done enough to protect its citizens in the context of the purchase of vaccines within the EU?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39121	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39122	Dear colleagues, my answer will be Spartan, it can always be better and we must never be satisfied with the state we are in. I will remind you of what attitudes were when we discussed in this assembly, and what was related to the crown crisis. I was afraid to warn you of one thing. I think the question of the corona lacmus paper is the way it is related to which it will determine the future of the EU and its relations within the Member States. I was extremely pleased with the fact that at EU level, everyone in all countries agreed to be vaccinated on the same day and started vaccination, they were assured, so the EU has the power to finance an investigation or research into each individual vaccine research so that they could have it and so far in Covid-19 the EU has broken down. That's a fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39123	Mr. Domagoj Price.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39124	Dear colleague, first of all, I would like to congratulate you and colleagues Hajdukovic and all the other members of the Committee on European Affairs on your efforts and work. I would like to know when it comes to the work of this committee and the work of the HS, what do you think can be further improved so that we can have better relations with other EU Member States' parliaments to cooperate better and to share better experiences, which you think can be improved even better for the benefit of Croatia and the EU as a whole?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39125	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39126	Here's my colleague Stier, one part of what you're talking about can be sort of solved through the Interparliamentary Cooperation Committee, and that's why it's a good thing that my colleague Stier and I are members of the European Affairs Committee, and on the other hand, the part that I'm really calling for proactiveism, which means let's consider the views. Far from that, it may be technically too difficult for certain positions to be considered in the assembly before the government transfers them to Brussels, but that is why there is a Committee on European Affairs just so we don't have certain gaffs in the timing, and so that we really would be the word and the advisory body of our representatives in the European Parliament and, in general, in the EU bodies, and that could be a good solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39127	Mr. Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39128	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Fabianić, you spoke of a lack of strategic planning and that is, in fact, what breaks us the most in European and foreign affairs. You were talking about the full freedom of movement of workers, and we weren't getting ready as a country at all. We did not prepare for what happened in the sugar industry, in 2017 the quotas were abolished, we knew that they would be abolished, we did not bring any measures, we only do it in 2019, and in 2021 these measures yield results, or the factories are closed. Another example is that we have only, very late, started to educate the staff who should have worn this administrative part of European affairs. It is only 2006 that the Study of European Studies begins at the Faculty of Political Sciences, and yet, in 2000, we submitted a request for membership, we received ACQUIS etc. So it took a whole series of years for us to start producing people who, in a very short time, actually had to start carrying that story. And that's why we get into a lot of segments. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39129	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39130	Dear colleague Hajdukovic, everyone who knows me knows I'm not a Eurosceptic, so I'll say it better than never. But the fact is that it is certainly one of the tasks of this Committee on European Affairs, but for this strategy again in a way if, if someone concentrates on himself, then responsibility for both good and bad and here, and unfortunately we cannot, we cannot escape. And for this reason I again appeal here it is about the state, so here the public and most important political will among the responsible people, there should not be politics here that we meet especially when we have ministers going around Croatia, and they're whispering that it was given by one government, and it's essentially about European money.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39131	And Mr. Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39132	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Fabianic responded to the replica because I cannot agree with your view that politics can affect salary growth, only if it increases the minimum wage. Although the past government has just increased that minimum wage more than 4.5 governments have before. You listed the area of construction, I think that in the area of construction, part of it was paid because people went to other European countries, but on the other hand the wages grew and because the law of the market gave employers three, four times more jobs than they did at some point. And for these new jobs, these new projects are just due and policies because politics creates preconditions that these projects can be implemented at local, regional or national level at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39133	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39134	You said yourself it was a matter of pay, a question of the market, so I don't know what to answer outside of what I just answered. When we talk about the growth of minimum wage, it is simply the result of this market share, but we did not act proactively preventively in a way to prevent the emigration that prevented all the happiness of the pandemic because it is our reality. Look, I said a million times right behind this pay phone, look at what's purchasing power, a table of purchasing power across the UN, and compare it and make an analogy with minimals that are valid in the Republic of Austria, in Italy to neighbouring countries, then you'll see that the net minimum wage in the Republic of Croatia doesn't have to pass 600 euros There's almost 4,200 kuna in the government program, so it'll pass. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]] The year nothing moved. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, Mr. Fabianic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39135	Thanks, time's up. Mr. Stier. I'm sorry, you don't have any more replicas. I thought it was a replica. Here you go, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39136	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Here, in these five minutes, I would actually mention four points that seem important to me regarding this report, which we know is about the work of the Committee from the previous assembly. One of these points is quite certain value that the board had in organising and conducting various thematic sessions, I would point out here one, which was the one we had in early 2019, about European research on values, so "European Values Study", it has been doing a joint Catholic seminary and Croatian Catholic university for years, every 10 years in Europe since '81. Back in the '90s. And I think that was one huge contribution to the first of these institutions, but also a debate on what was later the subject and the Croatian EU Presidency, which is the future of Europe, or the Conference on the Future of Europe, which will now be co-ordinated by Vice-President of the Shuica Commission and which will certainly be the subject of the Committee's work in the coming years. The second item is about political dialogue, so the regular committee cooperates and has an open dialogue with other committees on European affairs from the Member States, which our chairman of the Committee of colleagues, Hajdukovic, said something earlier in the opening words. I think that there are important topics open and as far as 2019 is concerned, and there have been some preparations for the Croatian Presidency of the Union which was in 2020. So already in 2019, the need for an enlargement policy reform began, the reform occurred during the Croatian Presidency, and in 2019 our dialogue with other delegations discussed the need for a higher degree of solidarity within the EU. Of course, we didn't know about this pandemic situation at the time, with covid, but that was when it was discussed primarily because of the demographic problem, and today we have this pandemic issue. And in some ways, the fruit of all these discussions, of course, there may be a smaller share of our committee and parliamentary dimension in general, but it has also contributed to the awareness that a greater solidarity within the EU and the EU's future generation fund is also a reflection of that. I think it's good to talk more often in Parliament, discuss European topics. The government's decision and the Prime Minister's decision not to force him to do so, but voluntarily after each European Council opens a debate here in the Parliament that is a good practice. Of course, and now let's say the third point. And my fourth is that we have to see what steps we need to take now. I think that the law that we have passed before our entry into the EU on the relations of the Government and the Parliament has chosen one model that is somewhere between the model where the executive authority decides everything on European affairs and on the other extreme if you will, and that is perhaps a Swedish model where the Committee on European Affairs plays a very important role and basically the executive power can do nothing without the prior approval of that parliamentary committee. We chose a model somewhere between that. And I think it suits our needs now, although I think it might be necessary to strengthen the professional support that the Parliament and parliamentary deputies have in order to possibly strengthen in the future this parliamentary dimension of control over what constitutes executive power. Here, a short four points I wanted to simply mention, again in a constructive spirit that really rules in the work of this Committee on European Politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39137	Stay because the replica was sought by Mr. Selak Raspadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39138	Do you know what's bothering me? Sometimes it seems to me that we in the Croatian Parliament speak one thing as our representatives at EU level speak and do another. I'll be very specific. As possible, the ruling majority also advocates the constitutionality of the Croatian people within BiH and the rights of Croats within BiH who have been greatly violated, while at the same time the Council of Europe, headed by our Pejcinovic Buric, allows the head of the Human Rights Authority to allow that council after a five-day virtual visit to BiH, advocates the abolition of the constitutionality of the people in BiH, as BiH argues it needs a modern system that is not based on constituent nations. How do you explain that?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39139	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39140	Thank you, colleagues, for that. I believe that I can say from my own experience when I was also in the Government as foreign minister that Croatian foreign policy, regardless of whether we represent it in the European institutions in the European Council or at the ministerial level, has indeed stood up for the equality of all constituent peoples as well as Croatian peoples and especially the Croatian peoples in BiH. We have more examples, for example. when there has been a report on BiH at the UN Security Council, you have this very formula not only in our national position but also in the position of the EU ambassador to the UN seeking equality between the constituent peoples. So, as far as European institutions are concerned, there is indeed... as far as the Council of Europe is concerned, of course BiH is also a member and there are Croatian representatives in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe which represent it. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, weather.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39141	I have a breach of the Rules of Procedure from Mrs. Selak Raspadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39142	Art. 238.who STier demeaned me as a parliamentary representative and insulted my intelligence because he did not answer at all the questions I asked him, and it concerned a concrete event where Pejcinović Buric, or an institution that she led, was her head of Human Rights Office responsible for abolishing the constitutionality of the people in BiH, we have one story, at the level of Europe in our institutions another.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39143	Thank you. He hasn't offended your intelligence, and you have a warning. Mr. Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39144	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A fellow Stier principles you're some very important topics, I'd like to advance actually your arguments. Thematic sessions on our committee have always been very interesting and with very important topics, unfortunately we are limited by the pandemic, but we will certainly continue this practice. What you mentioned, and what I look forward to, is the Conference on the Future of Europe, which we will have on two platforms, institutional and civil, and I believe that we as a national Parliament, one of the national parliaments, can contribute to the debate in this institutional part. And the third thing, we as a committee and in our bilateral action are constantly on the table and on the agenda we are trying to bring back the topics that matter to us, you have well identified. I might single out some three that matter to me, which is solidarity, enlargement and cohesion, which is something that is very important to Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39145	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39146	Yes, my colleague Hajdukovic agrees with you, and you have also highlighted this issue of cohesion that I did not mention in my presentation, but simply because I focused on other topics, but it does make one very important topic and where we should not only be more solidarity but also be active in finding allies within the EU in this debate on how to reform or what the future of the EU will be. Croatia is part of so-called The cohesion Friends Group, we believe that reducing the differences between richer and less wealthy Member States is important and is one of the EU's aims to reduce these differences or to make cohesion stronger. Croatia certainly benefits from this, and we will also contribute through the Committee on European Affairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39147	Thank you. No more replicas, thank you very much. And finally, on behalf of the promoter, Mr. Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39148	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. First of all, thanks to all the colleagues and colleagues who participated in the debate that brought praise, but who also criticised. I think that every constructive criticism is good and this is an opportunity and these are the opportunity for us to open a number of European topics, to consider the role of our committee and Parliament in European affairs and the Committee on European Affairs itself. In particular, I would refer to a number of topics raised in the debates, and then I would also conclude this debate as far as the applicant is concerned. Therefore, as regards work programmes, although some proposals or positions announced or by a legislative initiative announced by the European Commission may not be in the work programme, this does not mean that our committee will not forward the positions adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the parent committees when they arrive at the Assembly. So, regardless of whether they are on the work programme or not, we have the option of assessing that these views are important to us to discuss. I'd like the views to be delivered earlier, but I have to be realistic here that it's often brought before the meeting itself, so there's simply no physical time that sometimes it might be true, but I'd like to be there if we were a little bit more proactive, that we're going to try this is a common joint joint joint venture, let's say it's both executive and legislative authorities. My colleague Stier spoke before me, so I would not be too long to hold on to the role of our Parliament, I would just like to underline the fact that I feel good, here is my colleague Totgergeli, and I will commend what I think is good, and that is that our Parliament really participates in a whole series of European topics in which many national parliaments do not participate. Therefore, in the appointment of our representatives in the EU bodies, on the confirmation of certain documents such as the National Development Strategy, Decisions on participation in EU funding or popularly called EU membership, etc., reports from the European Council meeting, so these are all which many national parliaments do not have. We have and that is good, and it is an opportunity to open all the topics that are on the table that are related to European policy, which are more or less all of the topics that concern both Croatia and our citizens. As for the debate on committees, I will tell you one anecdote, I think the most bile and longest debate was about the proposal to stop or standardise time within the EU so that we can all be one time zone and end the winter and summer counting of time. It may have been a proposal that was most interesting and most tangible, say, not abstract, but now they joke aside a much, much more important document and much more important opinions come to the board, but they often do not provoke enough debates. One of the reasons is that many documents are highly specialized as I said and initially, we can't all know about, I don't know agriculture, environmental protection, etc. and that is why the role of the home working bodies is extremely important. So, the working bodies involved in this topic are to discuss their own opinions, to deliver it to us as a parent body for European affairs so that we can take their opinion into account as well. I'm glad that I said that we discussed the National Development Strategy on our committee, unfortunately operational programming is a slightly less transparent process, but for that we have another parent working body that is the Committee on Eu Funds. I must commend this cooperation with my colleague, Mark Pavic, and I think that we will work very much together here, and that our committee will also discuss this in the future. As for thematic sessions as I said in the replica of my colleague Stier, unfortunately the pandemic limites us, but that's why we're no less ambitious. I believe that even by the middle of this year, if not thematic sessions, then we will have thematic points where we will consider very important topics related to the EU as a whole. I would once again invite all the members of the European Parliament, all the presidents of the working bodies, and then finally the representatives, all of whom are interested whether they are members of the Committee or not to engage in the work of the Committee in the work of their home bodies on European issues and to help me as president and our members to strengthen the board as a body and to maximise and the efficiency of its work. I would once again like to thank the former presidents of the Committee on European Affairs, and I will give them the chronologically from the last to the first, this is Domagoj Ivan Milosevic, Gordan Jandroković and Daniel Mondekar, each of them leaving his mark on the work of the committee and the evolution of the role of the committee in the work of Parliament, thanking them very much. Thank you to all the members and members of the committee of all the convocations, or to the three convocations of the committee, there is therefore in all three convocations. Thank you, of course, to the Secretariat and the Committee's Professional Service, headed by Mrs. Jelena Caver, who are really working hard and who are helping us to be as effective as possible in our work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39149	Thank you, too. Stay because you have two replicas. The first line was requested by Mrs. Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39150	Thank you, Chairman. Here I am today really full of constructive proposals, referring to the provisions of the Constitution, the law and the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. When you told your colleague Hajduković that there are not many topics within the board, because it is a matter which is high and professional, so you referred to other working bodies, I dare say that in the other working bodies of HS the structure of the representatives is such that we can not all know everything about everything. However, there is a good article. 52. The Rules of Procedure of the HS which says that "the Working Body can include scientific and other organisations of individual experts in preparing acts and considering a particular issue", I think that this would be a good way, by the fact that even in the term of this call, several times the competent European authorities have referred us to the fact that we have not translated some directives well into our national order.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39151	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39152	Thank you, colleagues. I agree, sometimes as an agent, you learn when you become a member of a working body, so maybe it's not something where you're at home. Art. 52nd is very good and we'll use it and use it in the work of the board. Now we're limited to saying because of the pandemic, but because of the videos, the conferences and the like, that's where you can jump into it. I would also like to strengthen your argument that this is why we have just outside board members who, as a rule, depending on what committee they are now, but come from a scientific, professional or institutional mile, so to speak, about a particular portfolio that should help us with our expertise here. I am pleased to say that as far as the Committee on European Affairs is concerned, we do have impressive people, experts who are our members, among them a European law professor with the Department of European Law in Zagreb, and I am sure that both its knowledge and other experts will contribute to the work of the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39153	Thank you. And Mr. Price.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39154	Dear colleague. The EU certainly opens up great opportunities for our country, it is good that we are part of the United Europe and all the advantages we get with it. It is good that in HS not only as a legislative body, but as the highest representative body in Croatia, we are discussing topics related to the EU. In addition to bringing benefits to Croatia and all other members with its own existence, the fact that the EU also has some problems to be resolved. First there is the stagnation of the population, 100 years ago the European continent had twice as much of the world's population as today, so the issue of demographics is one of the big issues. The second, among other things, concerns the issue of the economy, means how competitive the EU is, or companies in the area of Europe, how competitive they are with regard to other economies of the world. There's also a question, of course, of belongings the EU itself that needs to be [[Intruder: Time.]] to develop in the future. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39155	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39156	Thanks, buddy. You have started a lot of topics that I certainly believe will be discussed in other frameworks in this House, demographics, migration, or immigration, which is something that will certainly occupy us in the time that comes and in some post-pandemic time, but also, too, the economy, maybe thinking about revising some of our international agreements, I am talking about, above all, agreements at EU level, so about free trade that may not go hand in hand to our producers, but also, you also have a Green Plan, so a very ambitious plan as regards the green economy, as well as the circular economy, which the EU Commission is very forceful in this mandate, which we have discussed at the last meeting of the Committee, so I believe that there will still be a lot of topics in these fields that you have highlighted here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-12-0.u39157	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
