ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u71514	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 12:06 AM]] We go as usual every other Friday with a vote. Prior to that, in accordance with Article. 226.St. 2. I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the 9th session agenda with 19 new points. The proposal to supplement the agenda has been submitted by electronic means. 227. The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a single law is to be adopted after 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the public against Infectious Diseases, 2. Proposal for a law amending the Penal Code and 3. Proposal for a law supplementing the Civil Protection Act, with the Final Proposal for a Law. Reference to the emergency procedure for the adoption of the law under point 1. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases, with the Final Proposal for a Law written through the Green-left bloc Club, we will vote on an urgent procedure in the adoption of this law. Comrade Bencic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u71515	So here I am to clarify, therefore, that we are asking that the law itself does not go according to an emergency procedure unless the two-thirds majority is allowed to vote and vote by two-thirds majority, because otherwise we are actually limiting the possibility of reaching political consensus both through debate and through voting model, so for this reason we are asking to vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u71516	Thank you, I understand. So now we're going to vote on who's behind the emergency procedure when this law is passed? Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? Tell your colleague Bauk I don't understand what to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u71517	Thank you. Mr. President, for an unknown reason, there is no card in the seat of colleague Jaksic, so if you can count his vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u71518	All right, I'll count it. 122 MPs voted. What? ... Yeah, yeah, I'll do it right now in this vote. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Come on, stop. All right, even better. [[Intruder: Done.]] So 120 MPs voted and MP 77 was in favour and 45 was against it, so it was decided that we would go to an emergency procedure. Since there is no objection to the application of the emergency procedure for the draft laws under points 2 and 3, the adopted proposal for the implementation of the emergency procedure shall be deemed to be in accordance with Article 3. 205. Rules of Procedure. How appropriate. The 225th century 4th century. The rules of procedure of the written objections at the remaining points of the proposal to supplement the agenda have not been established that all the proposed items have been included in the agenda of the 9th session.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u71534	Now, on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, a respected representative, Dalia Oreskovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u71535	I will look back at the course of today's vote in the Croatian Parliament, especially with regard to the fact that the ruling rejects the request of several opposition political parties and this very justified request to discuss amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases 2/3 of the majority. The more the law discusses the Covid certificates and sanctions for non-compliance with the conduct of controls on their existence. On the other hand, I will look back at the course of the vote, and in an extremely humiliating way, that despite the unprecedented corruption in the work of the USKOK and the DORH itself, which was found by all accounts to be a consciously obstructed investigation against the former minister, the HDZ parliamentary majority also supported such a report. It is doubtless that the sign of support for the HDZ is a clear sign of gratitude for this political obedience and advocacy, something we have not had in this way seen in the history of the Croatian state, here I am testifying that in the last 20 years that I myself have had an internship in the justice system such as this seems to me that it was unimaginable even in the time of Ivo Sanader. And the third thing that has shown today's vote is this very dangerous tendency of a pure sabotage of a complete anti-corruption system by finally dying the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest and amending laws that strongly oppose both domestic and international professional public and common common sense. All three outcomes of the vote that have passed on to the vote by the parliamentary majority have been interpreted as signs of a serious political, judicial and constitutional crisis. So I ask the question, does Croatia even have a chance with such sub-capacitation and weakness of HS and a lack of awareness of key state interests at the moment that are indeed seeking a broader political consensus to calm down now the deeply disturbing divisions of citizens in our public. All this situation can lead to very difficult and irreparably difficult consequences, and I hope that for the next three years, how much time remains for this non-democracy and according to the tendencies the very totalitarian authority of HDZ will in turn encourage some other political forces on the scene, which by different political sides as well as stakeholders of civil society and all those intellectuals who care about building a much better state than Croatia is now. Because what we had a chance to see today and what we've been looking at for a long time in the work of HS is asking whether we need a number of institutions, as well as HS, which should be the main and most important of them, because we choose from HS a whole series of others who are actually derivating the political will of citizens expressed in the elections if not in any question, or even where a broader political consensus of different political options would contribute to the calming of the state and the solving of those key problems that is currently protecting and the lives of our citizens contribute to stabilising some constitutional principles. So, it's obviously not something the HDZ is up to and what HDZ needs in any way. I think it is high time we really wondered what the role and purpose of all of us who are involved in political life is when HDZ's practice has offended not only Croatian state institutions in this way but also the existence of a state as one who serves as pure prey [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] their private party interests. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u71564	In the name of the Social Democrats Club, a respected representative, Željko Pavić, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u71565	Dear Chairman, I thank you. My colleagues and colleagues. Here I am actually going to continue to present my colleague before me who actually said that in such a democracy for Croatia there is no salvation, that for our citizens there is no better future. What's this about? She talked about the prosecution, she talked about Uskok, she talked about how simple institutions don't do their jobs, and I'm going to tell you today and how we're doing ours became here in the Parliament. Here today we had a Committee on Information, Information and Media and we should consider the arrival of applications for the selection of three members of the Croatian Supervisory Board. There have been 12 applications, we have found that one is not complete and that 11 applications will actually go into further action and, of course, as usual, we have asked to make a decision that we will be with candidates who will be referred to further proceedings to talk to them. However, our decision is smoothly rejected by the majority. And now I'm asking you, how to make a decision on who will be a member of the HRT Supervisory Board, or I can freely conclude that the decision has already been made, but somewhere else, and not in the Parliament. And there's a problem because we don't decide here, but somewhere else, we've made a decision on who's going to be members of the Supervisory Board. It was similar with the director of HRT. The contest was called, the first applications came, and what happened? After the first reports, we already knew who would be director of HRT. When we announced that, when we said that we knew who the candidate was and who was most likely to be elected, we were told that it was not so, that we were wrong. However, it turns out that we were really right and knew in advance who would be the director. Today we can find out who will be, or who will be, the candidates for the 3 members of the HRT Supervisory Board. Isn't that embarrassing? This work certainly does not guarantee the public and independence of HRT's work. This way of choosing people in the leadership of HRT certainly does not ensure the public and the independence of public television. What can we expect from such a medium? If decisions are made at the centre of the ruling party, in the centre of HRT, in the centre of HDZ? That's embarrassing. And all our efforts, all the efforts of the opposition to the transparency of the election process, are in fact in vain. Why are they in vain? Because the ruling majority has a majority on the board, the ruling majority have a majority in the parliament, parliament, or parliament, and after that what has been made, decisions taken at the HDZ centre are actually just here to confirm. What do we get by that? Are we going to get that information we need? Will we have the information we need? Will our citizens get all those shows they want to get? Can we in any way influence the fact that HRT is public and independent in its work? I don't think we can and it's embarrassing for this House. If we keep working like this, if they keep doing state institutions like this, I don't think we have a bright future. We need to put an end to this urgently and start making decisions together, and that's why those initiatives to adopt some laws with a two-thirds majority really make sense, and there should be more and more of them. the law and such decisions. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u71589	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I ask you that whoever wants to stay, who doesn't want to leave and sit down a little order and get back to work. Okay? Here's a colleague on the right, colleagues on the left, please let's get started. Here first we are going to take a position on behalf of the Club of Representatives and Independent Representatives and the first one on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HDZ will speak to the esteemed representative Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u71590	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here's today I'd like to speak a few sentences about today, which is the International Day of Persons with Disabilities. So December 3rd and every year around the world, people with disabilities mark this day in different ways. In view of the covid, all of this is being held this year and last year in a kind of reduced form, but it is still being warned of everything that people with disabilities are not satisfied with, but also of everything they are satisfied with and what has been done for them. It is always good to point out what countries have done well for people with disabilities because we will know best what is left, with the fact that we need to know our priorities well. In the Republic of Croatia, the International Day of Persons with Disabilities is also marked in different ways, associations, roof organization, the Community of the Alliance of Persons with Disabilities these days, all have some events. However, these days, I would say to myself, as if they had teamed up and they were all kind of warning and pointing out, I must say, my dissatisfaction with the proposal of the Law on Social Care, but here I must say that I have conveyed this dissatisfaction and that I am happy that the Republic of Croatia has the Prime Minister, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, who absolutely understands the problem of people with disabilities and who said that certain problems will be the ones most touched by those with disabilities to try to resolve the second reading here in the Assembly. I believe that people with disabilities will be satisfied, and I want to tell everyone from this place what is not good so that we who make decisions know what we should do. Every comment you make will be useful and I am happy and thank all people with disabilities for good cooperation. Today, and that is to be pointed out because if we do not cooperate well, I will not be able to adequately convey everything that is needed and everything that most people with disabilities are experiencing. I would like to say from this place today that we have come very, very close to the adoption of two laws for which persons with disabilities have long been warned, and this is the social, social care law that will be, the law on personal assistance and the law on inclusive addition. These two laws should be passed at the end of next year in order to be applied with January 1, 2023. I believe that this will be what people with disabilities expected. We have plenty of time left to make a good deal together, and to put into those two laws what we've been preparing for 20 years. Thank you very much and here, once again, I wish to all persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia, and what else but happy today even though they say that this is not congratulating, but let's be happy and I believe that we will share this happiness together and that we will pass the laws that are important to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u71591	Thank you. The next one is... will be the Club of Representatives of the Mosto in a name to be spoken by the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u71634	Thank you, colleagues and colleagues. On this case, a disgraceful case, so where has the Chief State Attorney's report been passed, although it is clear that she lied here and before HS and the public that a major failure has actually been made, because all the information related to the case has not been forwarded to the Office of the European Public Prosecutor, although this was to be made in accordance with the regulation, although Vanja Marusic herself has confessed to the failures and then we have this shameful statement of the DORH which is not at all referred to these failures, means by ruling again giving the green light to Zlato Hrvoj Šipek, but I think that all of this is good ahead of this referendum because it is clear to the Croatian people what those who are managing Croatia at this moment are, who are managing this crisis, who are using this crisis to actually take over as much power as possible, to concentrate in their own hands, which people deceive and deceive, when they are responsible for the virus that they are responsible, who have no longer to be able to protect or to protect themselves. The Croatian people have had enough of this, the Croatian people have had enough of this compromised Staff and from tomorrow, here I am also in that shirt, we begin to collect signatures for two referendum initiatives. One is a constitutionalist who wants to strengthen our Constitution that human rights and freedoms cannot be decided by Capak, Bozinovic and others or by this compromised ruling majority but possibly through a broad consensus with the two-thirds majority of HS. This referendum is also a referendum on the Staff and everyone is very likely to remember the famous sentence "The next two weeks are crucial". Croatian people, the next two weeks are crucial if you want to defend your constitutional rights and freedoms. If we fail, then it will be a clear sign to them that they can do as they please. If you do not go to this referendum, they will surely use it to introduce as restrictive measures as possible. We see these EC announcements of forced mandatory vaccination. It's something that's unacceptable, but they'll go ahead too if our answer isn't such that we don't want to agree to it. So Plenkovic would have abolished Christmas if this recommendation had passed the EC and the Croatian people could swallow it, but the Croatian people will not swallow even the cancellation of Christmas, the Croatian people will not swallow crazy measures, the Croatian people will not swallow mandatory vaccination and this referendum is our last line of defense. I also call on all political parties, no more running away, all of them talking about how decisions should be made by a two-thirds majority. This was supported by our first question and the President of the Republic, so this constitutional initiative, I call on other policy options that are now going with our initiatives, we have supported them all, so we support the action of everyone in the opposition that goes in the direction so that human rights and freedoms cannot be decided by this corrupted majority or that they cannot be decided by a compromised headquarters. But there is also no more hiding for you either, whether you are with the referendum and the people or you are with the headquarters. The next two weeks are crucial, Croatian people go to the referendum, decide your own fate, decide your own rights, decide your own freedoms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u71694	Next, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns, a respected representative, Marijan Pavliček, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u71695	Dear Vice President of HS, colleagues and colleagues. This is the Bokele Navy vest, the Croatian cousin of the Kotor Seamen according to tradition was created in 809 when the Kotor sailors participated in the takeover of the power of St. A triple who later became the protector of the city of Kotor. Unfortunately, in 2021 today, the official Montenegro wants to view Croatia's traditional heritage as its own, so representatives of the Boske hrvats Community asked me to read their declaration here in HS. We are encouraged to react to the fact that Montenegro nominated the Bokeljska Navy in front of UNESCO as Montenegro's immaterial cultural well-being as completely torn from the Croatian Heritage Corps and Catholic tradition and, as announced at a conference of the UNESCO Immaterial Cultural Heritage Committee in Paris, the Bokel Navy will be declared the good of humanity, the first of its kind from Montenegro. For many years we have clearly warned about the danger of kidnapping from the memory of Croatian heritage of these traditions, as well as Croatian autocensorship. We specifically pointed out, and today, unfortunately, this has been updated, how important it is to take care of it in the areas where Croatians are the native people, as well as in that political space with which the Croats entered the Yugoslav political communities in 1918, such as Srijema and Boka Kotorska. In the protection of the Bokelic Navy as a Croatian national heritage beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia, Croatia, as a member of the EU with high standards of protection of national minorities, has unfortunately shown a lack of vision and clear policy. Non-compliance and failures of the Republic of Croatia, in particular its foreign policy, through the activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration and the Ministry of Culture and Media, resulted in a lack of protection of the interests of the Croatian national minority and favoured the accelerated process of assimilation or Montenegrinisation of the remaining members of the minority indigenous community. We are surprised that the Ministry of Culture and Media has not systematically responded to the abduction of Croatian heritage and the renaming of the Kotor Maritime Museum at the Pomorje Museum of Montenegro, and is now insufficiently active in preventing the kidnapping of our heritage of Montenegro, although, note bene, the Ministry of Culture of the Tripundan and the circuit of St. Tripuna included in the list of immaterial cultural heritage and in the Register of Cultural goods the same immaterial good that Montenegro nominated as its own heritage. It is therefore necessary to prevent memoryicide, culturecid, lingvocid and educocid. The fact is that Croats in Montenegro still do not have an established minority school system, there is no Croatian Heritage Research Institute in Montenegro, and they do not have a proportional representation of cultural heritage in cultural institutions. Despite the non-fulfilment of all the above-mentioned premises, to the fulfillment of which Montenegro has committed, the amount has tried to jointly nominate part of Croatia's cultural immaterial heritage beyond the current political borders, as well as the heritage of the great Boka Kotorska Community, which has held the same phenomenon since the 1970s in Split and other Croatian cities, knowing that over half a century the Bokela Navy had its headquarters right here in Zagreb. The Croatian state has not responded to Montenegro's steps in foreign exhibitions where Croatian cultural heritage is presented as Montenegrin. When it comes to the Bokelj Navy, the environment and functioning of the Bokele Navy administration and, in particular, Mr Anton Sbutege as Admiral, who have carried out a multi-year process of Montenegrinisation of the Bokele Navy and also decristianisation of the functions of the Bokele Navy. Therefore, at the moment of another blow to the Croatian people, we believe that it is urgent to implement the establishment of a special part of the Croatian Ministry of Culture for Croatian Cross-border Heritage in Croatian historical areas where Croatians are native people such as Srijema and Boka Kotorska. Boke Croats with their cultural and traditional heritage in Montenegro represent a bridge west. In addition, the Republic of Montenegro must protect the remaining Croatian population and its culture in accordance with international agreements and require that Montenegro honour interstate agreements and establish an autonomous Croatian school system as an institution for researching Croatian cultural and scientific heritage. And finally, the navy, the Boskelean Navy in Croatia, is organized through Croatian brotherhood with the centuries-long tradition of the celebration of St. Tripuna in Zagreb, Split, Rijeka, Pula and Dubrovnik. Maintaining the living tradition of Bokeljski Hrvats in the Republic of Croatia through the assembly of the squad and the installation of the car of St. The tripuna allowed Boklejska hrvats today to be perceived as an ethical group that continues to exist in these areas. Here's the prime minister today. Plenkovic in Montenegro so I believe [[Intruder: Thank you.]] that it will raise this question as well. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u71708	Now, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Sanja Radolovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u71709	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, I thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, this will be a thought 3 or 4 times for this speaker to talk about the same subject, but the repetition is the mother of knowledge, and the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development of 5, 6, 7, 8 times I do not know, nor do I refuse to give my consent again to conduct a medical study at Jurja Dobrila University in Pula. I will remind you that in Croatia, according to the Croatian Medical Chamber, 2,000 doctors and 4,500 nurses and technicians are missing, but yet the National Council for Science and Higher Education does not consider that this is enough even though all the legal assumptions for granting consent to conduct a medical study in Pula have been met. But let's start from the beginning to repeat the material one more time. The story began 2.5 years ago when the University of Jurja Dobrile in Pula started with the establishment of studies and the fulfilment of all legal assumptions, so that the course of the medical study with the study of justification and all other accompanying contributions first passed in accordance with the legal procedure of all university bodies and was addressed to the Agency for Science and Higher Education for the evaluation of quality and so on. So compliance with the network of criteria in higher education. Therefore, 2 positive reviews were obtained, which were assessed by the international commission, and only the Ministry of Science and Education found that the study of medicine as such and the whole of the laboratory with contributions met all legal assumptions. I must say that I am on the side of the ruling to worry about the fact that he himself is prime minister and prime minister of the Croatian government, Mr Plenkovic painted himself and stated that he strongly supports the establishment of a medical study in Pula. The same was done by two resolute ministers of one so Mr. Fuchs from the education portfolio, and the other Mr. Beroš from the health resort and said clearly and loudly that they support the establishment of a medical study in Pula, but apparently the stubborn National Council for Science and Higher Education for its own known reasons already several times in its sessions refuses to issue a day of consent. I must say that they are in fact breaking the law and that instead of representing the most professional body that should be in the system of science and higher education, they have started to play politics. I will also remind you that the second time we were refused that there was also an elaborate study of medicine at the Croatian Catholic University in Pula. At the next meeting of the National Council of the Croatian Catholic University, however, both elaborates were rejected, once again, the updated elaborate and the permit for the study were granted very easily. Therefore, on the basis of the agreement of the Croatian Catholic University with the KBC of the Sister of Mercy, or Vinograd, the agreement has been issued to them, although it has been established that all legal preconditions have not been met. I wonder who we are in Pula and Istria? Who cares if one university has fulfilled all the legal assumptions, if it has received the support of 2 resolution ministers, who would mind starting a medical study that will not take part in a financial cake or the University of Rijeka, or the University of Zagreb, is a quota of 30 students. 30 future doctors in the Istrian county we need. Some day, Istria County and Pula General Hospital received a useful permit for a diligent investment in the construction of a new and upgrade of a new general pulse hospital. But what it means to us, which will mean to us infrastructure, which will mean to us buildings if we don't have a doctor. I once again appeal to the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development to stop playing God, to stop playing politics because the Parliament's Education Committee has just chosen them, and this assembly has confirmed them as members to represent what they should be, and these are professional scientists in science and higher education, not politicians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u71758	On behalf of the HSS Club and the RF will now speak the esteemed representative Katarina Peovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u71759	Good afternoon, everyone. The other day I dared to ask a question about the Mother of Rome and the land of St. Sunday, the answer arrived only today. Mate Rimac claims we're slandering and lying, but he doesn't specify any of the things that would prove it. So none of the information we've provided here has been denied. The fact that a Roman was given land worth 82 million kuna for a lime per square did not deny a Roman. And the fact that it's worth 82 million kuna land is a fact according to the ministry's assessment. This was preceded by the pressure of Father Mate Rimec, Ivan Romec, on the city council through HDZ's representative, Haluzhan, and this is evident from the very transcriptions of the city's session. With Ivan Rimetz there was Zurovec who also published a post where absolutely nothing was denied, everything in their words was actually set up from that record. Before the Council's competition Sunday did not assess the value of the right to build but set an arbitrationally low price of 10 limes per square year or less than June per month. It was so low that at the city council session, even HDZ's Halužan warned that many could rebel against it and that other privates could rebel with law. The deadline for the competition was two weeks and there was no chance that someone else would report to the competition, so consciously given land below the market value, the contract, the contest was so short that no one could report. At the same time, the contract left the possibility for Romec to advocate the right to build a loan for the financing of campus construction. Mate Rimac says he's going to invest a lot of money, and he's given that opportunity, meaning the pawn's right to borrow. The companies that bought land from the city on St. Sunday paid for a square of building land of over 300 kuna. They also invested and hired people and didn't get a 100-fold discount. Instead of answering whether it's true that it's in his favor, it's based on the right to build at 69. The colleagues and colleagues with the ability to advocate this right for a mere dime per metre square metre while some others do not have that right, Mate Rimac which he fits, so here he responds and points out that he bought the other land by small money, 1000 meters away from this one says 600 thousand meters from Pliva square meters for 3 million euros. Here's what we have to congratulate him on, but that's not the answer to our question. The argument that the land on which we build the campus is still owned by the town of St. Sunday does not stand because this right of construction is given below the price because close to the meaning of the Roman soil of the Holy Sunday on far less valuable land of the Republic of Croatia pays for the right to build much more, so this also does not stand. And in the end, what does that logic teach us? Cities and municipalities that, like St. Sunday, will do everything possible to attract private investors, lift the cut, donate land and spend their resources will make other cities and municipalities do the same. The result will be the devastation of urban budgets, responsibilities, abandoned infrastructure on the one hand, and on the other capitalists who will receive huge resources practically free under the pretext that this is the only way to develop and create new jobs. At the local level, it is the same modus operands as at the global level, at the global level carry out tax havens, and ultimately the wider picture of society does not matter whether a single official has received bribes or not when implementing such policies.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u71760	Thank you very much. We will now return to our point on the Law amending the Law on Croatian Citizenship
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u72762	Now we're going to vote. 1. Proposal for a social care law, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 218, the motion is Government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: ‘1. Proposal for a Law on Social Welfare and 2. All objections and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when determining the text of the final bill." Who is it for? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 124 MPs and MPs, 77 for, 3 abstentions and 44 against, have voted against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. A colleague of Zekanovic's break? ... Now this Proposal for a Law amending the Household Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 219, the motion is Government, the debate is closed. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Before I vote, please ask my colleague Zekanovic for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u73196	The Honorable President of HS. In front of the Croatian Sovereigns Club, I demand a 10-minute break. Here I should once again warn of one fact that has been happening in Croatia for the past few years, that there are thousands and thousands of foster parents living in heterosexual communities waiting for the foster home of children. On the contrary, today children are given as an experiment to homosexual couples for foster care. This, of course, came from the Life Partnership Act introduced by the government of Zoran Milanovic, which was deceived by Croatian citizens after the referendum made it impossible to be anything but a community of women and men. All the things they told us from those LGBTQ communities that kids don't really care about them are coming out right now. To them, the key thing is actually fostering children, or later adopting them, and in fact, they don't hide it, they even do, and they say this is a big step, and this is a step towards adopting children, and that, by the same criteria, they can adopt two lesbian children and two homosexuals and two people living in a heterosexual community. So once again, I would like to point out and warn respected fellow representatives that we must take care of the protection of the rights of the child because every child has the right to grow up in the best environment for him, which is a heterosexual family, or community of women and men.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u73197	The apartment has been approved, but we have several injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Let's take it in a row, Comrade coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u73198	Thank you, Mr. President. He's been injured. 238. The Rules of Procedure, but this went one step further and was injured by an officer. The 240th century 4th century. The Rules of Procedure on the work of HS because this was a speech that insulted a whole group of people based on their sexual commitment, such a speech is not appropriate HS. Condemning someone 'Cause he's gay that he can't take care of the kids. [[Agreement: Thank you very much, dear colleague Grbin]] It's a hate speech, and I think you had to intervene on that. [[Employer: A colleague of the coat of arms]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u73199	No, I don't. My colleague Zekanovic expressed his position with him you can agree with or disagree with him, so we are different here and everyone will express the way he sees things, but it has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I won't give any warning because I don't think it makes any sense. Here you go, fellow Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u73200	Dear Mr. President HS, I also believe that the officer has been injured. The 240th century 4th. What the Republic of Croatia defends is discrimination. We all swore here that we would respect the Croatian, Croatian constitution. What the Constitutional Court has also established is that the Republic of Croatia must not, by arbitrary decisions or by law, prevent a social group from having access to the provision of social services to foster care.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u73201	Thank you, colleague Voter. Same thing as a fellow coat of arms. Comrade Hajdukovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u73202	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS. 238, but the Croatian constitution is also injured because there are no citizens of the first order and no citizens of the second row, and this speech puts one group within our society in another order, into citizens of the second order who can or can't. And a colleague of Zekanovic would ask what a great environment for raising children, homes, juvie homes, orphanages, are these great environments? You go over there once and see how the kids live, and then you talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u73203	A colleague of Hajdukovic, same goes for his colleagues, Grbin and his colleague, Glasovac. These are all replicas, you state your position, colleague Zekanovic presents his. That according to your interpretation, he says something in his address that you consider a violation of the constitution to be your right, but there is no violation of the Rules of Procedure, you know very well. Comrade Dark-Taritash, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u73204	Thank you very much, esteemed President HS. I'm calling in an article. The 240th century 4th. We are in this assembly, very often hearing speeches, attitudes, and opinions that are contrary to common sense. Therefore, this is neither the first nor the last such attitude. But what we must take care of must take care of the constitutional rights before which we are all the same according to the constitution. And what always amazes is that children as the most vulnerable group are actually used as each other to show different attitudes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u73205	Thank you, Comrade Dark-Taritash. Same thing. Comrade Zekaović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u73206	Dear President HS, Art. 238. I must stress here that every man is equally valuable, but every behavior is not equally valuable. And a step further in your aspirations in the aspirations of the left of Croatia is that maybe tomorrow the DVD also has the right to host and adopt children.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u73207	Same thing as the four MPs who spoke before you. Comrade Selak Rasudic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u73208	Art. 238, I must warn of one incorrect fact that should be the measure of this debate. Unfortunately, there are not thousands of heterosexual families waiting for the fostering of children, and there are not even thousands of homosexuals waiting for them. There are no rows for fostering children in Croatia and this is our difficult and dreary reality and children who need a home and family and what they should be dealing with instead of each other's bickering.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u73209	Thank you very much. Same thing. But colleagues and colleagues, now you're moving back into something that I've asked you many times not to, so now a debate is being opened through the use of the Rules of Procedure's injuries. And it's irresponsible by colleagues and colleagues, and please, I'm going to give these two to be the same now, but after that, I'm going to have to share notes and we're going to go back in the direction of the conflict, which I don't want to, but okay, whatever you want. Comrade Pavlich, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u73210	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 238, a colleague of Mrak-Taritash insults counterpart Zekanovic where he says his views are not common sense. Fortunately for us, and your sadness for the time of one-many and communism has passed, so we have the right to think differently from you and to have the right to say our point of view. And as for the violation of the constitution, here are those who say that ethnic cleansing was carried out in '95, and this constitution was sworn in. , Constitution of the Republic [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u73211	My colleague Pavliček thank you and here is the latest violation of the Rules of Procedure of my colleague Peović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u73212	Thank you. I'd, uh, I'd, uh, I'd, uh, I'd, uh, I'd, uh, I'd, uh, I'd, uh, I'd, uh, I'd, uh, I'd, uh, I'd, uh, I'd, uh, I'd, uh, I'd, uh, I'd, uh, I'd, uh, I'd, uh, I'd, uh, I'd, uh, uh, I'd, uh, uh, I'd, uh, uh, I'd, uh, uh, I'd, uh, uh, uh, uh, I'd, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, 240th and to invite all MPs and MPs to leave each time, means when you do not respond with a reminder of taking away words, and when someone insults the Croatian people of religious, national and other communities, when he calls for violence or hatred, insults sex, gender and other groups, and foreign states and international organisations and their representatives to all be in violation of the Rules of I mean, this is one situation of a series of such situations. [[Agreement: Fellows Peović]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u73213	My colleague Peović, many in this assembly think that you often do exactly what is defined by Article. 240th and then probably on the other hand I would also have 50 or 60 requests for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but we are in parliament and here people are giving views for which they received support and votes from Croatian citizens. So citizens have different views on different topics. We may like it or not, but that's the way it is. So I'm asking you now to join the vote. Comrade Radin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u73214	I'm asking for a break. Let's be clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u73215	In the name of, in the name of...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u73216	On behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, which is particularly sensitive to human rights. I was encouraged by the words of Mrs. A peasant who said they don't exist...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u73217	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u73218	...unlike many people think, there are no rules to adopt.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u73219	Just a second, colleague Radin. Something, somebody's got a cell phone or something on, I don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u73220	They don't exist, there aren't rules for fostering, and there's no order for adoption, unfortunately. The one who's been to any orphanage, let's call them that, knows how many kids run there for people who come over the weekend, for example, or heterosexual, and I don't think gay people do because they dare because such an atmosphere is created. Come on, Papa Francesco said, Papa Francis told me who I am to judge, and we have Mr. Zekanovic who judges and who is bigger than Pope Francesca. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u73221	My colleagues and colleagues, I beg you, this doesn't make any sense, this is all that's happening right now, these injuries to the Rules of Procedure, it's all on the other side of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. And we have a vote now, we don't have a debate now. What you're doing is all violation of the Rules of Procedure and please stop, so that we can vote and discuss later. Now, after the vote, there's a five-minute debate between clubs, and everyone can state their position on whatever topic they want and talk about whatever they want. Here you go, colleague Selak Rasudiæ, I'm just announcing right now, from now on I'm going to have to make warnings, I wanted to do it liberally, but obviously it's not going to work. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u73222	Article 238, I understand you, Mr. Jandrokovic, and I'm even sorry to have to react, but here's the honest little shame that we in the Croatian Parliament do not know the basic facts when we talk about fostering and adopting, and everyone would like to talk about this topic. The foster care lines are gone and we're very short on the foster home. For the adoption of whose procedure is too difficult there are rows, but only for certain groups of children and we would have to make it clear and know when we talk about such a serious and important subject. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u73223	Thank you, dear colleague Selak Rasudiæ. This is your third warning now, so I'm taking away your word now during the vote. The same thing will happen now, perhaps, to counterpart Zekanovic if he calls.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u73224	I accept the risk, so in 238, here's my colleague, Radino, I have to give him a violation of the Rules of Procedure, Papa Francesco Francis or Frane is extremely clear on your happiness, or unfortunately he called on the Catholic Church's Katequism. Study a little Katekism and you will see what homosexuality is said there and about the possibility of adopting and fostering children by homosexual couples. So, lucky for you or joy, study, study.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u73225	A colleague of Zekanovic, also a reminder and you can no longer speak during the vote. Now we have another request for a break, Comrade Beljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u73226	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the Club of Assembly Representatives of the HSS and the Workers' Front, I am looking for a 10 minute break to study Katekism before the vote itself, to study the Bible, perhaps also to study Freud, perhaps to study what it means to define common sense, and in particular to return to Freud I think that he, I am not very sure 100% but 99% I am that homophobia is in principle those, the greatest homophobias who are afraid of what they carry in themselves. So we should talk about it, that would, that would be common sense because I ask myself every time I listen to homophobic outbursts, so I ask why. I'm like a teacher at school, so on adolescence that was homophobia, we would kill it all, etc., etc., I was asking them a question why. Are you afraid of it in yourself? So, I think it's going to be because I really don't see the reason that anyone out of pure peace has had against someone's sexual orientation, so there must be some reason and I think Freud gave a good answer. I think it's Freud, and that's how we're going to use it in principle to study it further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u73227	Okay, well, my colleague Whitey's break is approved, but since you won't be here in 10 minutes to study the Bible, Freud and Katequism, I'm afraid there's no need... and extra, okay. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] My colleague Zekanovic, you have no right to speak, no, no, I can't, you have no basis for the right to speak, so we can't move on now. We're going to vote now. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Household Act and second all objections and proposals will be submitted to the Proposer to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 125 MPs and MPs voted, 77 for, 7 abstentions, 41 against and thus concluded that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. Proposal for a Law on the Activity of Psychotherapy, First Reading, P.Z. Number 220. The motion is government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the proposal for a Law on the Activity of Psychotherapy and other all objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 122 MPs and MPs, 76 for, 7 abstentions, 39 against, and the conclusion was reached that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u75771	... May I? [[Specially enabled.]] Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We will discuss and vote not only on the State's Attorney's Office's work report but on something far more important than that, we will vote on the conclusion that we will initiate the appeal procedure by the main state's attorneys. The reason to initiate her recall proceedings is a lot, so let's try it in these minutes and number it in a row. The DORH knew about all the circumstances of the case, the DORH knew about the art in the case of the Grief that the state was damaged, the DORH stopped the procedure, pushed him into the drawer. The main state attorney knew about everything that was going on in the case of Žalac, the main state attorney, the state's attorney and the USKOK lied to the Croatian public. The European Public Prosecutor's Office had to intervene, he had to jump in, he had to stand up to protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia, Croatian citizens, the Croatian budget from corruption. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the institutions of the Republic of Croatia have not been doing their job since the moment HDZ put its paw on them, the EU must save our face, it must save the rule of law, because obviously from the moment the HDZ took over the government of the state, we cannot do so ourselves. Dear colleagues and colleagues, at this point the minimum responsibility towards us, to our society and to our country is to this chief state attorney to thank and say goodbye and to her place to bring someone who will be able to do their job. In the pre-elections We'll be decided by everyone [[Intruder: Thank you]] For ourselves, are we fighting corruption or are we corrupt? [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u75772	My fellow coat of arms, thank you. The apartment is approved. Now it's time for my colleague Oreshkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u75773	Thank you, Chairman. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Club for 10 minutes for consultation. Croatia is in a deep crisis of justice. It's mostly the DORH crisis and the SCOTT. Media reported today that HDZ as a political party convicted of corruption pardoned the chief state attorney, which means that by accepting this report, the ruling majority will be thanked for obstructing the investigation into the former minister's case. Fellow representatives from the HDZ and other coalition partners, each vote to accept this report is a sign of support for corruption that permeated all the pores of the state and society. And it could be said that the situation in which DORH and USKOK are not a defence of the constitution and the law but are acting on political guidance is not only a judicial but a constitutional crisis. And the fact that it works on political cracks can be concluded on information in the media that is not in any way disputed and challenged. And I will refer briefly to Mr. Clear's statement, the deputy chief state attorney, who explained that if there were any irregularities, any difficulties, that did not lead to judicial consequences. Well, what do you mean? The legal consequence is a conscious decision by the DORH and USKOK that the corrupt action is not further processed and, in doing so, the deputy chief state attorney calls on citizens to ask themselves what is the prevention and without any shame of calling at the time when the same HDZ parliamentary majority adopts the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest which literally kills and eliminates the commission from a systematic fight against corruption. Croatia has now exceeded the level of corruption that existed at the time of Ivo Sanader. So I'm calling on all MPs to stand up to it because we know what they might be like. The devastating consequences. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u75774	The apartment is approved. Now it's my friend Bencic's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u75775	Thank you. I am looking for a break on behalf of the Green-Left bloc club to point out once again that it is absolutely unacceptable and unsustainable at the head of the state's attorney's office to have a person who has not twice but three times told the lies here and here to our parliamentary representatives, but also to all Croatian citizens. And when she first said that they gave their initiative documentation to the EPO, which turned out to be wrong, and then when she said she didn't know, then maybe she knew something about the case being stopped inside the D.O.R.H. It has been unfortunate to watch the main state attorney, a key figure in the fight against corruption in the Republic of Croatia here in a assembly where only and only defends HDZ, a party recently declared responsible for the crime of abuse of positions and powers, noting crimes that the same state attorney most often rejected in 2020, most often dismissed precisely those reports of corruption by citizens, and you say that citizens are unconscious and need to increase awareness of the importance of fighting corruption. The worst thing is Minister Malenica's statement and also Hrvoje Šepek on the application of European law where they claim that she did not have to hand over the items that occurred before our law came into force although the regulation on which the law has been in force since 2017 and they should have handed over all the cases open, closed, semi-open and hidden because it cannot be legally amended by application and regulation and what it says in the regulation and whether it was brought in order to close them until the moment the law was passed Was that the intention? [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u75776	The apartment is approved. Now, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u75777	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Bridge Club so we can only send one message. All those who will vote in favour of this report are the main state attorneys involved in the joint criminal enterprise. After it became clear that the main state attorney had lied to us, not only the parliamentary representatives and this highest institution in the Republic of Croatia but the general public, you have no reason to support it anymore, or you may have because she had mercy and mercy on your Gabi because she loved your Tolusic and others, and now you have to return the favor. It is clear that the regulation discussed by colleagues before, the Regulation establishing the Office of the European Public Prosecutor, Art. The 8th century 3 says that not only must the current reconnaissances be passed on to OLAF. It wasn't made. You are embarrassing Croatia and in front of European institutions. And we can freely say that everything is the same as at the time of Ivo Sanader, only the second head is at the head, now it is Andrej Plenkovic, we see Gordan Jandrokovic, we see Branko Bačić, we see Boric, we see Pupovac with a few new apprentices or assistants in corruption like Hrebak, like colleagues of Habib and others. So it's all the same, everyone who raises their hands for this participates in a joint criminal enterprise. There's no reason for you to protect the attorney general except to return services to her for everything she's done for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u75778	Use the very hard words of my colleague Grumo, but...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u75779	Too mild... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u75780	Yes, yes, yes, yes, very light, you're light on the trigger when you accuse others, but well that's your right... Yeah. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Let's move on, let's move on, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u75781	Thank you. I'm also looking for a break on behalf of the Homeland Movement Club. It's no secret that Mrs. Hrvoje Šipek has inherited a difficult condition. She's not the only one who's responsible for DORH's unhappiness. For years, this judicial body has failed in the right way to prosecute, for example, war crimes, but also other serious crimes that are indisputable, and we can see the result. However, her report and method of work do not give rise to any confidence in the congregation. So, if we are at least on paper equal to all of Croatia, membership in the HDZ presidency should mean nothing, however, the fact that this behaviour and the outcome of the surveillance suspect that we are not all equal. So that's sad. We will ask, among other things, that the vote as each MP voted be put on the council's website so that it is easy to be visible to anyone who is interested. So DORH has a big problem, and among other things, it doesn't work again I'm going to repeat about one person only. We are certainly on her shift, however the way all state lawyers are elected, the State Attorney's Council is under suspicion that it is a closed circle of people whose work is not sufficiently exposed to the public. I think we should open up a debate about it. Everything we say right or wrong is in public court every day. However, these bodies work somewhat non-transparently, and the results are clear to all. So I can't get a passing grade and we'll be safe. be against. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u75782	We have another request for a break, colleague Jelkovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u75783	Thank you very much, President, on behalf of the HDZ Club, I am looking for a break in order to point out once again what comes out of the report, and it is based on the results of the work of the DORH for 2020, and all indicators suggest that the success of the work compared to 2019 is greater by all indicators. It's so obvious that nearly 10% more charges have been filed. The quality of the indictment also tells the fact that 97.5% of the indictment is confirmed. A total of 88%, 88% of the convictions against the total number of court decisions, which speaks of success. On all the indicators in the report, it follows that the DORH is responsible in its work and that we first have to judge by what the report results from, and on the basis of, not on the basis of media inscriptions. What has not been said here today, and this is the case of Zalac, the attorney general has conducted internal supervision according to the law and has submitted a report showing that the conduct of the case has been established by all the basis of the facts and therefore continues to have our trust. As far as the opposition's trust is concerned, the main state attorney did not have their trust either when it was elected or we do not expect it today, and as far as citizens in HDZ and this government are concerned by the monthly polls, and they also talk about the trust of your voters in your work. We will continue to seek to work responsibly in the interests of all citizens and in the interests of the state, and voters will again show who they trust. As for the work of all government officials, we will seek equal responsibility for all before the law and equal responsibility for work. We will fight corruption by strengthening all institutions in society, not the way you fight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u75784	The apartment is approved, like everyone else. So 293b. We'll move on, but before that, we have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. The first is a colleague of Grumo's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u75785	Infringement of Article 238, the fact that there are more indictments only speaks about how much corruption has accumulated since you took over all institutions and demoted all institutions that are fighting corruption or which are serving to prevent corruption. You've made so much of this corruption that you can't even hold back where the biggest controls are, where the European funds are. There's your longing so much that you steal into it and then hunts you down. The European Public Prosecutor's Office. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, dear colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u75786	You're getting a warning from your colleague. This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Bernardic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u75787	Your Honor, Article 238 was injured because colleague Jelkovac referred to the sources from which we are informed here in the Croatian Parliament. One of them is the media that has clearly said today that HDZ has decided to forgive the Golden Croatian Ship and keep it at the helm of the DORH. When it comes to corruption in Croatia, you should be reminded that this is already your third, third state lawyer. So you chose a third state attorney So he certainly didn't do his job. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u75788	You get a warning from colleagues, a colleague of Bernardic you get a reminder this is also a replica. And my colleague, Beljak, here you are, the same violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u75789	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Article 240 was injured by his colleague Grumo. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament because he has expressed very difficult words and I suggest that at least you or members of the HDZ raise a criminal record against him by Zlati Šipek Hrvoje and convince us that this application will pass and that Grumoja will end up in prison and then we know that we have a state attorney's office that is independent of politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u75790	Comrade Beljak you know that we are not applicants and we can deal with heavy words, accusations even when they are false. So that's not a problem we're in politics, we have a little bit of a stronger resistance, and you're not too scared when it comes to resistance to your account when you get as much as I've noticed. So we're not gonna press charges, we're gonna put up with it, and we're gonna win next time. Okay, well, we've come to the end of the Rules of Procedure's breach now, so we're going to go to the vote. So it puts the next conclusion to the vote. A report by the head of state's attorney of the Republic of Croatia on the work of the state's attorneys in 2020 is hereby adopted. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? It voted 126 MPs and MPs, 77 for, 49 against, so as to conclude that it was proposed by the home working body. The National Council for Monitoring the Implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy has proposed to the Assembly not to accept a report by the State's Attorney General, on which it is irrevocable to vote because we have accepted this report, so we now come to two conclusions, the first Club of Representatives of the SDP to propose to the Assembly the adoption of the following conclusion: It is up to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to base the Article. 28th century 2 of the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, NN 67/18 submitted a proposal to the HS to recall Chief State Attorney Zlata Hrvatska Šepek. Who's in favour of this proposal? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 118 MPs and MPs voted, 43 for, 1 abstention and 74 against, so that the conclusion was not reached that it was proposed by the SDP Representatives' Club. The conclusion of the similar content was also proposed by the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy, so Conclusion: The Government of the Republic of Croatia is in charge of that in accordance with Article. 28 Law on the State's Attorney's Office, NN 67/18 submits a proposal for the resolution of the main state attorney of the Republic of Croatia. Who's to this conclusion? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 119 MPs and MPs voted, 42 for, 1 abstention, and 76 is against this conclusion. Now we're going to propose a law to prevent conflicts of interest, first reading, P.Z. No. 225, the motion is Government, the debate is closed. Before I vote, my colleague Bernardic's conclusion came to his attention for a break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u76152	Dear President of the Parliament. We are looking for a break so that around the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, we can point out that unfortunately for Croatia again, this time the government was caught the same way as before the European institution, those institutions with which you once liked to drill into the chest whose opinions you allegedly cared about because this time you got a new slap and a slap from a GRECO institution that follows the implementation of recommendations for conflict of interest. GRECO wrote in his report that this new law, and that is what we have warned about, did not provide for penalties for unfair politicians. And why didn't you put punishment in it for dishonest politicians? Well, because it doesn't suit you. As it did not suit you to continue the investigation against Gabriela Žalac, a member of the HDZ presidency, and on the other hand, the real question is whether the HDZ or the government affected the judiciary or the DORH? On the one hand, the prime minister here boasted this week that the DORH was independent, that it had no influence on the judiciary, and on the other hand, an article in one daily newspaper today said the HDZ had decided to pardon the lady's main state attorney. So my question is, how did HDZ decide to pardon the state's attorney-general if he allegedly didn't get involved in the operation of the DORH? And this is what is the main problem in Croatia, the government is acting on the one hand as a pro-European government means it advocates the fight against corruption, and on the other hand it deceives the public, spins, tramples the institutions of supervision, tries to hide the affairs and does what it wants in the Republic of Croatia. Corruption unfortunately took many young people's future, if it hadn't gone away in this country, wages and pensions would have been higher, people would have lived better, life would have been higher.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u76153	Thank you very much. The apartment is approved. Is anyone else picking up? If not, then we'll apply the article. 293.b. Then we move on with our work. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: ‘1. Proposal for a law on the prevention of conflicts of interest and 2. All objections and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when determining the text of the final bill." Who is it for? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 126 MPs and MPs voted, 77 for, 1 abstention and 48 against, and concluded that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. The Green-Left bloc's club proposes to HS a conclusion that it says: The HS is obliged to draw up and adopt the HS's ethical code within 6 months of the date of adoption of this conclusion. Who's in favour of this proposal? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 113 MPs and MPs voted, 36 for, 1 abstention and 76 against, so no conclusion was reached as suggested by the club of representatives. The Green-left bloc's club proposes to the HS a conclusion which reads, so another: It is up to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to extend until the second reading the Proposal for a Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest in the final proposal of the Law of power of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest in such a way that the Commission acquires the power to issue an order to verify the immeasurable property of the Tax Administration when indications of such disproportionate property income are derived from the data in the property card of the debtor of the Law. Who's in favour of this proposal? Who's restrained? And who's against it? It voted 118 MPs and MPs, 41 for, 2 abstentions, 75 against so that no conclusion was reached as suggested by the club of representatives. Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the International Convention on the Protection of All Persons From Forced Missing, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 206, the promoter is the Government, the debate is closed, the amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Legislatives. During the debate, the proposer's representative accepted the amendment to the Committee on Law and became an integral part of the final draft of the law. I am now voting on the final proposal of that law. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 121 MPs and MPs voted in favour, and all were in favour of the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the International Convention on the Protection of All Persons from Forced Peters.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80427	The Honorable President of HS, respected and respected colleagues and fellow MPs. When a colleague of Grumoja had a similar problem, he asked you, a colleague and colleague of the representative, not to go according to the usual practice but to remove his immunity. I am also asking people this way to vote against the report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, I received a first-degree ruling in that case and in some ways my own rights have been suspended. I also want to win an inadmissible verdict, and I want to fight for it. This way you're making it impossible for me. I don't want to hide behind my immunity, he doesn't need me to be in this or any other procedure, and this way I really ask you to vote against this report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission and to remove my immunity to prove my innocence in court and in a second-degree procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80428	Comrade Bauk, in what form would you like to perform?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80429	Mr. President. I suggest you postpone the vote on this topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80430	Okay, this way, given the practice we have and the experience, we'll postpone this vote for Wednesday, and then we'll see what the position of the clubs will be. I wouldn't want to put us in a situation we've never had before. So we're postponing the vote on this wheel for Wednesday. Just a few information, please colleagues and colleagues just so you know everything that's going to happen right now. Today we still have a free speech and a follow-up to the point you were having in the morning. So on Monday, a statement on the amendments, Tuesday a statement on the amendments, and afterwards the Final Proposal for the Law on Renewable Energy Sources and Highly Effective Cogeneration. On Wednesday, the vote is at 10.00 hours, followed by the Final Proposal for the Budget Act, so this is the new budget law, so it has nothing to do with the 2022 budget. and Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Expenses Act. On Thursday, the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the public against Infectious Diseases was followed by the Proposal for a Law on the issue of covered bonds and public supervision of covered bonds. On Friday, the Final Proposal for a Law on adult education and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Preschool Education and Education Act. We will continue after that on Monday, there will be a second reading of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, we will have the Economic Chamber Act I do not know whether Monday or Tuesday, and Wednesday would end with a vote on discussed points. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80431	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Before we start with the agenda points, I use the opportunity to congratulate everyone on this pay phone International Day of Persons with Disabilities. To remind us all, the UN declared the International Day of Persons with Disabilities on 3 December, and the Human Rights Commission has been in resolution since 5 March 1993. calls on all Member States to highlight the marking of that date in order to achieve equality in the exercise of human rights and participation of persons with disabilities in society. I am extremely proud to point out that the Republic of Croatia is the third country in the world to ratify the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which certainly points to the ability and need of Croatian society to ensure equal opportunities for this particularly vulnerable part of the population. He would dare say that people with disabilities may be the most vulnerable groups in society, although the most vulnerable are not unfortunately the few. According to HZJZ register in Croatia, more than half a million people with disabilities live in Croatia, while in the total population of Croatian people with disabilities account for 12% of the population. To bring us all closer together and give us numbers, that's almost three cities of Split. Persons with disabilities include those who have long-term physical, mental, intellectual or sensory damage that can prevent their full and effective participation in society on an equal basis with others. On the proposal and initiative of our colleague Ljubica Lukačić since October 1917. Plenary HS sessions are also transmitted to sign language on the 4th HRT programme, which I think is an important step in the work of the assembly, but also an important step in order for all citizens to be equated to receive information. He would point out another small step in the work of HS. To our colleague Lukačić and Mrs. The elephantjek to our lawyer whom I particularly welcome this time and congratulate her on this day, but also to all colleagues and colleagues with disabilities who will come to HS in the future and speak with this speaker we have provided an equal opportunity for this little gesture to establish a new speaker. It is up to us and to all society, in the state, and to every individual personally to ensure the accessibility of all citizens, political, social, cultural and economic rights to persons with disabilities. Let this day's marking meet its goal and contribute to improving the quality of life of disabled people, easing the consequences of social exclusion, as well as sensitising the public to the presence of people with disabilities in the community and the problems they face on a daily basis. I needed to say that at the beginning of today. I would also announce the possible presentation of the position of clubs after the conclusion of the debate on this point, about the first point for which there are not many people who have been reported for the debate, so we will not wait for this usual time but we will proceed immediately, so that you also know that, but also to inform colleagues and colleagues who may be interested in it, and we will move on to this point that is at our debate today, and that is: - The final draft law on amendments to the Law on Croatian Citizenship, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 216. The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172 The Rules of Procedure of HS. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 1(1). 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State Zarko Katic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80432	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, and Your Honor, gentlemen. There is a small Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Croatian Citizenship with the final proposal of the law, but it is in fact a continuation of the amendments and additions to this law that were passed before 2.g. and who tried to give access to Croatian citizenship one more round of people, which will be discussed below. As an independent state, the Republic of Croatia has arranged for the acquisition and termination of Croatian citizenship by adopting the Law on Croatian Citizenship on October 8, 1991, and since then, the law has experienced several minor amendments in '92, '93. and 2015, as well as major changes and additions 2011 and 2019 because certain legal shortcomings have been observed during the years of practical application of this law. The law on Croatian citizenship has built-in fundamental principles and standards that are known in European legislation such as the principles of legal continuity of citizenship, the principle of preventing apatridity, the exclusion of Croatian citizenship, the equality of marriage, extramarital and adopted children, and the prohibition of discrimination. I would remind myself once again that the law stipulates that Croatian citizenship is obtained by origin, by birth on the territory of the Republic of Croatia, by birth or by naturalisation and by international contracts. It is precisely the acquisition of citizenship originating in the principle of blood connection that is one of the most important and most Croatian citizens have thus acquired Croatian citizenship and are registered at birth in the books of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So one or both parents, and this system has always been a central way of gaining Croatian citizenship. The Law on Croatian Citizenship was complemented by the last amendments and additions of 2019. 5th century 2 according to which the origin is acquired, so the origin of Croatian citizenship is acquired by a person over the age of 21, born abroad, whose parent is a Croatian citizen at the time of birth, but if, within 2 years of the entry into force of these amendments and additions, he submits a request for enrolment in the register of Croatian citizens. Likewise, a new provision has been introduced. 30a no. 2. based on which the Croatian citizen is considered to be a person born from 8.1.1977, so before the entry into force of our Law until 8 October, until the date of entry into force of the Law, which at the time of birth of both parents had Croatian citizenship, but was registered with another nationality. Therefore, from this person, if, within 2 years of the entry into force of these amendments, they have entered into force on 1 January 2020, they apply for the establishment of Croatian citizenship. It is this institute of establishing Croatian citizenship that was introduced into our law right at the very beginning, so in '91. was a way of remaining without citizenship for those whose parents, one of the parents, had Croatian, at least one of the parents had Croatian citizenship, and therefore was born in a country that had ceased to exist and separated into several states and, otherwise, it was worth several federal and republican citizenships at the time of its existence. In this case, it is exclusively about the persons in, the validity of the last law of the SFRY, so since '77. Until '91. who otherwise regulated that if both parents are Croatian citizens, the child must be enrolled in Croatian citizenship. However, some of these children were mistakenly enrolled in another former Yugoslav republic despite this explicit provision. Therefore, within 2 years of the entry into, the last amendments and additions are allowed for those persons to apply for citizenship, and if those facts are established, they shall be obtained. So, as I said, the law came into force, the last amendments and additions to the Law.../incomprehensible/... 1 January 2020, which almost coincided with the beginning of the pandemic caused by the Sars-COV-2 virus, so that because of these circumstances conditions of the epidemiological situation in diplomatic missions and consular offices of the Republic of Croatia abroad, it was significantly difficult to submit requests for acquisition or designation of Croatian citizenship. A large number of persons subject to the cited legal provisions are, in fact, disabled within that time limit in the submission of requests for acquisition, i.e. the establishment of Croatian citizenship within the prescribed legal period, which is why the prescribed purpose of the Law cannot be realised. This is why it is proposed, therefore, that these provisions of the Law, which are before you, the final draft of the law, be extended for another year, to extend the deadlines which expire on 31 December 2021 by another year and are therefore proposed to adopt this Act by haste procedure. According to the statistics conducted by the Ministry of Interior in 2020, the first year of application of this Act, 100, 1 923 requests for Croatian citizenship were received, and in the present part of 2021, so for the first 11 months a total of 2 980, so a little less than 5,000 requests during the application of this Act. Many, according to information from our diplomatic consular offices, many people have announced their arrival, received their terms, but in some cases not immediately but in a few weeks or even a few months or so, so that access to these persons would be possible for our diplomatic and consular representations, it is proposed to extend these deadlines by 31 December 2022. Here, it is a taste of amendments to the Law on Croatian Citizenship, which is now in front of you. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80433	Thank you. We've got more replicas. She is the first respected representative, Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80434	Dear Secretary of State, like anyone who cares about his country, I am very aware that there are less and less of us and that people are precisely the quality demographic policy key to the survival of our community and the state of Croatia. Therefore, like many of our citizens, I am happy to receive the news that we have such an inflow of requests for the approval of Croatian citizenship. Moreover, in the light of this Law, you say that there are increased demands, a large number of people who have been prevented from receiving Croatian citizenship and are particularly justified reasons why you are extending this deadline. Who is not looking forward to our emigration, diaspora, emigration returning to Croatia? So I have no doubt that it will not be a problem for you to answer the question in which, precisely, diplomatic and consular representations we have schedules for requests for Croatian citizenship? Who is anxiously waiting and unable to be granted these requirements? Who wants to go back to Croatia? [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80435	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80436	Your Honor, Madam Representative. These changes before you relate to a relatively, not relatively narrow group of persons who are allowed the right to submit these requests. So the question would be much more appropriate to ask the foreign ministry, but of course, because of the cooperation, I have some information. The most requirements for obtaining Croatian citizenship in general on all legal grounds are, let's say, the deadline for South American embassies in the South American countries, so in Buenos Aires, Santiago because there is relatively little diplomatic and consular representations covering more than one mission of several countries. The following is the area of the former Yugoslavia, so BiH and Serbia and some consulates in Western European countries, above all in Germany. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80437	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80438	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here's one good part of my intention for the replica is to match that colleague Selak Rasudiæ, so I'm not going to repeat this about which consular representations are the largest number of requests, so here's the second part I'm going to ask you. In 2020 you said yourself 1923, as I saw in the preparation of 1091 was based on these new legal provisions of 1.1.2020, and now much more so this year by September 2400, of which 1440 were required under this new law, which was since 1.1.2020. How would you interpret it from what makes such a big difference? Looks like there'll be more by the end of the year. And when I read a little bit of this existing law, it was in force to liberalise that those who demand recognition of citizenship are being freed from the obligations of knowledge of Croatian language, Latin letter, Croatian culture and social order, I think it's really liberal and the question is how many of these people will return to Croatia at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80439	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80440	Dear Madam MPs, if I understand your question correctly, I think you may have confused some legal bases and they may indeed be in such a short set of questions and answers difficult to explain here right now. So, the very requirements for Croatian citizenship by naturalisation around in the MUP in recent years, this changes, of course, were sometimes much more, arrived about 4 to 5000 for acquisition. These changes made two years ago and adopted by this home are therefore two relatively narrow groups. And according to one of them, it is this group that has the right to establish citizenship so that when that person was born, and at least 30 years old because 30 years of Croatian independence and the adoption of the law, it means whether he should have acquired the citizenship of the then Croatian SR. If this is determined by him, let's say retroactively approve that citizenship with a deadline with the date of its birth, unless it is rejected. And such demands are these figures I've read. that it was significantly increased that the number of applications was last year [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] and this year was a significant... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80441	Thank you. The honourable representative, and the pardoned violation of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80442	Thank you very much. Art. In 238, I'm going to ease it up, so it's a little disdain, and I didn't do anything wrong, but I was reading from those official reports. But you didn't answer me until the end of the question that I asked you, how would you interpret where you're from now so big an increase from 1923 to 2400 just until September and how long it will be until the end of the year you haven't answered my question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80443	Okay, that's not what you can do. It's a replica. You're getting a warning. Let's not do that. We have the ability to communicate with the secretary, ask him all kinds of questions, so let's not abuse the Rules of Procedure. Dear Representative Kirin has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80444	Dear Vice President, Your Honor. Some believe that the law discriminates against some applicants mostly from members of Serbian nationality, while some Croatian emigrants' children gain citizenship. I think the law is very liberal. There are about 5,000 demands that the parents of Serbs from Croatia when Serbia and Croatia were in the community, lived and worked in Serbia still live there, and children who were born at that time are now seeking citizenship that they are mislisted in the Serbian citizen register. There's no mistake, they're looking for documents to get better benefits. I don't think there's a problem. If the parents in the documents have a clear clue that they have Croatian citizenship, but for example in the index, citizenship was written in Yugoslav and the nationality of Yugoslavia. What you think should be there to please them Or be very selective? [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80445	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80446	Your Honor, Mr. Representative. I agree with you that the Croatian Law on Citizenship does not discriminate against anyone, I have initially said and what principles are built into the foundations of this law. One of those principles of yours that apply to some extent is the principle of continuity of Croatian citizenship. Anyone who's until '91. had the citizenship of the SR of Croatia, regardless of its ethical origin that citizenship had acquired and still could not lose it. So, on the same basis, people can acquire other legal basiss of the law of Croatian citizenship, there is one provision that states that citizenship can be acquired by members of the Croatian people who do not live in the Republic of Croatia, means that they live abroad if they prove that they are not punished, so they are not a threat to national security. It is a provision that allows people of Croatian nationality to gain citizenship even though they do not live in Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80447	Thank you very much. Dear representative Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80448	Dear Secretary of State, persons who do not have an approved stay in Croatia submit requests through diplomatic missions or consular offices abroad, which has made this epidemic situation more difficult because of the pandemic. How long in this case is it waiting for approval when we know that diplomatic missions or consular offices of Croatia abroad already have all the terms filled out? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80449	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80450	Your Honor, ma'am. MPs, precisely the main purpose of these amendments is this epidemiological situation since the last, therefore, changes that took effect on 1 January of the 2nd year, have coincided practically with this epidemiological situation and for those persons this period is extended for a year. So, I told you intro somewhere the dates are waiting a few weeks, and even up to a few months to submit the request. Not all persons who reported to our diplomatic consulates would have come to order if this law hadn't been passed and the deadline extended. And that is the point that in the next year and I hope to improve the epidemiological situation that all persons can submit their claims on the legal basis of these two articles, Art. Article 5 30a..
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80451	Representative Ban Vlahek has broken the Rules of Procedure, and what has the Rules of Procedure been injured in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80452	Art. 238, no, we haven't got the right answer yet, but we haven't got the right answer yet. My question was, the deadlines for handover have already been completed in advance, how long are the papers expected to continue waiting for handover? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80453	Okay, you get a warning right now because it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure in accordance with Art. 239. The next replica is the respected representative and vice president of this house, Miroslav Skora.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80454	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, I would never limit or set deadlines for the Croats if I could seek enrolment in Croatian citizenship, but the HDZ government did so and now ask for an extension of one year. I'm talking to you as a former diplomat and head of the DKP, so it can be delivered in person, we can arrange a request through some authorised representative, and it can be sent in the mail, and in the 21st century we have other means of communication, and we have electronic signatures. So what I'm interested in is why this has happened in the first place, which is why you're extending the deadline, is someone obviously not doing well in the DKPs their job, they haven't met people that they can apply for citizenship and other ways because as far as I know the mails work, so once you've put up a deadline, you have no reason to extend it, and there's no particular reason for the rush procedure, everyone who wanted to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80455	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80456	Mr. MP, I repeat for several more times, this applies to a very narrow group of persons who are given the right, so persons who are entitled to Croatian citizenship, at least one parent, and have not used this right until their 21st year. So I can live another 2 years. Further, physical 2.g. submit that request. It's a relatively small number of people. This second group refers to persons born between '77. and in '91, whose parents were Croatian citizens, but they were registered with someone else's citizenship in another republic of the former state. All others can apply for citizenship as well as before without any deadlines whenever they decide to join the Croatian diplomatic consular office or police stations and administrations in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80457	Here's the esteemed representative, Skoro, who's been in violation of the Rules of Procedure, in what way has the Rules of Procedure been injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80458	... I know I'm gonna get a warning, but here's an article. 238, so it's still the post office, so we're talking about a technical problem, right? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I understand what you're saying, but in this whole story, someone just doesn't do their job well, someone doesn't tell people you can personally, you can go through the middleman authorized and you can go through the mail. So that's the technical thing that stands and doesn't stand at all for an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80459	Yes, unfortunately, I also have to give you a heads-up on this one, so let's move on, dear representative Barbaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80460	I thank the esteemed Vice President HS, the esteemed Secretary of State. One more technical clarification, namely in the light of these amendments and the addition of the Law on Croatian Citizenship to Art. Paragraphs 5 and 2 are replaced by the following: 30a. St. 2. It is a bit vague, so can people who are interested and want to gain Croatian citizenship and submit a request next year for the 2nd or 10th month, or only those who have made themselves known by the end of this year, and are waiting for the term in the following year?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80461	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80462	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, anyone who is seen in the provisions of this law and proves that, that he submits his application based on these two articles at any time, has not had to appear at all, if the deadline extended, he may normally appear in January, May or December of next year. So, anyone who has a right, and whether or not it's been reported by now, the deadline goes on for a year. And requests for Croatian citizenship are not submitted by mail and I hope they will never be submitted through mail, but personally to see who it is, not to be able to win anyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80463	Dear representative Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80464	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, here from the materials attached we see that there were around 2000, not in fact about 4300 total requirements for, for Croatian citizenship, but about 300 applies to art. The 30th century of the 2nd law. So now that we're looking at all these requirements for Croatian citizenship, do you know maybe which countries they come from most often and see that there are a lot of received demands and what kind of relationship has been resolved or have they been positively solved, how many people have received Croatian citizenship based on these articles in the first place? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80465	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80466	Dear Madam MPs, the demands are filed, we have requests from different countries, according to the article. The 5th century 2 can come and come from almost all countries in smaller numbers, compared to this article. 30a, these are mainly from the territory of the former Yugoslavia because it also refers to the former country from which it has fallen apart to a number of new independent states. On this legal basis, a significant number of requests do not meet the conditions for determining Croatian citizenship and this is based on those which are now submitted and processed, that are in the process or completed, somewhere between 55 and 60% of the negative requirements. So, a little less than half of it has been solved positively so far, the rest of them don't have, they don't meet the requirements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80467	Dear Representative Zekonovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80468	Your Honor, Secretary of State. One simple question, I hope to get an answer. How many Croatian citizens in the world are there on the globe? We have a list of voters, he says there are 3,680,000 voters. I think that, that number should be connected to the number of citizens. I have never heard in my life how many citizens there are on the globe, Croatian citizens, so here's the answer to that question, so how many Croatian citizens in the world are there. I'm not interested in the census, I'm interested in the number of Croatian citizens in the world. I think it's clear enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80469	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80470	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. I'm not authorized here, I can't and I don't know the correct answer. I can answer your question about how many foreign citizens have been admitted into Croatian citizenship in these 30 years of application of the Law on Croatian Citizenship and that naturalisation, so 1,102,000 people have been admitted, in total in 30 years and 2 months, of which 710 000 people as members of the Croatian people. By naturalization, therefore, not all those who were born in the meantime, as well as, and as children by their parents acquired citizenship in origin. So your children, my children or anyone whose children of Croatian citizens, they don't count there, people are born, they acquire citizenship by origin, they die, and that number is, I can't exactly answer you right now, but by naturalization I've given you numbers, 1,102,000 total so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80471	A colleague of Zekanovic's committed the same violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80472	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, 238, here I am at risk of warning, here I would just like to warn the Secretary of State that this is a key piece of information because I don't really know, here, let anyone tell me how many voters in Croatia are defined at all, if we don't know, if the Ministry of the Interior doesn't know what the total number of citizens are. How can we figure out one number without knowing another number? Here, now you can ask Minister Malenica and Minister Bozinovic together, on what basis you have determined The number of voters if we don't know the number of citizens? [[Good. Of course, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80473	...that you get a warning too, there are possibilities of communication with the Secretary of State and others, not abuse of the Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure. Please don't do this. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. Then I open the debate and first, on behalf of the Club of Representatives, the Mosta will speak to the esteemed representative Marija Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80474	Dear colleagues and colleagues, here, since Friday is and I'm a little animated with this few audience, let me have a stylish deviation in the presentation of this content, so now I'm going to introduce you to one drama in three acts. Act one. The sun is shining, optimism is growing, and this government has taken over the historic task on its back. It will restore Croatia's emigration, Croatian emigration, the spirit of Croatia to Croatia. This government is precisely because of the reason that our South Americans would return, as we could hear, amend the law and introduce provisions that allow you to receive Croatian citizenship through your parents. We see many impatient young South Americans who can't wait to board overseas ships and return to Croatia, just as their parents once were forced to leave their homeland with their bellies. This government has taken on the historic task of restoring emigrantism, and apparently it does it very successfully. Moreover, it makes it so successful that it must extend the deadline, which is the goal of these legal changes, so that all those who rushed to the consular offices will come to order because so many are those who cannot wait to become citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Act number two. The HS session in April this year. Dragana Jeckov asks Davor Bozinovic, the respected Croatian Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Bozinovic. My question concerns the pre-inclusive period which was set by new amendments to the Law on Croatian Citizenship, which came into force in early 2020. These two years expire at the end of this 2021. After that, stakeholders will not be able to submit this request under this Law. Otherwise, that period of 2 years would be sufficient, but because of the circumstances that have occurred, and as far as the coronaryvirus and the Banian and Zagreb earthquakes are concerned, this process is definitely complicated and my question to you have you considered in your ministry the extension of this pre-exclusive period which, as I said, was 2 years, which is due to objective circumstances indeed which existed. Thank you. Davor Bozinovic answers, thank you, well-respected representative Jeckov, that it is true that in this law and so on, to sum up, everyone who submits a request by the end of this year they are inside the eye, and will solve when it is resolved, so he did not give a decidated answer. What Dragana Jeckov will answer to, I am partly pleased with your answer because I wish I had heard that, it will be extended. That's when Dragana Jeckov didn't hear it. And we come to the plot of this drama, October of this year the opposition is uniting itself in one justified request to end the anti-legislative process of electing the head director of HRT in a key role is now the main actor Milorad Pupovac he is coming for this pay phone in a dramaticly elaborated approach and is not sure whether he will give his support to the ruling to elect Schweb as head director of HRT. Yes, Milorad Pupovac is not sure, Milorad Pupovac was convincing we really thought he could surprise us, as much as my family fell some bets on it. The solution to this peak is familiar, but it's not the outcome of this drama. Milorad Pupovac said he would support the ruling majority. Act 3, November or December of this year, because we are now discussing, changes to the law are coming by a hasty procedure, Dragana Jeckov may be satisfied but this deadline will continue. During the discussion in HS, MP Marija Selak Rasdic stands up and asks the secretary of state, happy about so many requests from other countries' citizens to become citizens of the Republic of Croatia that demographics are a key problem that we are facing and that we really need as many of those who will be our citizens to survive and ask for a little more information about this joyous news and tells us who is anxiously waiting for the office to become a citizen of the Republic of Croatia. There's a response from the department, so it's our South Americans in the first row, and then there's some of those who are from the former Republic. And now, after this three-act drama, the all-knowing narrator or the ancient crust depends on which type of drama you preferred, this can also be a libretto for an opera, given all the witty elements that are present. Representative Mosta's club, this is Kor, June 10, 2021. He asked the question about giving us an answer grouped to diplomatic missions, consular offices of the Republic of Croatia on the legal basis which is now being changed to art. 5th and Art. The 30th of this law is where the biggest number of demands came from, who's waiting in line. The secretary of state may not know, but I have that information. Belgrade 843 demands Banja Luka only 235, South America none. Here's to cheer you up, but three demands have arrived from Chicago and even one request from Dublin. And here are two full Americans in Washington waiting to return to the Republic of Croatia. To be clear, I would be pleased that from any country someone decided to become a citizen of the Republic of Croatia and come to live in Croatia, but I would like to hear the answer to the question of how many of these requirements were before 2013. and is it that someone really wants to become a citizen of the Republic of Croatia or wants that happy transit European passport? But by putting all this aside and even that strange provision that nationality is hereditary, and it is a matter of choice in democracy, the only question that has made me present this drama and that I am really interested in the answer, but the truth of the answer, and not this false statistics that we had previously heard from the ministry is whether Croatian citizenship is being traded in HS-U? Is it costing one hand of minority representatives of this legislative amendment, which they hoped would only be voted on at the same time and without debate now before the vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80475	The next one will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns, a respected representative and vice president of this house, Miroslav Škoro.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80476	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. No matter what few of us are, and this is almost a nomotechnical thing, it is still a very important law and should be said that we are the Law on Croatian Citizenship since '91. until today, you have changed and complemented several times, last time in 2019, as you have said with these last changes and additions to that famous article. 5 In fact, we have put that period of 2 years, i.e. the HDZ Government has limited the period of 2 years, and then put 21 years to ask for admission into Croatian citizenship and the deadline expires in 28 days. We will discuss this today, and at the next vote we will extend that deadline in a year. The proposed amendments and additions do not affect the importance of obtaining Croatian citizenship but only extends that deadline, and as I said in the replica to you, Mr. Secretary of State, a request for admission to Croatian citizenship can be submitted either personally or through the proxies to the manual minutes or through the mail recommended by the shipment. I was a general consul a long time ago, but I still remember, so we don't solve anything there. We are only there the same post office and our diplomatic and consular service accepts these demands, sends them to a resolution in the Republic and then issues a solution, I remember that very well because there, in the 1990s, we had to put many times people to theirs, to those demands that they had to pay, to give solutions to which we generally refused them. It can also be submitted by mail, the day of surrender is then the day of submission of the request, therefore, the day the work and the request in the procedure and the mail work took place. So there's no need for haste, and we could have handled it differently. And as I said, I am in favour of the fact that Croats are never limited to the possibility of gaining Croatian citizenship. And that's where I'm supposed to stop right now, but I'm going to use the remaining time to say some things in terms of this subject. Namely, I consider the end of any law, as well as this to be the end of a suit. It's simply a necessary evil and temporary solution and sometimes you have to buy a new suit. So we'll extend the deadline, but we'll still have probably a bad law and we can't be satisfied with it because it's important, determines a lot of things, and when it was quality, it would solve a lot of things. Nationality is a privilege, and not in my opinion, a good law on citizenship would be an excellent basis for necessary changes, for example in electoral legislation. That is why I dare say that we need a new whole law that will set a course for the future, especially when it comes to Croatian emigration, no matter what anyone thinks about it. Also, the Law on Croatian Citizenship can be one of the instruments, according to counterpart Selak Rasdic, to repair the damaged demographic picture of Croatia. Members of Croatian people who are emigrants from the Republic of Croatia and live in different countries of the world where they are already living, will find it difficult to leave their stable and orderly material and situational states and incomes, in order to return to Croatia where the poor investment climate, bureaucracy, corruption, clientism, nepotism, and, of course, the political power is not exceeded. So we can create a change in these conditions, actually, for their return, but first of all, we need to focus on creating conditions so that people no longer leave us and prevent further emigration. Only improving these conditions will it be possible to attract Croatian emigrants to eventually return and continue their lives in their homeland. I am also of the opinion that members of the Croatian people should be made to make it easier for them to acquire Croatian citizenship. According to the Constitution, Croatia is primarily the state of the Croatian people, so the national state, all its citizens, political Croats, is it? And the Croats make up 90% of the population here regardless of their ethnic background, we are, of course, the state of all those who live here. The national state is an notion that originally refers to a country where one nation prevails and is made up of territory, people and state power. For most of the modern states, we can say that the national states, whether when most citizens belong to an ethnic group like us or for example, France, Germany, Italy or when they built their national identity, are also those countries that have many different linguistic, religious and ethnic groups, but have developed their national identity, such as the USA, China, VB, etc. Nationality is a fundamental legal relationship or legal relationship between an individual and a state that makes all economies, social, civil and, in particular, political rights, such as electoral law, public service reception, etc. available to that individual under appropriate obligations. The status of citizens is generally independent of whether a person is actually in the area of the state. That's how it's supposed to be, even though it's not like that for us. The Croatian Constitution stipulates that a Croatian citizen cannot be expelled from Croatia or his citizenship can be taken away. Legislatives often accept the principle of the exclusion of citizenship, as well as the Law on Croatian Citizenship of '91. prescribes that a Croatian citizen who also has foreign citizenship in front of the authorities is considered exclusively Croatian citizens. The law on Croatian citizenship does not recognise the notion of dual citizenship, does it, although in practice it often meets. Double citizenship is a status in which a person is at the same time considered a citizen of more than one state under the laws of those countries. So we should make a new law next. Therefore, we must introduce a greater liberalisation of Croatian citizenship to members of the Croatian people, but a restriction on the existence of dual citizenship should also be introduced. In doing so, I would like to point out, you correct me if I am wrong, that this restriction of dual citizenship cannot be done to members of the Croatian people and that is based on the provisions of the Constitution, but all others can and should be done. This means that citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are not members of the Croatian people who are resident in Croatia should be given the choice that citizenship wants to choose. If they commit to another option, they should be deleted from the register of Croatian citizens. So that's what I think the law should solve. The Croatians who have dual citizenship cannot take it away, but those who are not members of the Croatian people should therefore take that citizenship if they have someone else and decide otherwise. Citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are not members of the Croatian people who are resident in another national state should be officially removed from the records of Croatian citizens. Members of the Croatian people who do not wish to give up their other citizenship should not participate in public service in so-called public service. I mean the police, the defence, the judiciary and the finances. Therefore, every Croatian citizen who has and any other citizenship should be prevented from performing any function in Croatia when it comes to police, defence, judiciary and finance until it is determined and denied. He should not be involved, of course, in neither the executive nor the judicial authority. That's my opinion. If we were to make such a law, he would be an assumption to show ourselves and others to our own country and our people. This is how we have a law in which many Croatian citizens are, especially when it comes to the consumption of second-row voting rights, because in all possible ways, when it is in the interests of the ruling citizens, it makes it impossible for them to consume their fundamental right, constitutional right, which is to be elected and elected, because they can only do so in the DKPs which are now the note of the reason why we are extending this deadline because they are overrun, and we know why all this is happening together and that this is not so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80477	The next Club of Representatives will be that of the SDSS, and Anja Shimprag, a respected representative, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80478	I would like to thank the Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, the Honorable colleagues and colleagues. On the subject of citizenship, the Club of Representatives of the SDSS spoke on several occasions and highlighted certain problems encountered in practice when applying this law either through a debate on the law itself, either through free speeches or, as counterpart Rasudic said, issues, issues to government members. The last Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Croatian Citizenship entered into force on the first day of 2020. Certain very important provisions include the deadline for submission of the request of 2.g. From the day of entry into force of the law mentioned, so until the end of this year. This means that individuals with the said date would lose the right to submit certain applications or would be legally eloquent in the rule of law. The amendments mentioned above and the amendments to the law have therefore been amended with the rest of the article. The 5th law, which contains a provision under which Croatian citizenship and persons older than 21. life, born abroad, whose parent is a Croatian citizen at the time of her birth if within 2.g. as from the date of entry into force of the law, a request for entry into the register of Croatian citizens shall be submitted, and the MUP shall determine that there are no obstacles to the art. Eight of this law. At the same time, the latest amendments to the law introduced a new provision. 30th century 2nd to which Croatian citizens are also considered as being born in the period from 8 January '77. until 8.10.1991. who at the time of birth of both parents had Croatian citizenship, but were registered with another nationality if within 2.g. as from the date of entry into force of the law, a request for the establishment of Croatian citizenship shall be submitted. Of course, when the law was passed, we couldn't even imagine all the unfortunate circumstances that were objective nature and that hit us in 2020, which unfortunately just continued. If I may say so, under normal living conditions of 2.g. would be more than enough for the parties to consume their rights, but earthquakes have further complicated the overall situation because it has already caused a lot of problems. He sought adaptation in different ways, including by changing the regime for the work of state and public bodies, as well as diplomatic consular offices of the Republic of Croatia abroad. All these changes had a clear and justified goal, to protect officials and parties from infection. Applications for the establishment of Croatian citizenship on those legal grounds are mainly submitted by persons who do not have an approved stay in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the entry into force of the aforementioned legal provisions with a limited time of application has led to an increase in the number of requests submitted through diplomatic missions or consular offices of the Republic of Croatia abroad, with the obligation to respect the epidemiological measures of the State in which they are established and to comply with the prescribed measures. According to the law, the parties to the country of residence were instructed to make appointments for the arrival of embassies or consulates, and given the number of interested parties, it was known to wait several months, in some situations and over 6. In addition to that fact, the first term in certain representations was exclusively advisory even though it was what I said waited for months. On this occasion, the parties would have received several recommendations after which they could make payments to the necessary fees and schedule a new term, if they were not a deterrent from applying because they were suggested to have no basis for exercising the right to Croatian citizenship under the law without further elaborated. No matter what, in the last 2 years. More than 4400 applications have been submitted to the law. That's where we come into another problem. In addition to the time period mentioned in the provisions of the law, which is a restrictive exercise in the practice of all these same provisions, the Ministry of Interior has published instructions on the procedure on its website, explaining the procedure at the request of acquisition, the request for termination or establishment of Croatian citizenship. Art. The 5th century of the 2nd century says that Croatian citizenship and a person older than the 21st century is acquired by origin. life born abroad whose parent is a Croatian citizen at the time of birth if within 2.g. as from the date of entry into force of this law, a request for entry into the register of Croatian citizens shall be submitted. However, although the provision is cited clearly and unambiguously, in the abovementioned instructions on the procedure, it gave another part that did not come out of the law or sublegal acts, which is that the cited legal provision applies only to persons born after 8.10.1991. i.e. after the entry into force of the Law on Croatian Citizenship. According to us, the controversial application of the birth criteria is after 8.10.1991. in the sense of Art. Article 5(2) of the Law as this has led to the exclusion of a number of persons from the circle of authorising officers who can consume the rights provided for in Article 2. The 5th century of the 2nd Law. Where the provisions of Article 2 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 are not complied with, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. Paragraph 5 of the Law, i.e. that a person is older than 21. the life and extension of the text of the provision in the instructions on the procedure of the MUP, i.e. that the person was born after 8.10.1991. that provision applies on this day only to persons born from 9.10.'91. until 2.12.2000. as a provision applies to persons born after that date. The 5th century of the 1st Law. It is precisely because of this restrictive interpretation of the law that individuals have initiated proceedings before the administrative courts of the Republic of Croatia and are awaiting their epilogue. That's why we consider it an art. 5th century. 2nd century. The law on Croatian citizenship should be interpreted in a way that the right to obtain Croatian citizenship by origin, with the other conditions set out in the provision, shall be interpreted by those persons over the age of 21. life regardless of the date of birth or whether they were born before 8.10.'91. Since the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Croatian Citizenship have been accepted in some way by the appeal of our club for the extension of the two-year pre-emptive term of the SDSS club will support the adoption of the Law on Amendments to the Law on Croatian Citizenship in an urgent procedure, but we will continue to insist on a different interpretation of the article. The 5th century of the Law and seriously considered, we will consider submitting a proposal for a credible interpretation of the disputed provisions of the Law on Croatian Citizenship. And here I am now asking my colleague Selak Rasdic and my colleague Škor, would you mind applying from Argentina in a larger number than you are bothered by reports from Belgrade and Banja Luka? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80479	Thank you. We have several violations of the Rules of Procedure again, the first respected representative of Zekanovic, in what way has the Rules of Procedure been injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80480	Dear Vice President, of course. 238. I have to explain to the Croatian public what this is about. So, the hypothetically abolized Chetnik who was in '91, '95. He fled to Serbia in '99. Or in 2000, he had a child, for example. The son and son can today seek Croatian citizenship even though he is never in Croatia, with Croatia he has nothing to do with it, and his father is an abolized Chetnik. And my colleague says it's an excuse for being 2. A little because there was an earthquake in Zagreb, so this son of an abolized Chetnik couldn't go to an embassy in Belgrade and file a request for...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80481	Thank you very much. Uh, it's a replica, of course, it's not, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning. Next, the next violation of the Rules of Procedure, or a plate for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, was raised by a respected representative, Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80482	C. 238, where did you get the right of fellow Shimprag to accuse me of chauvinism and to hide your political trade behind the fact that you were going to tell me, unequivocally, that no one bothers me to accuse me of disturbing Serbs? You won't get away with it. The only thing that bothers me in this, and I made that clear, is the political trade and you're not gonna make it here to make sacrifices, but you're just because of that political trade you're the winners here, and we're the victims here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80483	Thank you. And it was a replica, not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning. And the esteemed representative of Skoro and the vice president of this house has also raised the same violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80484	I did, Mr. President. I was named by name and last name. Dear fellow Shimprag, I do not see the meaning of your sentence at all. I have no objection to anyone applying for Croatian citizenship, it is being handled in the process before the competent state authorities, so who will win. Don't put me in that context, it's yours, of course, to raise your hand for Mr. Plenkovic, and mine is to defend my integrity and honor, and Mr. Zekanovic's brush doesn't have to be embossed, he can be a real brush and he'll get his baby again.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80485	Thank you. And that, of course, was not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, but a replica, so you get a warning. Let's get back to work now, and on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club, the respected representative Davorko Vidovic will speak for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80486	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Assembly, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Well, here's when these topics come up on the agenda, then it still feels like it's just a 30-year-old discomfort. when it comes to who can, who can, and how to live in our country. Although it was somewhat understandable in the 1990s when we became both a fact-finding and officially independent state on October 8th to pass a law on citizenship as a fundamental law which actually regulates I would say this is a fundamental form of expression of the nation of the state and this is the most important document that determines who can and who cannot be a member and full citizen, who must possess the knowledge, who and how can cross the borders, etc., if that discomfort was somewhat understandable in the 1990s, and I must say '21. Obviously, what we've heard today in the debate shows that this discomfort is persistent and that, in fact, it's always pulling a little bit, I'd say something that's really anachronous. Dr. Sc. Razludić Selak, Selak Rasludić and Dr.sc. Now, although very, very carefully and very thoughtfully, it seems to me, however, that I personally think that the attitudes that actually have no more space and are really, we have to say, quite out of date. Not to pollemize too much, I don't take the time, with dr. In the course of determining citizenship by or by differentiating people by the criteria of blood and soil, ethnicity when it comes to state, when it comes to fundamental certain rights, such as the right to dual citizenship, I find it rather delicate when it comes to human rights and freedoms and I think we can leave it for the two of us to discuss, but I think that it is a dangerous, dangerous thesis. This law is not in itself too controversial because it technically extends the period for the reasons that you have stated, however, it really points to serious questions about how and in what way we intend to create our policy in the future, so first of all, I would say migration policy, although we did not have until this year any strategic development document that is supposed to formulate and migration strategies, now that we have this 2030 strategy, I think that the time has come to really tackle the issue of migration strategy. In the 1990s, the great sentiments and one of the key political mantras were what was called, unification or not, the merger of the evicted Croatian homeland when one myth ruled that the evicted Croats who, by some estimates, were about 3.../incomprehensible/... about 2 million and 600 thousand Croats and their descendants, would masseuse in Croatia, bring their money, capital. It did not happen and obviously that it should not be given up, but there is no need to hope that such a mass return of Croats is simply because, because we now have an independent Croatian state, that it will happen, it will not happen. On the other hand, I feel like I'm listening to these debates that one part of people really is completely trash with the mind of what kind of world we live in and what's really going on around us. According to some serious demographic estimates by 2050, in just 30 years, the movement will, for climate reasons, be around 50 to 60 million Africans from sub-Saharan Africa, Mali, Chad, Niger, and there will be people heading towards Europe. It's been waiting for us for the next 30 years, some will live, maybe even me. At the same time at this time somewhere around 900 million people are in motion, 220 million migrants live in the world and today when we think and talk about this ethnic composition, Switzerland has 20, over 23% of Swiss people who are not born in Switzerland, Ireland 15%, France somewhere around 11%, Germany 12.5, etc., and if we have no awareness that without serious immigration policy, we simply won't be able to function at this point comes into question the sustainability of any concept of development in this country because we simply don't have enough people. Without employees of 1,900 000, 2,000 million people, we are very difficult to support our needs in the system of health care, pension system, etc. So let's count on the need to have an overly, comprehensible and clear migration strategy, that we have to identify ourselves according to who and how and how we would like to attract to come live in Croatia. Indeed, it does not seem a problem to me, and it is obvious to someone that thousands of people of our descendants, our Serbs in Belgrade or Banja Luka want Croatian citizenship. Well, I think it's certainly good news for Croatia, that someone wants to come to our country no matter what, whether it's a motive that counterpart Rasdic mentions, comes to the EU, so it's going to be some sort of passing stage. In addition, it is possible that 10, 20 or not know how many years Serbia will also be members of the EU and will be able to come here to live and work whoever it wants from Serbia, either from Ireland or from France, Belgium, Luxembourg. So let's not be afraid of it. Let's not take this ethnic criterion more than we should give up on it, it's the easiest thing to do, it's the easiest thing to integrate members of our own people, either as descendants, it's the cheapest, simplest integration, and if our emigrants from South America don't know and don't need to know either the Croatian language or God knows what about culture, etc. But we have to count on that we won't, that we're this beautiful piece of land, planet Earth, and it can't be just a place in which ethnic Croats and I, who I am in '91, will live. As a volunteer, I can say that our countrymen, Serbs are very welcome, especially those who had no influence or participated in any way in the aggression, that they are welcome, welcome to Croatia as a country or their birth or birth of their parents. Let's get this story out of the way. Listen, here's some debate I remember Guy Lyudevit Yonke, Lissinski, Shenoe, Herman Bolle, Runjanin, these are unethnic Croats who have enormously in debt to Croatian culture and us as a nation and us as a state. We get rid of it, and I fear this discomfort that always smells of xenophobia, we get rid of it, it is very dangerous, it is narrow-minded, and ultimately very harmful to Croatia's interests and we as Croats as ethnic groups and Croats as a nation. I am convinced that in the coming period that this issue will no longer be able to be bypassed and since Croatia has historically been an immigration country we could become a very nearly country attractive to move in and I think we should not be able to solve things on the walk but we should also be able to countercipe with a quality migration strategy. Here is what I would like to say about this law that we will support as a Social Democrats club and once again point out the appeal, the request, however you want the Croatian Government to address this issue in a serious, responsible and long-term sustainable way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80487	On behalf of the HDZ club, a respected representative, Nevenko Barbaric, will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80488	I thank the esteemed vice president of HS. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, in the light of these amendments and the addition of the Law, it is stated that the application is submitted mainly by persons born abroad without the right to stay in the Republic of Croatia. Who are these Croats outside the Republic of Croatia? It is not uprooted, so these are the constructive people in BiH, the Croats as a constituent people in BiH are Croatian minorities in European countries and that is Croatian emigration in the overseas and European countries, their descendants can be with Croatian citizenship, with the status of Croats without Croatian citizenship and without status and without citizenship, there are such. And here... I will also... that Croatian citizenship, the conditions for its acquisition and termination are governed by the Law on Croatian Citizenship and that the last amendments and additions of the law are in force from 1.1.2020. Amendments to the Law on Croatian Citizenship which we are discussing today, as regards art. 5th and 2nd and Article 2nd respectively. In the 30th century, the word two is replaced by the word three, so it's thought of the years of valuable law. The articles mentioned above have been repeated several times after this speaker, so in the last amendments and additions to the Croatian Citizenship Act, it has been amended with the rest of the article. 5. which contains provisions under which the origins of Croatian citizenship and persons over 21 years of age are born abroad whose one of the parents is a Croatian citizen at the time of birth if within two years of the date of entry into force of the applicable law until the end of the current 2021. submits a request for registration of a Croatian citizen, the MUP Republic finds that there are no legal obstacles. Also in the last amendments and additions to the 2019 law on Croatian citizenship to the proposal of the Croatian Defence Ministry in Art. 30th Croatian citizen is considered missing and deadlyly injured Croatian defender on 8.10.1991. which has no record of Croatian citizens. A Croatian citizen is also considered a person born in the period 8.1.'77.-8.10.'91. which, at the time of birth, both parents had Croatian citizenship, but was registered second in their citizenship records if, within two years of the date of entry into force of this law by 1.1.2020 until the end of '21. submits a request for the establishment of citizenship. I repeat, in both of the articles in question, the application deadline is the end of 2021. It is also important to note that according to the articles in force, the application for entry into the register of Croatian citizens is mainly submitted by persons born abroad without permission to stay in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the request is submitted in diplomatic and consular representations of the Republic of Croatia abroad. As the application of this law is thus close to the beginning of the pandemic in 1.1.2020, and respect for the various restrictive measures in many countries, there has been a stalemate and inability for all those who wanted to secure a term in diplomatic and consular representations of the Republic of Croatia to apply for enrolment in the register of Croatian citizens. According to the data provided by the MUP, a total of 4.323 requests have been received in these two years if I have well summed up, of which almost half 1,868 are based on art. 5th century 2. and some 300 requirements based on Article 2. The 30th century of the 2nd Law. These amendments to the law in Art. The 5th and 30th formal extension of the period of application for a year shall be made possible by submitting applications and persons who have already addressed the relevant diplomatic missions of the Republic of Croatia abroad with the intention of applying for Croatian citizenship under those legal basis and who have not received an appointment in this year, and here in the opening State Secretary explained that the application will be able to be submitted for those who have not made themselves known by the end of 2021, so that they will be able to do so during the year 2022. The purpose of adopting the applicable amendments and supplementing the law is that those who wish to do so exercise the right, and therefore a reasonable reason is also for these amendments and the extension of the deadline of one year, the HDZ Club will support this extension of the deadline, these amendments and the addition of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80489	Now, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Arsen Bauk, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80490	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The day before yesterday, Dinamo and Rijeka played at the Croatian Cup quarterfinals at the stadium in Maksimir. There were 22 football players, 11 of whom, not most of whom had Croatian citizenship. On the same day in Madrid, Real Madrid and Athletic Bilbao played the pride of the Spanish royal crown with 2 Spanish citizens on the team, and the pride of Baskia performed with 11 Spanish citizens on the team, however, they were either born in Baska or those whose ancestors were of Basque origin. They eased Athletic Bilbao's stance in the 1980s, and then they could play those players who grew up football in Baska unimportant. Here's what the Croatian Citizenship Act is about. When it comes to money, who can do it, and when it's left, then some criteria are set. In this case, the SDP Club will support these minor amendments to the law, although given the number listed I do not see at all the need to impose a restriction, so it will not, as the army will not fail because of that gunner on Hvar, so neither will the Croatian state fail if those who have not yet applied for citizenship do so in 2025, not 2023 or '22, but well maybe in a year then again, because the pandemic may not have extended this deadline. I would like to remind my inspired colleague Selak Rasudiæ also a little bit, a little bit so literaryly and creatively of each other, let's say another season and your story that might remind this Kafkin Transformation, so the man lives in Croatia for 30 years, serves the army, has children, starts a family and then wakes up one day, goes somewhere and then tells him, and no, your parent is so somewhere in '40. and some year last century was registered in the queen not in Croatia but in BiH, your second parent in Macedonia you don't really have Croatian citizenship 15 days to go to your country where you should be, that was the same case, which is why as the parliamentary majority at the time we encouraged and helped the representative of today's parliamentary majority Veljak Kajtazi to propose in July 2015 and in September 2015 that the Assembly and adopt amendments to the Law on Croatian Citizenship where this single injustice to the part of Croatian citizens who at one point stopped being citizens would be corrected. There was no store, that's what we did out of conviction. These may be trading today, we're not, you don't have to be afraid here. And imagine how important this was for us that we were in the last session of the assembly before the disband, when many other laws, the laws were ultimately waiting, in the end they were not even adopted because we were no longer able to form a parliamentary majority at which HDZ MOST-sustaining would be grateful but now it's another story. So the story of the Law on Croatian Citizenship always has this and concrete human destiny, and now it's mostly about younger people who were born, who were certainly not adult in '91, and some were not even born where you have one group that can get Croatian citizenship, and that was never in Croatia or another group that has problems with obtaining Croatian citizenship even though they may have spent most of their lives in Croatia or at least parents lived in Croatia. It is, of course, an opportunity to re-evaluate the memories of this as much as who and how much is, who is such a Croat politically or non-politically. So, if I understood correctly once in the club exposure we would have biological Croats and political Croats, these biological Croats could have two citizenships, and political Croats only have one. Did I get that right? Now, how do you become a political and biological Croat? So the political Croat becomes so that the state gives you the housekeeper, and the biological Croat becomes so that one morning you wake up and you say I'm a Croat. Did I get that criterion right? That's interesting, though, this one I'm not sure would have passed this constitutional court provision if the Croats, that all Croatian citizens are equal before the law. That's a pretty interesting, interesting question. I also thought about solving some problems by abolishing dual citizenship, but I gave it up. So, so you wouldn't be, you don't need to talk about it, by doing too much of this anymore. This is therefore a small number of future Croatian citizens who are in total number of Croatian citizens in prominence. Of course, this political platform can be done as a few hundred same-sex couples have called a referendum, okay, all that's possible, but I think it's more unnecessary at this point. We did not support the latest amendments to the Law on Croatian Citizenship, we thought it was an unnecessary ethic centrist approach. As this is the case in this case, it is about those whom the Republic of Croatia has said by its law that they have the right to citizenship not to extend this right but only to give them more time to exercise their right and I don't see why the restriction is now until the end of the next year when it can be this and longer. We will support these amendments to the law. We would like, of course, that the amendments to the Law on Croatian Citizenship go away if they can't pass in spirit as we used to say brotherhood and unity then go through at least in the spirit of how it's being said together today, that there's not much of us, that we're getting more and more out of the only country, that many of our fellow citizens today may in a few months of their home, apartments and places where they live today replace some foreign home where they might not be better, and that maybe they won't, and that the sun of other people's sky is always getting a little worse, and that we start thinking about how to be more, how to get Croatia to get better health care to get doctors who might have finished colleges somewhere else, to get this better education to get teachers from teachers who might have finished their colleges and learn their jobs and all that we still need to bring in our labour to liberalise the Law on citizenshipship. This is something that is waiting for us otherwise we will always have no excuse for people, and then some other countries will take the personnel we have, all Croatian citizens or at least those who pay taxes paid for their education. According to my conclusion, the Croat is nice to any nation if he has a housekeeper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80491	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSS and RF, the Honorable Representative of Kresho Beljak will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80492	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Let me say a few sentences about this law on behalf of the Assembly Representatives Club of HSS and RF. First of all, I think the general law on obtaining Croatian citizenship is ridiculous. There are countries that have very restrictive measures in obtaining citizenship, but these are countries where everyone would like to come and all want to become, or a large part of people want to become citizens of these countries, such as the United States. There are countries that stimulate in various ways people who will improve their age structure of the population. First of all, the Western Europe in which we belong is an old, therefore old nation. There are countries that are open, and look at the devil, they are also open countries and the most developed countries, and those that are closed and are least developed. Croatia is about this closed state and what is worse than anything else is that we are closed, so this law also proves that with these minimal changes that we will support, but it will not mean anything, but Croatia is a state that is closed, which is not stagnating, but which fails not only with numbers. I'll tell you, so we can talk numbers. We're a million less than 30 years old, so cca. A million people less than 4 million and 700 and something, almost 800, according to unofficial data 3 million and 800. So that's a small part of the problem, a huge problem, but a smaller part of the problem. The age structure of the population has been disastrously disrupted in the way it was 30 years ago, which means that there are more and more older people and fewer young people, and more and more of these young people are leaving the country for a variety of reasons not to go into certain things now, certain other political things that make them go away, but they are leaving, and those who would possibly want to, and they are few, coming to Croatia, they are making it impossible in any way, and especially not in a way, especially in a way that makes citizenship practically possible for a variety of reasons. One banal example. My friend married a woman from Macedonia, normally living in Croatia 7 or 8 years old, the lady is not yet a Croatian citizen, yet. So, amazing things, while on the other hand, of course, we have a whole series of international criminals who have Croatian passports or citizenship back in the '90s, and that's been handing over and hating money, so unheard criminals who have nothing to do with Croatia. Apropo of what my colleague Bauk said, some may have money, and mobsters have money, so they won first. Throughout history, which are even Croats, which is, what is a biological Croat, which is a political Croat, what are we as a country of heritage? We are the heritage of some sort of French revolution and modern civilization that doesn't determine who's doing what by blood, but who's what by feeling or if necessary? So it's France that first introduced what we're holding on to today, that Mr. Bauk was talking about brotherhood and unity, and there was something else, something else being mentioned, so these are some of the materials that we belong to, I guess we belong to this, under this law I don't see that we belong to. So, foreigners, who would that be, who in Croatia is all foreigner, let's do a little bit of dismembering the last names of just us parliamentary representatives, so a little bit of the origin of the last name and those who, regardless of who felt like Croats, Serbs, minorities, anything, which is all of them, are biological Croats by not knowing which knee, which we are, where we are, what we are thinking. So this reminds me of some evidence that was sought in Germany until the 7th generation, Aryan origin or Croatian origin of that dear lady and gentlemen do not exist in Croatia. First, you can't find the data, and if you could find it, there'd be all kinds of unpleasant surprises, if you looked at your origins, the origins of your blood, etc. among pure Croats, very many surprises and vice versa. In my view, therefore, Croatian citizenship should be permanently acquired for those who were born in the territory of Croatia, regardless of everything else. Whoever is born in Croatia must have the right to Croatian citizenship without any deadlines, without any deadlines, and I would even extend it to parents, possibly grandparents and grandparents. On the other hand, I'm against double citizenship and it's very open. Anyone who lives in Croatia, who has or who has Croatian citizenship cannot have another state's citizenship, we have solved everything and then there will be no demands, and we know what requirements this is about if we see by numbers, so it's about people of the Serbian nation who don't want to go to Croatia, they want Croatian citizenship so they can go to the EU, so it's very simple. Well, there's no problem, but then you can't have Serbian citizenship and we've solved everything then we'll talk about the political Croats, that you are then political Croats and should enable them because ladies and gentlemen aren't Serbs in Croatia since yesterday, but Serbs are now at the lowest percentage and total number level through written history. We don't know what happened 500 years ago because there are no relevant censuses. The first relevant list is there from 1857 if I am not wrong about the issue of methodology, but we can take a framework list from 1910. When Serbs were in the area of today's Republic of Croatia, they couldn't be calculated exactly, they weren't the same, so there was no East Srijem, there was no Baranja, there was no Međimurje where there were no Serbs, but in the area of so-called The three-day Kingdom of Dalmatia, Croatia and Slavonia were about 25% of the Orthodox population, and 25%, so that's one quarter. So to take today's borders to be one fifth, that's 20% again, we can't just give up these people regardless of the past in history and I don't know what, these people and the good part of them until 1941 were political Croats. You have the Internet, I'll direct you to the site... It seems to me where the data of the immigrants can be seen in the United States and there is a search engine by last name, you will see a typical Serbian or Orthodox or Croatian last name of people who moved to America between 1890 and 1910 where it is seen that they were declared as a religion of Serb otrodox, or Serbian Orthodox, and the nationality of Croatians, therefore they were obviously Croatian citizens, felt that they were Croats of Serbian or Orthodox faith, so they entered no... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The American typed them as he said, you can very easily check it out. Just don't check Dalmatia because then you'll find people who are Croats, pure Croatian Catholics who have not spoken to the Croats, but to the Dalmatians. So it is a question of what Croats are, when Croats are born and when in general Croatia is like an ethnic, ethnic feeling when it came into existence. Certainly not since the century seven, I assure you, certainly not, much later. In 1920, Stjepan Radic, when he first came from Mostar, said bridge Catholics do not know they are Croats at all. That's 1920 100 years ago. How did these people feel? Regionally, so what mattered was that it was faith, nothing else. Muslims were Turks, Catholics Latini, and Orthodox Serbs because the Serbian Orthodox Church was, it had nothing to do with the national feeling but a religious feeling. You have a whole series of villages in BiH and Croatia that are after '45. changed names to Gornja Špinica, Donja, Central etc., etc. which, by the age of 40 or earlier, were called Serbian, Latin, Turkish, there is therefore Mahal, or what is seen here is how people felt, not ethnic but religious. So, to conclude, if Croatia wants to be in the future to have the basis for being a developed state, we need to open up to the maximum, but of course set clear criteria. He who is born in Croatia is not allowed to and cannot by any law challenge Croatian citizenship, it does not exist anywhere in the world except in Croatia. I don't know where there's someone born in any country to challenge his citizenship. That's the first thing. The second thing, for foreigners who will be more and more, I mean the real foreigners who have nothing to do with Croatia, which we will need, should give them clear rules such as somewhere else, knowledge of Croatian language, knowledge of Croatian regulations, the Croatian Constitution and that is it. Nationality is gained by paying taxes, work and contribution to the community, not by national feeling because if we see that the real Croats are only those who feel so good, the good part of them who feel great Croatians are the worst enemies of Croatia because they have ruined and robbed in the last 30 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80493	We move to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to the respected representative Marija Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80494	Today, when you are told that you are a nationalist, it is the largest possible swearing, but since Beljak is headed in this direction, I will remind you that the nation was created in the 19th century and that it was then an emancipating category because it allowed people to be outside that circle that they normally cared about, and it concerned exclusively their own families united together by living under the same celestial vault in a particular geographical area and thus elections against someone who is in power. And today it talks about European identity is an open question and more debate is being held about whether exactly the national one is the last emancipating category within which solidarity arises where people can support each other and whether when we move on to transnational like the EU, we lose our identity and are no longer able to solidarity with others, Croats with Germans, Bulgarians or so on. However, due to limited time, I will not enter these historic debates even though they are extremely interesting. In fact, I remember that well, in the fifth base, my first five in geography was the answer to the question of how to become a Croat. And now everyone's talking because my parents are Croats, this, this, and they were spinning around, and I remembered that I also had relatives who also went after bread abroad, so suddenly I raised my hand and I snapped that I could choose it. And the teacher gave me an "A," and I remembered that lesson very well. So the nation can be chosen, so this whole debate about whether it is genetically defined as the law here assumes could lead us in a direction that for many might be undesirable. I will return to relations within the ruling majority and through these legal changes, I think there's a lot of reading out of them. There's been a lot of debate here about a deadline that's short, now something has extended and what's most interesting about him is that it's temporary. Did anyone ever wonder why HDZ gave the provisional deadline? And he obviously gave it up for some reason. Well, my interpretation would be next and since we are in this Polish mood today, now I'm going to play a little bit of Kasandre- Since HDZ wanted to be honest and simultaneously attach to its own electoral body, he wanted to temporarily commit to a trade agreement to the greatest extent of the Serbs, we saw that statistics show that they get Croatian citizenship, more likely this passport for Europe and then here's Kasandrovski, hoping in that future in the next elections, we get rid of the minority partner and close that pipe. And that's probably why this deadline is temporary because HDZ wanted and hoped to be both honest and courteous to its electoral body. In addition to this interpretation that we are currently offering about the temporaryity of this deadline, which is unusually who, someone may ask whether these legal changes are logical,... statistics. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The HDZ does not want to say what number of citizens asked for Croatian citizenship to the greatest extent. The HDZ is obviously ashamed of this information, what else to conclude? And then I return the ball to my fellow Shimprag who is now missing and ask them if they have the spine and are ashamed of those partners who are ashamed of them and remind them that they really represent Serbs in Croatia. As far as the rest of this is concerned, this cheap attempt to discredit and differentiate us who are really troubled by political trade and who have argued the way it happens here that if we criticize the work of the government or this legal amendment we hate Serbs or if we criticize the work of the headquarters, then we do not believe in the existence of the pandemic, we see pink elephants and we expect all people to be chipped, we will not pass and criticise ourselves by such an attempt of moral blackmailing a colleague and colleagues will not be extinguished. But I'm going to end up optimistic. Comrade Bauk, you alone propose an amendment to fully abolish this deadline so we will see what HDZ does and as far as the demands of fellow Shimpraga are concerned, I have no doubt that we can expect them to implement the third legal changes, which will give me a chance to write some new drama again. So, I can just say as well as any follow-up, see you. Or I'll be back.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80495	We have several replicas, the first of which is a respected representative of the Beljaks.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80496	Thank you very much. My colleague Rasudiæ, I congratulate you on the fifth because I was a geography teacher for many years, and I would give you an "A" for that, it's only a guilty topic, you know, they asked you whether a teacher or teacher asked you how to become a Croatian, not how to get Croatian citizenship. So, you can choose and I can choose or you can be an American, but you won't get American citizenship. So that's the wrong subject, so I don't know why you even mention it. And as for the very process of the formation of nations, national states, I will discuss it in free speech. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80497	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80498	I mention this for a very specific reason, and this is because exactly the extension of the time limit that applies to these two articles, points out your origin as what is the prerequisite for obtaining citizenship, so of course you must always meet certain conditions to become a citizen of any state, e.g. in this case, the conditions are genetic. So, who your parents were, that's why you'll be able to get citizenship. There is then a legitimate question of whether any citizenship should be genetically inherited or by working within a country, you can submit a request after some time and become a citizen of that country, such as some genetic Croats became Swiss, etc. This is why emphasising this or asking questions about how citizenship should be acquired.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80499	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80500	Thank you very much. Here's a respected colleague, I'm taking the opportunity to repeat what you said in the presentation on behalf of the club, the data we didn't hear today from the secretary of state, or we heard about what you said, so otherwise the Secretary of State came up with some unprepared material, and he said that from South America and the rest of them there are a few from the former Yugoslavia, you said completely different data, so here's about 55-60% of the demands are negatively solved, as he said if he were to trust the secretary of state, what do you think, how many of these 4 and thousands of demands will come from how much positive they will be, how many will actually return to Croatia and what is the migration strategy of the Republic, which we can expect in all of these demands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80501	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80502	Thank you for asking, colleague Maric. I'm afraid that's where we're coming in right now to be a problem, which I partially touched in the debate on behalf of the club. Unfortunately, nothing. Even those Serbs seeking Croatian citizenship probably do so for pragmatic reasons. I said it would be interesting to see how many they wanted before 2013 because they needed a transit passport for that promised life in the EU. So it is not a question and many Croats are leaving today only the question is whether we are going to profit from these legal changes as a state in the sense that we are going to increase the number of our citizens as those who live here, pay taxes and help the welfare of the community. So here we are, and we're moving away from this issue of Serbs because it's the most, and that's what the secretary of state missed mention, if there's a growing number of South Americans, then the question can be asked whether because of our visa-free entry into America that's extremely important for that country or because somebody else is. Someone wants to become a Croat. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] I think the answer is clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80503	Your Honor, Mr. Skoro.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80504	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues Selak Rasudiæ is interesting from this position to watch some here still have to talk about this very important topic to look at in the floor. The important thing about the whole story is that you and I are probably among those people who are intolerably free, and that gets a lot of people nervous. They were here while you weren't in the parliamentary council called us that we are doctors of science that we are a little bit, perhaps even xenophobic, but I don't think they understand very wrongly terms like people, nations and states. They don't understand how important this nation is to form a nation that is as you yourself have said in history, then thanks to that nation that was affirmatively created by those countries that we have today and that we have in some way a duty to defend. Well, that's all I'm saying is that only while you weren't around that we were being lied to.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80505	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80506	Well, that means that I hate Serbs and I've advanced to xenophobia as such, which means there may be hope for me because at least in terms of something I'm spreading more and more. Well, I find that kind of dysphemism and labeling banal, unfortunately common in our public space. I'll remind you of what I was saying at the club's having that I'm only interested in one thing. And that's how many political trades are there, not principled political trades in this assembly? So I have the right to ask a question especially when it comes to someone who is not a minority but who is part of the ruling majority in political life, which is the SDSS, who gets the legal changes he asked for and who are primarily in his interest, and who previously raised his hand for the Kraut. I can ask if Schwebb would be the director of HRT and these legal changes wouldn't have been if things had grown differently.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80507	Thank you. The next is a replica of respected Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80508	Dear colleagues, here's what you mentioned earlier was a genetic determination of who was of any nationality. I don't think the genetics actually could work because I even saw the research, that in researching the genetic code of Croats that we're actually one big mix of everything, but I wanted to hear your comment on something else. And this is for counterpart Simprag here who complained that because of the earthquake her compatriots in Belgrade could not come to Belgrade and apply for Croatian citizenship. Here's the one thing that got into my ear, I don't know, here's your comment on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80509	Dear representative Selak Rasdic:
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80510	As I understand it, my colleague, Shimprag, remained dissatisfied with the legal changes and felt that these deadlines should and conditions were further relieved. As I said the moment my colleague Jeckov made the first request for an extension, we will see the answer, so Mr Bozinovic did not make a promise. In the meantime, we saw a certain drama, a certain need for certain hands, and legal changes came. So I can only conclude that in this political trade that awaits us, we can expect third legal changes, and then again, if we dare to trouble them, you know how it will end. It's all very funny to me, so I've just stood up for an emancipation thinking of citizenship unlike those who would want to bring it all down exclusively to genetics.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80511	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80512	Thank you, Chairman. Your colleague Selak Rasudiæ touched on your presentation of the motives for making such changes to the law, so you said that he was obviously some kind of political trade with his minority coalition partner HDZ again trying to put his particular party interests above the state's interest without even reading the law. I think that this is HDZ practice over any of their legal proposals, but what bothers me here, I think it is in itself problematic and the Croatian Parliament should not allow us to discuss the law without data, without real analysis, without knowing what categories of citizens are covered by such amendments and amendments to the law. In itself, this shows that we do not have a strategy as a state on the subject of obtaining citizenship, nor do we know which such changes will benefit except for the interests of some groups within the HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80513	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80514	I agree with you, colleague Oreskovic, I have these data, and that is why I brought them up in the debate because we have previously asked the authorities, the parliamentary question, and after some time we have received the answer. What's even more embarrassing than that is that when you don't get that information, and it's an emergency procedure and you ask the secretary of state what kind of thing is on the ground, it's giving you the wrong information. I'm going to be well-intentioned, so I'm going to say that maybe he didn't know exactly, but something like that is inadmissible. And what I have to admit most of all is that I've been entertained in all of today's drama is that the uncomfortability of HDZ or the ruling majority around these legal changes, so how they're ashamed of these statistics themselves, how they're trying to cover it up and how they're ashamed of their minority partner and trade with them, and then all these creative ways that they've tried to get around who this really is and who they wanted to meet with these changes. It was convenient to watch them watch They've dried up. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80515	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the Honorable State Secretary, Zarko Katic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80516	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I have to report back here for a word because, Mrs. Selak Rasdic, you made several false claims in several of your reports, including this last one. So, I'm not ashamed of any numbers, all the numbers you as a representative can get right now after this debate, whenever you come looking for a oral or written path, all the data will be obtained. I am also in my opening statement, which can be checked in the phonogram, said how many citizenship requirements were required within this period, over the past 23 months. It means something less than 5,000. These are the requirements that can be submitted within 2 years and are now required to extend the deadline by one year for epidemiological reasons. All the people couldn't express that intention, they couldn't come. The number, the total number of requests you did not ask me, but I will say this year was 10,432 requests for Croatian citizenship which were filed in various police administrations and diplomatic and consular representations. I can't tell you the exact numbers right now, but I can tell you about where it's more and where it's smaller. These 5,000, which have been submitted in this 23 month period, have been submitted to Belgrade's largest work, Banja Luka, Subotica, so in the area of the former Yugoslavia. That's absolutely certain, and that's roughly, these figures that you've taken out aren't obvious for the whole period because they were slightly less than 5,000 total, but they're globally accurate, that for those periods that apply, all of this other stuff wasn't true. And besides, this last debate, that there are some genetic criteria for parents here, yes, by the background of parents, but according to the civil background of parents, according to civic status and both articles refer to it. The first of all is the establishment of citizenship under the acquisition of citizenship by origin that I said the largest number of us here acquired. It was extended until the 18th year of life of a child or a young person, to 21 years of age but since there were them and the elderly who did not consume it then it was given that period of 2 years. Is that the happiest solution, it was then thought to be. I think it's personal. So, that someone with 100 years of age is not given unlimitedly, they are children of Croatian, at least one Croatian citizen who was born abroad, so they do not sign up automatically, there is no sanctions... It's a matter of goodwill, he wants to enroll or he won't. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the Republic of Croatia, the child who was born here, you must enter it in the home book, the book of citizens and other records. So, it's not about ethnic or other origins, exclusively the origin of the civil status of parents, and it's about this other group, so people born between 77 and 91 whose parents were Croatian citizens, but that person was registered with the republican citizenship of another former Yugoslav republic during that period. By mistake or something else, most likely by mistake because by law, then applicable law, a person should have been born in... I will be or Kranj enrolled in Croatian citizenship, but it is not. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Those are the reasons. There were other things, of course, that don't match the truth here, but things are. Everyone has the right to their own opinion only when they are appealed to deliberately passing false information by not knowing the data, then I resolutely reject it, and you are all invited to come by personal or written means at any time, looking for all the information you will receive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80517	We have multiple replicas, the first respected representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80518	Dear Mr Katic, I will leave the debate on how to obtain citizenship for another more philosophical occasion. But they'll look back on what you said. The first thing you said was that I was telling the truth and you didn't make a single lie that I made, and the more you confirmed that my data was correct, and you listed the data that I had previously listed and you didn't list them when I asked you where those demands came from, the more you told the truth, you said the most coming from South America, now you said something else entirely. You're wrong about us and that we should get that information when we ask you a question, if you're looking for changes to the law by emergency procedure, you should offer us these data as arguments, not that I can participate in the debate and drag them in the right direction just because I really have them, but I got them some other way. All the MPs were supposed to have them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80519	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80520	Dear Madam MPs, I, therefore, pointed out in the opening statement how many persons have so far requested the establishment of Croatian citizenship, that figure is approximately 4 to 5 times higher than before these changes and additions, so even before the 20th year, so also in 2019, 2018 and before individual persons have requested the establishment of Croatian citizenship, that figure has moved about 400 to 500 requests annually, so it has now been increased multiplely because it has also directed itself to a specific group of people born within a specific period of time during the application of a certain law, so 77-91, and those who are older, they will still be able to submit requests for the establishment of Croatian citizenship. And you asked me where the acquisition requirements came from in the first place, at least that's how I understood it, for gaining Croatian citizenship, I answered where they came from and it changed from year to year, but I told you globally where the most requirements for admission to Croatian citizenship came from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80521	Dear Representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80522	Dear Secretary of State, here's a comment on my thesis from a moment ago that I didn't... I think the fact, the abolized Chetney, is not an abolized one, but the one that's real, is a brush that's '95. He fled to Serbia and got a son in '99, in 2000, his son today can look for Croatian citizenship without a problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I'm going to take the opportunity to ask Mr. Bauku, he was also the minister of that portfolio, how can you determine the number of voters when you in the MUP haven't determined the number of citizens? So who has this data, who has the data of how many citizens in the world do we even have on the globe?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80523	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80524	Anyone who is therefore a data barata law and with terms of citizenship, therefore any Croatian citizen may request the entry of his child in the book of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. As for the number of voters, I gave myself time at the time of this debate to look at 3 million 665 thousand people had been listed in the list of voters for these last local elections, 3 million 665. I don't know exactly how many people are listed outside, but she's been moving about 800,000 as much as I remember, but I'm not sure of the exact information. The list of voters is changed, according to data from residence records, residences and citizenship records and travel documents issued, according to the Law on Election Registration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80525	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80526	Thank you, Chairman. In response to counterpart Selak Rasdic's reply, she invented a new me quite likable word, says HDZ has found himself in a situation she has listed as an accident. Well, now the word may be sweet, but in itself, the situation isn't. Dear Proposer Mr. Katic, it is extremely rude for you to address Mrs. Selak Rasudiæ as a proposer and say that she will receive the information she is looking for at her request. So, you here should have submitted the data together with the bill to all parliamentary deputies and clearly and decedifiedly revealed whose information, whose public exposure here at HS's pay phone is true and true, your or your colleague Selak Rasudiæ because both the thesis, both claims cannot be true. I want to know which one of you is lying.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80527	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80528	Your Honor, Madam Representative. I repeat once again, I think it's the third time that I've given as much data as it is in these two years of '20. and '21. The application for Croatian citizenship is based on these amendments and additions, which were made in 19th, whose deadline is now proposed to be extended by another year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80529	counterpart Selak Rasudic has broken his rules of procedure. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80530	Art. In 238, since it was not decided here that I am not lying, I will make it clear that I was telling the full truth according to the official information that we received on the question of obtaining the request of Croatian citizenship from the MVEP, I was telling the truth, and Mr Katic was bypassing the truth, but he did finally repeat my data.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80531	Well, that was a replica, so you get a warning. Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80532	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Secretary of State. I'm joining the appeal and asking you to prepare for us in the future all of this information that we're interested in. I'm really writing to myself very closely, preparing for debates, having no evil ones, but after all this I think the man is eventually confused with exactly what the data is. Here's what I'm going to believe is what my colleague is saying, because she's still on some kind of official route. So this way again, I ask you to give us the exact information that you said that 55 to 60% of the demands are negatively solved from this total number, so is this information correct, or are you going to change your mind? And what do you think of how many of these people who are going to have positive demands will really come back physically to the Republic of Croatia and how much is this on the trail of some kind of migration policy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80533	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80534	Thank you very much. From the number so far resolved of these 5,000 requests that we got is exactly between 55 and 60% solved negatively, they had no conditions. In this case, for example, both parents were not Croatian citizens at the time of birth of that person seeking. How many of these people will come to the Republic of Croatia you asked what I think, so that I might think that relatively few will come from the experience of those who have been admitted into Croatian citizenship either by naturalisation or by this determination. So we're talking about different terms from the law, so maybe there's some kind of misunderstanding. About 25% of people who are admitted to Croatian citizenship, so by naturalisation they really live in Croatia or come to Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80535	Thank you. Dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80536	Thank you. Your Honor, Secretary of State. The representative of Shimpraga had a problem with the direction of the MUP or which kind of legal act on birth before or after October 8, 1991, you did not refer to it, but I find it interesting, why October 8, 1991, what does HS Day have to do with the Law on Croatian Citizenship? I guess with citizenship, you should have Statehood Day. And the result is only one, it's a false day of statehood, and therefore I congratulate the MUP for not accepting this Pharisee holiday of HS Day, but continues to insist that October 8th is Independence Day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80537	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80538	Your Honor, Mr. Representative. The answer is very simple, on October 8, 1991. The Law on Croatian Citizenship entered into force. Otherwise, a number of very important laws that define Croatian statehood on that same day came into force for your information. It is certainly a dozen and independence and statehood, it is more than a dozen laws that have entered into force, such as the Law on the Movement and residence of foreigners then and many other laws, but the specific issue of that day has come into force this law that we are discussing and which has experienced several amendments and additions over the past 30 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80539	The Honorable Representative Deur has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, in what way has the Rules of Procedure been injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80540	Well, thank you, Vice President. 238, here's a replica of Mr. Bauk as he said, and I'm also wondering if he's the author of Cyrillic plates in Vukovar at that time and at that time, here's a clear idea of who's the author, and who's the screenwriter, this one's as the defender of Vukovar and not the hatred of Cyrillic, but the moment of knowledge of the authorship and the night shifts that put it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80541	Well, of course it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning too. My colleague Bauk, you insist on...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80542	Mr. President, it's a shame to miss a good chance of getting a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80543	Of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80544	Article 238, those who respected Croatian laws and placed legal plates are defenders, and those who went to Croatian coat of arms with hammers are attackers to the Croatian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80545	Comrade Deur and you have re-injured the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80546	238, Mr. Bauk...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80547	And you got a warning and colleague Deur got one, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80548	... hardly offended the disabled of the Homeland War and the Croatian defender himself who died of, at that moment, the man who was in the police who unfortunately was not being prosecuted at the time, and what you said was the beatings, there were parents whose children are still wanted as missing today. I know that in that time, the entire government unfortunately did not have empathy towards the Homeland War, and neither did the victims who were really difficult. They were killed in Vukovar. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80549	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80550	Thank you for showing us that again.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80551	...it really wasn't this one, it was a violation of the Rules of Procedure, but a replica I ask you to come to mind on this subject, and now, thank you very much, now the honourable representative Zekanovic will speak in an individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80552	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable state secretary, colleagues and colleagues, we are talking about Croatian citizenship. What immediately caught my eye, and I already warned twice, I will warn three times, unfortunately in the MUP we have no idea how many Croatian citizens there are. So, this should be a key piece of information, how many Croatian citizens there are. My question was answered by the secretary of state, in fact, that's the question of the Ministry of Administration, so perhaps through some replica we can get some information on how it's learned from the former minister. So we have some numbers as many requirements as it is approved, but today we don't even know how many people on the globe have Croatian citizenship. And now I'm curious as to how we determine the number of voters in the Republic of Croatia in the first place. We recently started a referendum initiative Protect the Croatian Kuna and then the Ministry of Administration and the Justice told us that there are currently 3 million, 3 million 680 thousand voters in Croatia and we should have collected 368,000 signatures. And now the key that determines that is not clear to me. A moment ago, the secretary of state said, he was here studying, so he said if I understood correctly that it was determined on the basis of the checkout of the residence, the residence of the travel documents issued. But the right to vote, the right to choose and to be elected is not tied to a travel document or to a place of residence, is that right. Someone may be 60 years old and not have to have a passport, and if someone is a Croatian citizen you don't have a record of if he lives in Argentina, Philadelphia or anywhere else. So this is simply not how we can find out the full number of Croatian citizens. And then again, the key question, which is why we are creating the number of voters, or on the basis of which the number of signatures needed to be collected through a referendum initiative is defined at all. I think this is all a very big fog, or maybe not by accident, because every party that fits in position was someone with Minister Bauk, today here is HDZ with Minister Malenica or Plenkovic and Milanovic reading between the lines, who answers that they can automatically create the number that suits them. Of course, that number is significantly larger than the actual number. It's my judgment, I don't see why we should cut it, I can only increase it because actually, with the increase of that number it will first convince the Croats and Croats that there is something more of us because the figures are quite overwhelming, and on the other hand it will make it difficult to collect signatures. Here I mentioned genetic determination of who is Croat or who is not. Of course you can't do that. And I've already said it, and I'll say it again. So, that there were studies of scientists who tried DNA from both Croatians and Slovenians and Austrians to see what it was about, so there was everything. So fortunately, then genetic weapons are not even possible. The people, or people, are something that man actually chooses, and the state defines by origin, of course it's about parents. Now, the key thing that came to me here is to get an eye on this debate, and he brought out a respected secretary of state, and later on, a colleague of Shimpraga is a way of gaining citizenship for people who aren't Croats, and they live somewhere outside, I'll be specific about what bothers me, I won't be abstract, I'll say it bothers me, for example. and the abolized Chetniks and those who are not abolized, but are Chetniks in '95. are on tractors or as they have already gone, for example. in the direction of Kragujevac and Belgrade, and then they started a family there in 2000. That one got a little boy there, and that little boy's 21. and the Croatian state has left, he has nothing, nothing to do with Croatia, so he is not Croatian, he is not Croatian. I said just before, his father destroyed the Croatian state and he lives today I don't know somewhere in Kragujevac and now that man is 2. Okay, so he's 2. time to apply for citizenship. I would make a distinction between Croats and among others, but I would go on, so it doesn't matter if someone was a Chetnik or a Chetnik today or someone was a Croat. Here we go. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80553	We've got a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of the Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80554	You went well, and then you broke up a little bit. So, I have to tell my colleague, Zekanovic, that in the first, first, first sentence, you were right. I, as minister of administration, received the minister of the administration of the Republic of Kosovo who is a Croatian citizen who is in '95. I went out of Knin and now lives in Kosovo and I asked him that you want to go to the elections, and then I was amazed to see that he is not in the voters' register even though he has Croatian citizenship and is older than he is 18, after which I realized that the number of those who would be in the voters' register is far greater than the one he is now. So now we have 4.5 million cca. in the register, of which 3,600 are in Croatia, 800 thousand outside Croatia, and there should be several hundred thousand more that are not in the voters' register, although they have Croatian citizenship and are of age.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80555	Thank you. Dear Representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80556	Dear colleague Bauk, here's a thank you for that. So that's, you've highlighted only one small example where that number could be larger. I'll take it as a possibility it's even bigger, but the important thing is that we need to know what it is. I'll, for a reason, doubt he's anything smaller than he's really showing up, but if he's bigger, I accept it, but we need to know what he is. We cannot, therefore, do so on the basis of some data or by some criterion that is unclear. We must have clear criteria, criteria of Croatian citizenship.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80557	The Honorable representative, Beljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80558	Thank you very much. A colleague of Zekanovic's, a colleague by two lines if I'm not mistaken. ... At least two that per profession. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Yes, you're absolutely right, and I'll give you the answer you know yourself, and so does Mr. Bauk. So we come to a situation where we do not want to solve the true state of the number of people or the number of voters. He does not want to get rid of himself because of dual citizenship and then contradictory matters are opened, so what applies to Croats from Herzegovina is not valid for Serbs, etc., etc. So the only solution in my opinion is that this elimination of dual citizenship is not discussed at all, so you can only have Croatian citizenship then to no one from Serbia or from wherever the origins are, will not be used by the Croatian passport as a means in principle to go to the EU. But then what about the Croats in BiH? And they're doing it. I know of examples indeed of people who, I also have in the family in Herzegovina, who have not taken out the housewife. I don't know what reason they were waiting for, and now they'd go to Germany and that's why they're taking out Croatian citizenship.../Thank you, thank you very much/... they're the only ones who have no problems. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you, Mr. Rainer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80559	Dear Representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80560	Dear fellow Whitey, I'll agree with you. That's what my colleague Skoro was talking about. So, this is one way to solve this problem to end the dual citizenship institute in general with that it has said nicely, I will also agree that we, in my opinion, need to have double criteria, so Croats by one criterion, the rest by another criterion, because let's not forget Croatia is the national state of Croatian people and look and that is, let's not run away from it, why we are ashamed to say, why, through different ways, why don't we look through different optics at the one whose country this is, and that means the national state of Croatian people than now some other people. I'm here for that criterion.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80561	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80562	Dear counterpart Zekanovic, I am a little confused, so from the HDZ ranks there has been an indictment against counterpart Bauku over a Cyrillic in Vukovar, about to simplify that it is not enough for a Croat. I will not defend his Croatianism now because he may have liked the accusation and liked it, you know everyone has their own attitude towards Croatianism as he wants, and that's fine, but what leaves me confused and what I don't understand is how it is simultaneously troubled by the Cyrillic in Vukovar and in agreement with his minority partner, the SDSS, is looking for such legal changes that will allow in the first order and the larger number of Serbs in the Croatian passport. So is it a bit inconsistencies to you, hypocritical, unusual, then who actually gets by that criterion if it should be a criterion to drill in Croatian?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80563	Dear Representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80564	Dear colleagues Rasudiæ, what you and I know and I believe already knows the Croatian public, currently in HS the ruling majority is HDZ, SDSS and some other smaller partners and that is what the fact is. And the SDSS is doing a great job, I will, here if I am a member of their national minority here, I might have liked it because just before we heard from this pay phone where a colleague from the SDSS Simprag regrets or states as a reason why I should extend the deadline for Serbs in Serbia to seek Croatian citizenship, meaning someone from Kragujevac, because it was an earthquake in Zagreb and that, and quite normally, it means they are destined to mean so one banal thing, so it's rare, so they're partners, it's a coalition, the SDSS for their national minority doing a great job, every honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80565	Your Honor, Mr. Skoro.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80566	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Zekanovic, the public works and the fact is that I always like to speak arguments, so we keep mentioning it, and especially in the presence of the Croatian secretary we talk about citizenship as something affirmative and we talk about nationality, as soon as we mention nationality, the nation is automatically coming to nationalism and we come to the fact that it is something very ugly. For your information, for example, on the first page of the American passport, there is no word citizenship (nationality) is pronounced and says in English citizenship writes nationality, and nationality is also said in English. While in our passport it writes citizenship/nationality, it is therefore a banishment of grandmothers and frogs. Citizenship is one thing, nationality is another thing. However, the term citizenship is not used in English, not citizenship, but nationality.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80567	Dear Representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80568	Dear colleague Skoro, I'm glad you've come forward with this problem. So unfortunately, in our country for the last decades, when you mentioned the notion of a nation and the expression of nationalism, you were always seen through one optic that depicted it as something upside down. So, if we look at the definition of nationalism itself or putting its people first through the struggle for its rights, through its status in the world I see nothing wrong. But when you lived in a country where you were a minority people and a multiethnic state, then it was really necessary to reduce national awareness, the influence of the people, and unfortunately today 30 years after the collapse of that country we still have a problem to say that some of them are nationalists, regardless of what there really is nothing wrong with fighting for their people in the right way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80569	Thank you very much. Since it's 11.55, we'll now take one break from five minutes to 12.00 when the vote is scheduled and then at 12:00 we'll vote on the points discussed. My colleagues and colleagues, someone forgot their cell phone at the pay phone so you... It's 11:55 p.m. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. We will now return to our point on the Law on Amendments to the Law on Croatian Citizenship, and will speak to the honourable representative Anita Pocrnic Radosevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80571	Thank you, Vice President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here after a break of almost two hours we return to today's topic, which are amendments to the Law on Croatian Citizenship. Croatian citizenship, conditions for its acquisition and termination have been defined by the Law on Croatian Citizenship of 1991, and the latest amendments have been in force since 1 January 2020. Subject changes and additions today suggest that due to the circumstances of the epidemiological situation caused by the pandemic of Covid-19 which made it difficult to submit requests for Croatian citizenship. A large number of persons have been prevented from applying within the prescribed time limit, which is why they are denied in the exercise of their right not by their own fault, as the deadline for submitting applications for enrolment of Croatian citizens from 2 years of age expires on 31 December is proposed to extend that possibility by one year. The last changes from which they entered into force in 2020 have been designed to make Croatia's citizenship simpler for persons who are native to Croatian citizenship, or who are descendants of Croatian emigrants. Some of them are enabling Croatian citizenship to be acquired by persons born abroad whose parent at the time of their birth was a Croatian citizen until the age of 21 in order to give them the opportunity to apply themselves for entry into the book of Croatian citizens if their parents failed to do so until their age. It is also possible, under the same conditions, to acquire Croatian citizenship acquired by origin and persons over 21 years of age who were born from 8.1.1977 to 8.10.1991 if, within 2 years of the entry into force of the law, they apply for enrolment in the register of Croatian citizens. It was important for these changes to liberalise the conditions for obtaining Croatian citizenship by redecorating the emigrants and their descendants because they leave out generational restrictions in a straight line and, of course, under the condition of knowledge of Croatian language, Latin scripts, they have, they have to make a solemn oath. To facilitate procedures and liberalisation of conditions in one way is one of the demographic measures. I say one thing because it cannot in itself and is not enough, but it certainly contributes to the return of Croatian emigrants. Just moving out of the Republic of Croatia is a subject often referred to in the Croatian Parliament, but also in public space. Most of the findings related to eviction are politically colored, colored and guilty and attributed to HDZ for emigration. However, the problem of eviction is unfortunately much longer. The eviction lasts much longer than the isolation of the Republic of Croatia. Under the influence of various historical, political and economic reasons, the Croats have continuously moved out of our space, and the historical processes of emigration are divided into several phases or waves so we see little that it began much earlier since the Turkish conquests, so today we have from that phase of Moliska and the City of Croatia, the second says the wave of emigration caused by wine vine disease in the island and coastal part when Croats emigrate to overseas countries, the third wave of emigration between two world works, the fourth was the arrival of communism after World War II, the fifth wave was there in the 1960s, the 1970s. The year when communist Yugoslavia begins to allow travel and work abroad and this sixth, the last wave of emigration that has started since the beginning of the Republic of Croatia, and especially by Croatia's entry into the EU. We are aware that the amendments to the Law on Citizenship will not dramatically improve the demographic image of the Republic of Croatia, but with all other measures that this government is taking by creating and improving the economic, investment climate, reducing bureaucracy and anti-corruption measures, encouraging entrepreneurship and employment and other conditions that contribute primarily to the remnant of Croatian citizens in the country of origin, and then attracting Croatian emigrants to continue their lives in the homeland of their ancestors and contribute to new knowledge and investment in the further development of the economy and society. In collaboration with the Croatian Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia and HZZ, he identified Croatian emigrants as one of the target groups that are able to use training in the workplace through active policy measures for return, Croatian returnees and emigrants from... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80572	Thank you, we have one replica of the respected representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80573	Dear MPs you spoke of evicting our fellow citizens, our citizens from the Republic of Croatia and who is to blame. I'm not going to talk about who's to blame, I'm not going to talk about the reasons, it's all known, the polls are known among our citizens who moved out and we know why they moved out, we know what case they'd be back in. However, moving out does not mean that we need to liberalise the possibility of obtaining citizenship. Why? I don't know if you're aware, when someone becomes a citizen of the Republic of Croatia, they have exactly the same rights as you and I who live here, you may not know for 30, 40 years, I've been 60 years. And my parents who worked here 40 years ago for this country. And I've been working 40 years for this country, and he comes in, takes citizenship, after that, the heritage of everything we all have.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80574	Thank you, distinguished representative Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80575	Thank you, colleague Pavić, that we said there is no point in accusing each other of who is guilty of emigration, which is unfortunately part of a long-term historical process where Croats have moved out of Croatia, and right now as far as liberalisation is concerned, I don't think it's completely liberalised again and there are no certain conditions. So here's the secretary of state mentioned at the beginning when I asked him what the ratio of the applications received for enrolment in Croatian citizenship and the positive solved almost half of them were even negatively solved. It means that there are regulations in the MUP and other services that are controlled when enrolling in citizenship itself. It is not enough that someone only submits a request and will therefore mean that they will be registered as a Croatian citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80576	Now, finally, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Radoje Vidovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80577	Dear Vice President HS, Secretary of State. First of all, as a representative coming from HDZ, I want to make it clear here that I feel comfortable in this assembly because I support this government that has enabled the strong economic growth of the Republic of Croatia as a prerequisite for progress in all other fields. I also want to say, as an MP coming from the 11th constituency, that I feel comfortable in this assembly because I've never felt comfortable in the last 20 years. The Croatian government did not give such strong support to Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. Also as an MP from the 11th electoral unit, I support every intention, desire, every move in the Republic of Croatia, especially the government that will contribute to the stronger integration of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia with the Republic of Croatia. Thus, this Law on Croatian Citizenship is one of the main Croats who can strengthen, strengthen and contribute to a stronger connection between Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and Croatia, and I therefore welcome it. Amendments to the laws of the last which have been adopted, relating to the Article. 5. They clearly say that Croatian citizenship can also be acquired by persons over the age of 21. one of the parents was a Croatian citizen. I hope that in the next period this right will take advantage of an even greater number of Croats living outside the Republic of Croatia, and we are all witnessing that it is in the last 2nd g. the work was at the time of the pandemic difficult, disabled, so it is impossible for all those whom these legal provisions apply to effectively exploit their rights. Therefore, the logical move of the government is justified that this period of 2.g. Go on for a year so that all those affected by this law and the provision can use this right with the hope that this legal solution will take advantage of as many Croats as possible and in this '22, and the acquisition of Croatian citizenship, the HDZ Club will support these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80578	And now, on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic will speak finally, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80579	Dear Proposer, fellow MPs and MPs. At first, it was not my intention to appear on the subject of this agenda and this law, somehow at first glance, that there should be nothing controversial about it, but there have been several unpleasant situations for the HS during the debate itself. So, from everything, the motive is, the intensity of these changes is the addition of some kind of, uh, administrative toothpick, so it's kind of extending, I'm going to caricate now, not speak exactly, from 2 to 3. in order for those who were not able to obtain their term in diplomatic and consular representations within 6 months to achieve their rights. I did not like that the applicant did not know how to answer the clear and decidently asked question of the MPs, and even if there were no such questions, accurate data on who the target group of such amendments and additions were to be written in the light of the law itself. And on the other hand, I think that the Law on Croatian Citizenship is one of those who should have appropriate attention both to the proposer and to HS and should stem from a comprehensive strategy and a plan that will be the attitude of the Croatian state towards Croatian citizenship. I would not like to privatise this pay phone, but not long ago my sister-in-law, who is a Mexican citizen, is married to a Croat, both of whom live in the United States where two girls were born and whose acquisition of Croatian citizenship was not questionable. However, my daughter-in-law, despite the provisions that could be interpreted in a way that allow them to be more or less able to do so for the sake of administrative and unpreparedness and unwillingness of the Croatian authorities to interpret certain things to their rights, has not reached and complemented these changes by any means to their status until the day of today. What exactly is this about? Namely, my sister-in-law, a Mexican citizen, came up with an idea, so she is the author of the idea of the Croatian anthem being translated into 5 world languages. She specifically participated in the translation into Spanish. On this occasion, a beautiful picture book “Beautiful Our Homeland” was published. Unfortunately, I currently do not have it in physical form as, as a book, but I think it is a significant contribution to the promotion of the Republic of Croatia abroad. Such a contribution seems to me to be the Croatian administration, especially at the time when the file on the table was on the table. Pejcinovic Buric did not understand such a thing and there was no hearing. And then today we're having problems, I'm not saying whether the MPs are actually right or not, there's been some confrontation and there's still some unexplained circumstances, who was actually right about the motives and intensities of these legal changes and additions, and there's been some kind of political trade, about guessing certain groups whether national minorities, whether there were political parties with which there were some kind of trade agreements, and there was no realisation within the original period, so now it's going to be a little longer for a few years or two. I think it is inappropriate or if it is found to be true, and it has not been able to deny that it is not, that this is an inappropriate relationship to the important and important subject, not only because of all those who in theory could or should have Croatian citizenship, but rather this is a problem that arises from, and I will say so, the crisis of the identity of those who have the opportunity to decide or create some ideas and ideas about citizenship. I wish it didn't, I wish this was one of those laws where Croatia would show, not only has the width, it has tolerance, but a law that will show that we don't have political agreements and calculations, and it will have a nice strategy, it will have a nice methodology and one plan that, here, as some left opposition clubs have said, bear in mind and the consequences of a number of migrations. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80580	Thank you very much. That's what I'm closing for, to discuss this point. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met. We'll finish work for today. We will continue on Monday as announced by the president of HS in that order and on those points, first... a statement on the amendments, and then the following is how he announced it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Have a nice weekend. Session interrupted at 14.08 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-03-0.u80582	The annual report on the implementation of the Strategy of the Law on Republic of Croatia's relations with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia for 2020 is submitted by the Central State Office for Croatians outside Croatia. We will vote on this item on the agenda in accordance with article. 44th century 4 of the HS Rules of Procedure. In accordance with the proposal of the home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion: The Annual Report on the Implementation of the Strategy of the Law on Relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia for 2020 is accepted. Who's restrained? And who's against it? 112 MPs and MPs voted, 77 for, 30 abstentions, 5 against, and concluded that it was proposed by the home body. The Programme and Financial Report of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2020 is the applicant of the PDO, and this item of the agenda will be voted in accordance with Article. 44th century 4 of the HS Rules of Procedure. In accordance with the proposal of the home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion: The Programme and Financial Report of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2020. Who's restrained? And who's against it? 118 MPs and MPs voted, 77 for, 33 abstentions, 8 against, and we reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the home body.
