ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u27207	Mr. Štromar, stay here right away because we will leave immediately with a statement on behalf of the Representatives and Independent Representatives Club, and first, on behalf of the HNS Representatives and Independent Representatives Club, the respected representative of Predrag Štromar will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u27208	Thank you very much. Another greeting, and yet we must mention these great disasters that have struck us over the past year, and unfortunately reached its peak by a devastating earthquake a month ago. They tested the entire state apparatus and all its institutions. Citizens have shown exceptional solidarity and only organisation in providing necessary assistance. And while on the one hand, we see an exceptional degree of civic awareness and responsibility in individuals, on the other hand we recognize the symptoms of the dispersion of organised systems. It's also visible in the education system that stepped into the second term this week. Parents daily send their own children to school with a valid sense of fear and uncertainty. A large number of school facilities have suffered major damage over the past weeks and months and no one can fully guarantee the health and life of all those who will be found in these facilities in the coming days. We wonder how secure the teaching facilities are, especially in the area of the city of Zagreb and the surrounding areas, which have been exposed to an uninterrupted series of earthquakes, but also in schools in Banija. We wonder how safe he is, even the way to those schools. Did professional services really do everything in their jurisdiction so that both students and their teachers could feel secure during their stay in school buildings and halls. We therefore expect that the areas in which the damage to the school buildings has been reported due to the earthquakes for each of these individual facilities are prepared and developed professional findings certified by authorised construction engineers. In addition to the static and seismic elaborate, the documentation should also be completed by the founders of the facility that the building is solid and safe for further use. For a year now, we have been living burdened with an epidemic of coronaryvirus that poses a special challenge to the normal and quality conduct of the teaching process. I must stress that, thanks to the HNS policy and former Education Minister Blaženka Divjak, the educational system has managed to amortise the initial impact of the Covid epidemic. The experience gained has shown us how so far applying the online teaching model can be further improved in accordance with new requirements and circumstances. In short, the system can and must be upgraded with new solutions and useful tools, one of which is so-called. the school Covid traffic lights, which would define the conditions of transition to different teaching models in the autumn in a clear, unequivocal and transparent manner. The foundation of the complete education system has always been our valuable teachers and teachers. We therefore expect that there should be a priority vaccination against Covid of all teachers, as well as non-school staff, because we believe that this is an inevitable step towards establishing schools as safe zones, as well as the normalisation of the entire social life. We also appeal that during the renovation that is ahead of us, special attention is paid to the restoration and modernisation of our schools so that they are a safe place for satisfied teachers, motivated students and proud parents.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u27209	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative of Domagoj Price will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u27227	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. It has been 10 months since the devastating earthquake that struck Zagreb, Zagreb County and Krapina-Zagorje County in March 2020, and the reconstruction has not yet begun. In the days after that, the whole of Croatia showed its desire to help those affected by the earthquake, we visited citizens' homes and talked to people and helped. I personally saw devastated houses, torn down or cracked walls and collapsed roofs. In the media it was the main news, it was the most important subject of conversation for our fellow citizens, especially those who lost a roof over their heads in an earthquake, for those who lost their homes. But as time went by, other things came to the public's attention and the fates of these people were spoken less often. But it certainly was not so for those of our fellow citizens who sleep in containers or who have rescheduled their economic facilities to temporary homes. For them is the earthquake and the damage caused by the daily life, and they've been waiting for 10 months, and there's no restoration. In Zagreb there are many, mainly in the northern part of the capital. In Čučerje, Markuševec, Vugrovci, Dankovc, Planina and many other towns of Zagreb. Since the state rebuilding didn't start, people had to figure it out on their own. They understood that as they sat in containers or repurposed stables and watched high-ranking directors who only grew with the arrival of winter and colder weather. In doing so, we must note that the citizens of the earthquake have been damaged by homes for whose purchase or arrangement they have already raised credits, and now many are in a situation that only a few years before retirement, paying for a loan, and they have no place to live. The specific problem is high electricity bills which are the only source of heating that they have to pay and which often amount to an entire amount of pension or salary. So, on small receipts when they pay their bills, there's nothing left to live for. And so people live in containers in front of their houses with underage children. Many fear burglars. Some of the people in the northern part of the city, with the help of friends and neighbors, set out in a pre-planned barn, designed them to live in them. They made it out of their money, and it's clear that they're financially, like any other way, exhausted. When the state did not help, they relied on the work and help of their neighbors. One part of the people who could no longer wait for the start of the reconstruction, who was able to raise the loan, did just that. They themselves began building a new home, but not with the help of residential loans, but with the help of non-intentional ones. So, apart from returning the principal, they're going to return a high amount of interest. I repeat, 10 months have passed and people feel forgotten. That's why the priority must be to start rebuilding. For many, it was a shock to realize that the construction of a rescue project for their building would cost more than 200 thousand kuna, so only the price for the project, or to find out that the cost of rebuilding the facade would cost the building a fortune. The situation is that in the city center, where the largest density of buildings and people is, there are buildings that threaten the neighbouring building that has 1 floor higher, so it can happen that with more buildings a part of the building falls to the lower and causes damage. Same thing with houses in the rural part of town. The problem is also part of damaged chimneys that haven't been removed yet. Many public facilities, schools, museums and administrative buildings await the renovation. Where buildings with multiple apartments are concerned, the problem is with the renovation and the agreement between the tenants. The problem is a large number of documents that need to be brought in order to restore, but conflicting instructions and opinions that citizens receive from competent institutions. To be clear, when we talk about the reconstruction that the state would help, it relates to construction reconstruction, but not to other damages. We see here that even part of the reconstruction that the state needed to help has not yet begun, so that citizens do not feel abandoned and forgotten. By bypassing different neighborhoods in Zagreb and by talking to people who died in the earthquake, I have collected data on the problems that I have listed in this speech and can only conclude the following, the restoration of the earthquake affected areas must begin immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u27228	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is that of the Croatian sovereigns on behalf of whom the respected representative Marijan Pavliček will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u27305	The Honorable Vice President of HS. My colleagues and colleagues. Here is yesterday's current morning marked by a number of issues both the ruling and opposition parliamentary deputies, but it was also marked by Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic's report, where he gave almost no question of opposition MPs a concrete answer but merely a political demagogy. And they could put his “responsible ” in one sentence: praise me my mouth. And the man who looks aside would say when he listens to him running honey and milk in Croatia. So on my simple question he talked about how Croatia strengthens its sovereignty within the EU, how in the Republic of Croatia, within the next 10 years, 24 billion euros are provided, how the government of the Republic of Croatia is helping the City of Vukovar and a number of other things, but my simple question has not been answered. However, let's take a look at exactly what Mr. Plenkovic was talking about yesterday. Unfortunately, the statistics are very inexorable to deny it. This is a ranking of EU member states, look where Croatia is, it's about GDP per capita. We are in the last place, it is also the rule of Andrej Plenkovic in the last five years. Only Bulgaria is behind us. We are in the last place and by consumption per capita, only Bulgaria is behind us, but this difference also decreases from year to year. With this statistics, Andrej Plenkovic does not want to publicly boast. Also today, Croatia belongs to five of the EU's most corrupt countries despite the five-year rule of Andrej Plenkovic. Croatia today is a country with 200,000 fewer inhabitants than it was five years ago when Andrej Plenkovic came to power because of statistics about 40,000 Croats each year leaving our beautiful country and going to Western European countries with bread. This is Croatia today, about this data Andrej Plenkovic is silent. Today, despite a major announcement of regional and local self-government reforms, Croatia continues to be a state with 555 units of local self-government as a municipality, which towns, as a county. Croatia is today a state whose public debt is 85% of GDP, and these are the data that Andrej Plenkovic is silent about. As for the help of the City of Vukovar, of course we expect the Croatian government to help the City of Vukovar because the City of Vukovar also helped the Croatian state in '91. when needed most, but I also expect the Croatian government to help other cities and municipalities in assisted areas. But let us remember what the Croatian Government did not do for the City of Vukovar, four years ago in 2017 comes to the City of Vukovar an investor of Croatian roots from Sweden who wants to open a factory of production, the wood industry is concerned, 500 jobs are concerned, unfortunately Croatian forests were unable to secure wood mass. The investment's going down. Three years after 2019. Investors come again in the town of Vukovar, Croats from Switzerland who want to create a new hotel complex at the centre of the city building of Hotel Danube, investment worth more than 20 million Swiss francs, employ 70 people, persons who have experience in hotel tourism have already opened a hotel in Switzerland, unfortunately thanks to the government of the Republic of Slovenia, they do not get a green light for building a hotel because of heights that do not fit in the urban middle of the city of Vukovar. The city of Vukovar is being helped by jobs, this is where the government of the Republic of Croatia has failed, about these things Prime Minister Plenkovic is silent. The town of Vukovar is today the only city that has no bypass from Ilock to Varazdin and this is what Prime Minister Plenkovic is silent about. It is therefore high time for him to come down to the ground and stop reaching out to the MPs rather than all of us together trying to work on a better tomorrow for all of our fellow citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u27306	Thank you. The independent representative, the respected Milan Vrkljan, will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u27356	Dear Mr. Chairman. I am going to talk a little bit today about entrepreneurship in the Republic of Croatia and see if entrepreneurship is a service to citizens and whether the idea that there are a whole series of actions that can be brought to mind under nepotism of crime, corruption, what is called in all countries of Europe, is a deep state. One example from Split, our man came back from Canada and brought all his property and family to Croatia, and he sent the property into two containers. One container was sent to Germany and another container in Croatia, to Split. This container that was sent to Croatia waited 30 days to get its things. There were clothes, shoes, and a 40-year-old engine. He waited 30 days, paid for all the pens, over 30,000 kunas to just get to his property. At the same time, the container that came to Germany, when he came to take it, took it the same day. I ask the question why does the government not react to these things where our entrepreneurs are clearly being harmed? Another example, and I will be a little bit and personal, and given some of the things that happened a few days ago, don't blame me, but in Gospić it was '95. year, so I'm talking about a time 26 years ago, a company that didn't pay its workers their wages for four months. And she hasn't paid her suppliers in a year. Three times the state opened a tender for the company and twice the potential investors gave up among other things and one in France because they saw what the debts were, their entire investment was too expensive. In the third competition, a family of prominent people from Gospić bought this company to make it easier for you since it was 26 years ago for the value of 10 apartments in Zagreb today. At the same time, debts towards suppliers and four months of unpaid salaries cost workers 10 new apartments in Zagreb. After the renovation, it is a hotel 9 rooms in Karlobag, which has 400 inhabitants in winter. After rebuilding this company for 26 years works all year long and summer and winter. In the summer and winter, employees receive salaries. I wonder how many other hotels on the Adriatic have been working all year, so it's for discussion? And we were very proud that it was a family business and where we in a small place on the Adriatic with 400 inhabitants allowed 10 to 12 people to be employed in that company. But a few days ago, a very ugly text was written in one of our daily newspapers that would be saddening where it was lying facelessly and I have to admit that I asked myself why someone after 26 years needed to get into a problem that one family bought from a failed company. It is evident that it is about the ordered text just a few days after Caroline Kristo Vidovic and I decided on our political path in which we see today Croatia as a just Croatia and not a country of corruption, nepotism and crime. And the journalist who wrote this was not interested in what the directors who destroyed the company are doing today and did not pay the salary for four months. None of these directors, and today they live in Gospić, have gone to ask him what they are and why they ruined the company. Which made the judiciary in 26 years that it failed to prove any guilt to anyone. They didn't go to ask any of these employee workers who get paid in the winter. And unfortunately, I have to cut back now because it's short notice. I can only conclude that it is a question that the government, the judiciary, the media, politics are making a racket over business and that it is called a deep state throughout the world.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u27357	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to stick to the weather. Now, on behalf of the Green Left bloc's Club of Representatives, Rada Boric will speak with a respected representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u27363	My colleagues and colleagues, we heard today, we heard yesterday, again from Mr. Prime Minister that the state has responded in haste and adequate response to a catastrophic earthquake in Banja. But the question is, is that exactly what I'm going to say about state goods supplies and how the state acted on those first days in Bania itself. The value of state stock the last day, the last day of last year, was 537 million kuna. According to a report on the state and management of stock stocks in 2019, The government sent him to the Parliament in October last year. At the end of 2019, there were tents worth 32 million 244 thousand kuna, and it was stated that 12000 sleeping bags worth nearly five million kuna were purchased in 2019. So the question is, and it is not clear why no tent and no sleeping bags were delivered to Petrinj and Clay. How do we know that? Let's say I was 31st in the May Poles, and in the May Poles, the mud tents were from volunteers who came from Chakovec. So the tents could have come from the Chakovec. The question is here and for Minister Banozic, whose purpose and at this point, three months before the Faculty of Medicine and the Faculty of Fine Arts, there are large military tents that have not been used for a day, they do not know the purpose. It is not known how much their use is not knowing how much their use is, but some of them themselves are completely unusable there. Why weren't they on time in Bani? How do we know we didn't get tents or sleeping bags? Because the government just sent a request. On the request of the Slovenian authorities, Croatia prayed tents and sleeping bags and they arrived in the first convoy, and so did Greece on Wednesday, with their own plane there were 40 tents and 500 sleeping bags. So why did we ask Slovenia and Greece to help tents and sleeping bags if they were in stock? Around the containers, a housing container in stock at the end of last year was worth around 5.4 million kuna. The ministry says it has a total of 298 housing containers of which 201 are currently in place, I quote, in front of health care institutions to help fight the coronary virus, and 76 are engaged to accommodate the population after the earthquake in Zagreb and the surrounding area, and only 5 days later, 21 containers were delivered to Petrinj and Glin on Wednesday and Thursday. Yesterday we heard from the Deputy Prime Minister Milosevic that only yesterday, 45 containers arrived, so with all this time 21 containers. Why am I saying that? We have an obligation to do so according to Article. 17. The Strategic Stocks Act stands for "slave supplies are maintained by timely renewal". How is it possible if the containers were and were used for triage and for, for testing or something again, since we know the practice of crime-related stores, how is it possible to say that we have containers that are housing containers? Tell me why 201 residential containers should be for triage and testing because in the description of what is a housing container other than kitchen and necessary rooms there are up to 6 beds? So how is it possible, and if that was the case, why don't we rebuild our stock, so that we can speak at least at the first moment where people were the most important roof over their heads, they could have it from these stock reserves?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u27364	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the Homeland Movement in the name of which the respected representative Ruzica Vukovac will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u27412	Since the process of passing the Seed Act, fruit material and recognising the variety of agricultural plants is under way, the "Seme" initiative is our human right made up of associations from all over Croatia with more than 25,000 members, it expressed concern with the proposed draft law which further makes it difficult for Croatian agricultural producers to be in place in relation to producers from other EU member states and restricts their right to seed. This initiative addressed all representatives' clubs in HS with a request for support. All EU member states have been contacted before the OPG Association, so we have come to know that there is no such case or regulation anywhere in the EU. No one in other Member States restricts a farmer’s right to seed, nor deliberately creates additional costs for its food producers. Croatia is dependent on the import of seeds. This is particularly expressed in seeds of vegetables produced at only 40 hectares and only 5 vegetable cultures. This significantly disrupts food sovereignty and calls into question food safety if, for any reason, there is a closure of borders or supply complications. Given the time we live in, it's not such an unimaginable scenario anymore. Further difficulties in seed cultivation in economies and in increasing dependence on imports reduce the resilience of the food system in crisis situations. In addition to agricultural land seed is the most important resource in food production. By restricting or denying the right to seed to agricultural producers, the country's food sovereignty is being violated and fundamental human rights are being denied, which is regulated by international contracts and conventions. The provisions of the proposed Seed Act violate the international Treaty on Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture, which Croatia signed and ratified in 2009, and the UN Declaration on the Rights of Peasants and Other Persons working in rural areas which Croatia is also obliged to respect. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The 19th century of the 2nd Declaration is referred to as ‘the peasants and other persons who work in rural areas have the right to safeguard, control, protect and develop their own seed and traditional knowledge’. Article 8 of the same article states that countries must undertake everything to respect and take into account the rights, needs and realities of farmers and other persons working in rural areas for seed seed protection policies and other IPR laws, certification systems and laws. I believe that there is rightly a concern that this measure does not contribute so much protection against plant diseases but is primarily aimed at introducing control so that large companies and other breeders can collect their fees. In response to the association's response, the new draft Seed Law suggests introducing a new concept of seed from the agricultural holding for so-called "farm". The attic. The press statement states that this introduces order and regulates the grey seed breeding zone on the holding for its own purposes. The production of seeds for its own needs in the economy and the choice of sorates or local populations is free and even the exchange of such seeds among producers is not a grey zone. It is recognised in international contracts, declarations, strategies and studies as the basic right of every producer that is particularly important in the conditions of crisis, climate change, epidemics and natural disasters we are dealing with. Tavanusa is not a professional term, but an ugly name, so it is difficult to define it professionally. It refers to the infected, uncleaned and non-quality seed of cereals which the producers themselves have grown from seeds of sorates protected by fertiliser rights and have not paid the compensation to the fertiliser. The theme of seeds from the family economy, however, is significantly more complex and not all the seeds that farmers grow for their own purposes can simply be declared a attic and banned. According to some estimates, even half of the grain seeds used by farmers in Europe make up the seeds that farmers themselves produce, there is no basis for introducing an idea into a law relating to a crop group. cereal. For all these reasons, I use this free speech and I suggest that the relevant ones at the Ministry of Agriculture consider the possibility of delaying the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u27413	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is that of the Centre and GLAS, respected representative Dalia Oreskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u27482	Thank you, Chairman. Given the importance of the Law on Reconstruction after the earthquake, I will, and in free speech, refer to some elements of it. The fact is that if there is a parliamentary majority of the law will be passed whatever opposition says, but I'm curious whether there is anyone in that parliamentary majority who wonders what our laws are like, what their quality is, and can we be ashamed of what we are voting here at some point. Therefore, the reason for the law states that settlements in the areas in which the disaster was declared were before the earthquake in a difficult economic, social and demographic situation and many, so many, but not all of those settlements were lagging behind, were treated as a particularly assisted area. Given who managed this area and this county, it is not surprising in any way, but it would be fair to admit that this is obviously the blame and the laws and measures that have been voted here and it is obvious that the many laws are only being passed for the sake of form, and that the real development and gain of the Sisak-Moslavina end of politics obviously does not truly care. It is also indicated that in this area the number of inhabitants has decreased as they speak again about missing policies. It is also said that the severe consequences in these areas have also been caused by the circumstances of the Homeland War that are still felt today, and it can be concluded that it is devasted areas, and then the earthquake has served only as an additional disaster. I wonder if for the next 30 years we will call on that area to be devastated by earthquakes that have not recovered from it until some days to come. Then the aim of the Law on Supported Areas is also said to be the management of development, etc., but I think we've mixed pears and apples here. You don't really know what's the point of this law that we're discussing today? Are we going to treat differently the one with which an area is needed because it is underdeveloped or when we talk about an earthquake, it will be important to strengthen the resilience of certain buildings to earthquakes and thus strengthen the safety of citizens or manage some social criteria so that those who cannot restore their homes will be helped by the state? None of the above. When we talk about this law being passed only a few months after the vote of that law on the restoration of the City of Zagreb and the surrounding areas, is it not the biggest defeat at the end of the year for us as parliament, but above all the parliamentary majority and Andrej Plenkovic. This best says that we cannot pass laws that are systematically managed by this country in which we will be able to explain to our citizens what awaits them in certain situations. And now that we are talking about what these issues are to be regulated by this law, it is therefore extended to the scope of the law that we haven't thought properly for the first time, then it is said that the refurbishing method is prescribed, but the criteria are once again not nearly clear, then it is said that the responsibility of the Reconstruction Fund and the Sisak-Moslavina County and the Karlova County is being extended to explain in the following sentence that new competence is being granted to the Central State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Care to be implemented in these two additional counties. So, chaos and disorder is being introduced, and it seems that a whole existing law has been upgraded to a whole new part that confronts it and hairs in the bang, in implementation it will lead to major problems. It is then said to prescribe an additional model of temporary housing by means of mobile temporary and assembly facilities. It is fantastic that we vote this after the activists of our citizens have already been taken care of in the affected area. That's a shame. And then we're saying that we're going to do a more effective and faster way of removing destroyed objects that are actually some kind of security threat. Well, isn't that defeat, too? What about that property that led to the collapse in the City of Zagreb and one fatal case? If we've made such a bad model for the first time that this property has not been removed by the day, and the bogs and others that pose danger, do we even know how to make the laws right? It is then said that the rules and measures laid down in this law will apply to all other areas that would later be affected by an earthquake and are not directly stated through legal provisions and the name of the law. And then we say nomotechnically we've done it well. So we are neither able to come up with the name of any law with a purpose that this law should prescribe. Enough for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u27483	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Goran Ivanovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u27556	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here in these difficult times, of course, when the entire focus of both Croatia and the political and all the public is focused on the area affected by the earthquake, of course, is the most important thing we can even talk about and discuss these people need help, not social assistance, and they need all the help from us people sitting here in parliament to provide these people with the best and most just conditions for the continuation of life and the development of the economy. But I come from a region that also has problems when it comes to demographics and all that goes with it from Osijek-Baranja County, which is the third largest county in the Republic of Croatia and which also wants to ensure conditions and preconditions not only of Osijek-Baranja County but of all 5 Slavonian counties for a better life in that area. So let me begin by thanking all local leaders who operate in space above all the Osijek-Baranja County who also responded and helped their initiatives with the earthquake affected area in any way. I want to talk about the part about agriculture, of course. 5 Slavonian counties have about a million hectares of arable area of 1.7 million hectares as far as the entire Republic of Croatia is concerned. In order to develop the agriculture that we want economically of course sustainable, we need to create basic conditions for the development of such agriculture. Here is the Osijek-Baranja County is going into a project to build a regional distribution centre which is a basic condition and a prerequisite for what we produce to end in these freezers, dryers and thus not only raw materials but also anything that can be sold on the market at a much higher price in times when it is not season for certain types of fruit and vegetables. Also one of the projects that is very important not only for Osijek-Baranja County but for all 5 Slavonian counties it is the construction of an economic centre. The economic centre in Osijek, which is planned to build at 130,000 m2 or 13 hectares, is something that would improve not only economic activity but would also be a representative centre for all that Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem can offer not only to the inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia but also countries that want to eat clean, organically prepared food. Construction and upgrading of the Osijek Airport as a transit port is certainly something we absolutely need, we have an airport which at the moment does not actually use almost anything, that few passengers that drive and transport are not something that can make that airport sustainable. We want a cargo airport that will transfer exactly what we produce in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem to those who are interested in our products. Irrigation, irrigation is one of the topics that is often referred to here, we somewhere in our county have about 50 thousand or so 20 thousand hectares that are currently under irrigation, but what is worth watering if we don't have the centers in which we're going to store that food that is produced because, let's be honest, it's impossible to sell immediately from the field all the food produced but for that there are certain conditions and preconditions that must be created. It is important to know what the price of cubic meter water to irrigate, whether there is a possibility that for the first 2, 3 years this price will be absolutely free to create conditions and preconditions for a sustainable economy. The construction of a clinical hospital centre for all 5 Slavonian counties in medical terms is the crown of everything that is wanted in this time. 700,000 inhabitants are gravitating the Clinical Hospital Centre in Osijek, the building is over 150 years old and I believe that this will create conditions and preconditions both for economic development and for staying in these areas. So here I finally want to commend all five Slavonian mayors, who in one synergy are working to make our Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem what it may have been until the early 1990s 20. For centuries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u27659	Thank you, and now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Most, a respected representative of Nikola Grmoy will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u27660	Thank you. Today here is the topic of Sisak-Moslavina County, the town of Sisak, I will touch a little bit of the law and possible renewal, but I will talk about another problem and I would ask that support and representatives from the 6th constituency, I see that there is a colleague Celjak, that there is a colleague Posavec Krivec, I don't know if there is anyone else and here is a colleague Glavasevic. So, I'm going to talk about the move of HTV leadership and my colleague Lenart is here, and he's behind the computer, so I'm going to talk about the move of HTV leadership, which to the journalist Igor Ahmetovic, the only HRT correspondent from that county, has lifted the job and transferred it to the edition of Zagreb's Panoram. Therefore, the place of the only permanent correspondent from the county that is on the verge of humanitarian disaster, in which the eyes of the whole of Croatia, which we are discussing today, we have been discussing for almost a month and we will certainly be discussing in the coming months. It's a scandalous move, I'd be begging for reaction and other colleagues, it's something that's inadmissible, and it actually happened because the HRT correspondent got a working dispute against his house and it's scandalous that now his workplace is being abolished. This shows the relationship between the ruling Croatian-run structure and the county. And speaking of renovations, I've seen colleagues from the SDP have already given certain amendments to Sisak, and I'm guessing they'll do the same to their colleagues from the green-left bloc and colleagues from the HSS. We will also go with an amendment that will not take into account these criteria that the ruling took into account, which means the assisted area and the declaration of disaster because then Sisak can't be taken into account for 100% funding but we have added a new criterion, which is of the geostrategic importance that the government would assess by regulations, so for a particular area that is particularly important, and we will agree that the city of Sisak as a city of Croatian victories, a city that has suffered so much in the Homeland War, now because of this earthquake, something like that deserves. You are a colleague of Celjak only wanted something in principle for the town of Sisak, but we still have no solutions, I invite you to a meeting at 15 o'clock, so you received an e-mail, returned colleagues from the HSS that we, as a rejection of fellow Vidovic's initiative. That's incorrect, I personally supported the initiative, I waited for the invitation to meet, when that call came I was on the ground and I said that this meeting should take place on the ground. I don't mind that this initiative is led by any of the MPs, although it is run by someone from the political option that has the most opposition representatives from this election unit, so in that sense I am fully open or that you are led by a colleague of Celjak or someone from the ruling coalition if we will thus manage to fight for, for the town of Sisak and for that county. So I don't have any problems with that, but what's being ordered today by the prime minister doesn't give any positive, positive message, or hope to the citizens of Sisak that their properties will be completely restored at the expense of the state. If everything that my colleague Bacic said today is true, I sign it, that it is the county that is the soft belly of Croatia, which has suffered aggression, which is now destroyed again in this earthquake, then we must find a way through this legal solution or in some other way to restore all people in the town of Sisak their homes. And all of your colleagues would invite you not only to unite around this initiative but to send one message to HTV leadership, which is a constant correspondent, meaning HRT from that county, which at the edge of the humanitarian disaster has abolished the workplace at the moment, and this man, during the earthquake, has, in my knowledge, been doing his job professionally. Here, in this sense, I call for a joint action regardless of who will lead the initiative or who will call for meetings in perspective, but it is important that we stick together and try to fight for people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u27661	Thank you very much. Now we're going to take a little break for the ventilation, so please let's get a good wind, and we'll see each other at 14 and 10. It's a 13-50-hour meeting.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28361	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, honourable MPs, I welcome you all. At the beginning of only one announcement, so today we will add at the end of the debate, first and second points, so after the final proposal for a law enforcement law, we will have a report from the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the replacement of MPs, and we will vote on it tomorrow at 9.30, so on the report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, that's all. Today we begin, as announced, with: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Reconstruction of Buildings damaged by an earthquake in the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje County and Zagreb County, with a final proposal for law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 102; The Proposer is the Government on the basis of Article 102. 85. The Constitution and the Art. 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, Spatial Planning and Construction and for Labour, Pension System and Social Partnership. Before I give my word, my colleague Selak Rasdic, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28362	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Bridge Club for 10 minutes. Dear Prime Minister, since I see that you have come on behalf of the promoter, do you know what this is? This is a decision to classify units of local and regional (regional) self-government according to the degree of development. This is a decision that you signed at the end of 2017 and that decision is the reason why we cannot discuss such a bill at all. Do you know Croatia? Do you know the areas you run? Do you know which units of local self-government are assisted areas? If you knew, and you were free to deny me so list, then you would know, for example, that in the fourth category along with the town of Petrinja, also Donja Stubica, who suffered disastrously in the previous earthquake and that according to this unsustainable proposal of the law, Gornja Stubica will be financed by only 80%, while for example, Petrinja will be financed by 100%. You're introducing a precedent. You say, nominally, in public that you're in favour of assisted areas, and in fact you're talking about assisted areas that were disastrously injured and assisted areas where you declared a disaster only when the media forced you to do so. You are discriminating assisted areas in the same category by this law. If we can distinguish between assisted areas and other areas in Croatia, it is certainly constitutionally unsustainable to make the difference between the two identical categories of assisted areas. And it is also necessary to finally tell our citizens that this is only about construction reconstruction, that they will not enter new homes, but that according to this bill, the state has made it possible for them to do so. the potential repair of the structure. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28363	The apartment is approved. Comrade Beljak, did you report for a breach of the Rules of Procedure or not? Then before you, your colleague Oreshkovic, is also up for a break, and then you're after her. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28364	Thank you, esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament. Also, on behalf of the Party Center and GLAS, I am looking for a break of 10 minutes to point out once again what we said during the first and second reading of the Law on the Reconstruction of the City of Zagreb, it is now well seen after 10 months that this law is one of the biggest delusions in the Croatian legal order. Under this law, not only will Zagreb not only be restored but what little will be done, and what will be spent large funds, it will camuflate both this bad and submerged state. I don't know if this is about washing your guilty conscience when you're trying to put Sisak-Moslavina County under the same law, and I'm going to stress and refer to what my colleague Selak Rasdic said, this is not about creating an inequality since it is a particular area that deserves special care. We will create a major inequality between the Croatian citizens themselves who are in a socially sensitive state, and the state will finance the reconstruction in different ways and in different proportions. And what kind of restoration? Construction. And no one says how many citizens will cost a full recovery, and what that really means is when the state withdraws from their homes with the scales that are supposedly building up real estate. Also, I don't know if this is about creating a new legal basis for the additional robbery of our citizens as it has already been seen many times when the state is in this way, very non-transparent, through a phantom body, such as the Renewal Fund, which is not yet in place, announced that it will implement the reconstruction of private homes through public procurement and contracting with performers. Now, especially after the earthquake in Banja, you can see what it looks like and who goes best in such a restoration. Corrupt politicians, not citizens who cry for the safety of their home.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28365	The apartment has been approved, Comrade Beljak, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28366	Thank you, well-respected President of the Parliament, the Honored President of the Croatian Government, on behalf of the Club of Assembly Representatives of the HSS... What? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] I didn't hear you, did you say something? ... Excuse me. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] In the name of the Club of Assembly Representatives of HSS and HSU, I am looking for a break of 10 minutes in order to consult on this bill proposal and to see if there are any other shortcomings with due respect to my colleague Selak Rasudiæ, according to my colleague Oreshkovic, I, as mayor of Samobor with 12 years of experience, know that some things cannot go exactly as well as how someone imagines that someone has absolutely no experience so that I suggest that we all see together that there are no wizards and neither Mr Plenkovic is a wizard, far from it nor any of us, so that we all together support this law but, of course, with the fences that no robbery happens, I think it is not in the interest of anyone, that there is no repeat of things from the restoration, that there are no shortages in the past and that we all together support it because people, especially those who have suffered in the earthquake, at this moment, they are not at this point of political division, that they are not interested in the fall of the snow, which are not before the snow. So in principle, we will see in our club whether there are these shortcomings and we will point at them and ask those who decide to let their ego aside, let the ruling majority aside, to do everything possible to help people as soon as possible, and then we will continue to engage politically in whatever way anyone gets here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28367	You've been granted a break, too. Now it's time for colleague Vesna Vucilović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28368	Thank you, Chairman. I'm looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the Homeland Movement Club. In fact, I agree with my colleague, Beljak, that the public and especially the inhabitants of the earthquake in the endangered area of Banovina, Petrinja and Sisak expect us and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to have a quick solution, but we must make sure that the ones we are now making comply with some laws that are already in force. In fact, this proposal, which the Proposer brings to this House today, in some ways does not respect the Budget Act, so I believe that we need to consult further. It is envisaged that, during the financial year, funds can be redistributed without restrictions in excess of the prescribed law governing the budget. It is clear to all of us that this year we will have two budget rebalances, I hope that this second one will be only technical, so there is no reason not to discuss all these redistributions that will be related to these costs that will definitely disrupt what we have already adopted during this spring budget. I don't understand why the government wants to avoid this High House and vote through rebalancing and redistribution of funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28369	The apartment has been approved for you, too, Comrade Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28370	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I am also looking for a break to discuss once again the solutions arising out of this law. Both the government and the ruling majority, as we have shown, and during the adoption of the basic law, heard the debate of Croatian MPs in the Croatian Parliament and certain amendments that represented the improvement of the law itself were included in the final draft of the law, and the government and the ruling majority accepted them. I want to say first of all, this law stipulates that 100% renewal will refer to spaces that meet two criteria. The first criterion is that disaster has been declared and the second criterion is that this area falls under the scope of assisted areas in the Republic of Croatia. But I'd also like to say first of all to my colleagues from Most and Mrs. Selak Rasdic said there are assisted areas in Croatia that are not the same. And it is not the same to be assisted area in the New Glinsko Selo and the Lower Stubica with all respect to the Lower Stubica. Spaces that have passed through the Homeland War, which have been destroyed where people have been displaced, where their houses have been completely destroyed, where the economy has been destroyed, with all the respect of others, and also in my county, Dubrovnik-Neretvania where there are assisted areas, are not the same as this state and this Assembly and parliamentary representatives should have special sensibilities according to this area, and this is what the Government has shown by this law. And we should say that even in Lower Stubica, people who are worse at social status, whose income property censorships are much weaker, weaker, the government will also allow them with a 100% and ruling majority and this law to be renewed. And yet I stress, we remain open to hear suggestions in this debate that will respect other arguments and we are ready to respond to them too. And it would be good if there was a complete assessment of the overall damage, so we'd be much smarter. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] when the final... [[Adversity President: Comrade Bačić, thank you.]] Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28371	Stanka's been approved, so now he's reported, uh, damage to the Rules of Procedure? My colleague, Heidash Doncic, injury.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28372	... I don't really use it, but I think Mr. Bacic really hurt the Rules of Procedure, please don't mention and combine the Lower Stubica and other other areas because the assisted areas and the assisted area, don't compromise it that way because you insult the people, please, colleague Bačić. [[Specially enabled.]] Please. I listened to what you said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28373	You get a colleague, Hejdaš Doncic,...... Wait a minute. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] You're getting a warning, this was totally inappropriate and lame. My colleague Selak Rasdic, you want nothing? Okay. Then it's time for fellow Pavlichk who's also looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28374	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the Prime Minister. I'm looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club. It is very important here to note that this law will not be a dead letter on paper for the next few months, as did the Law on the Reconstruction of the City of Zagreb when it was passed 4.5 months ago, nothing has been renewed in the City of Zagreb according to this law. We who come from the war of the affected areas know best that it is more urgent to rebuild and build new homes for the inhabitants because otherwise they will not return. Statistically, if the displaced population can't return to their homes in a year, 20 percent of the population will never return. Like you in Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, let us not afford it but also such a demographically devasted Banovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28375	The apartment is approved. Comrade Tomasevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28376	Good afternoon. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Green-Left bloc club to consult on the amendments to this law. We have a lot of questions here, and we have a lot of contradictions that are now being introduced by these changes, some of which are already being talked about by colleagues. Right now, this explanation of the break from counterpart Bačić shows that there are not exactly clear criteria for what the assisted area means, cumulatively with the declaration of disaster because it is not clear why disaster has now been declared after this earthquake, and disaster has not been declared after the earthquake in March. Just for these reasons also this geographical criterion that, let's say, Sisak does not belong to that model, and the neighbouring municipalities fall, means the difference geographically of 100 meters since the development index is still some sort of average, I think it can create a lot of problems. On the other hand, it is not clear to us, and certainly we are to help and to clearly define this in the law from solidarity to Sisak-Moslavina County that 100% of public purpose buildings whose founders of the local self-government units mean municipalities and cities because we do not know how kindergartens, schools, homes of health are actually going to finance the reconstruction of these units of local self-government. Also related to agricultural buildings to define whether or not they are being refurbished, we believe they are. that they should be brought under these buildings for special purposes that we already had in the existing law. So there are a lot of things that should be resolved in order to really solve some confusion or unfair treatment of citizens, this Krapina-Zagorje County is also mentioned. But what is also important is that the institutional framework should be seen whether it is good to add another institution to the Central State Office for Reconstruction and Housing, having in particular that the institution is currently under public criticism. On the other hand, we also warned about the dualism of the funds and the ministry during the reconstruction of Zagreb and the surrounding area, and we see that it is just wondering that the fund transfers responsibility to the Ministry for all the documentation required. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28377	Thank you very much. Approved recess. My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28378	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. First of all, when I'm looking for a break on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, I have to do it for what my colleague Bacic said. Supported areas are assisted areas, doing discrimination on the basis of how an undeveloped area has arisen, and you colleagues Bačić have done just that in the case of Donja Stubice it is completely inappropriate. If any area is less developed for this reason or that reason, natural disasters, Homeland War or something else, we must not and we have no right to discriminate about it. To all those who have been assisted who have not been developed, we must help, and therefore your remark has been completely inappropriate. However, I will use this break to send a message to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, but perhaps not a message as much as an appeal. We tried to get an answer during the current morning with questions from you and the Secretary of Resort, but we did not, in which way they will ensure that all those environments that were killed in the 28th and 29th December earthquakes are treated in the same way if they are undeveloped areas. You said yourself that Sisak all if individually he was above average after this earthquake he certainly wasn't. Therefore, in your opening statement, I ask you to clearly state how you will ensure that citizens and citizens of Sisak are treated in the same way as those of Petrina or Gline and that everyone is assured that after this renewal they can I'm sure you'll live in your homes. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28379	Thank you very much. Is anyone else picking up? If not then break by 10:05. It's 9:54 a.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.10 HOURS]] We will now be contacted by the Prime Minister, the Honorable Andrej Plenkovic, who will give an additional explanation of the final proposal for the law. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28381	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed MPs and MPs, together with Minister Horvat. Today we will present the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Reconstruction. Before I go into the topic, I will only briefly refer to the representative Selak Rasdić who reads a lot, but perhaps incorrectly so she put Donja Stubica in the 4th category with Petrinja. Maybe you're confused, so you're thinking about Upper... You said Donja, in the 6th group that Mr. Bačić respects, Mr. Hajdaš Doncic, and I was there after that earthquake, so I'm pretty clear on what this is about, and as far as the development index itself is concerned, of course we know who is where and how much who is developed, there's the area units of Sisak-Moslavina County in that group that's also the first under-ranked regional (regional) self-government unit. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] As for the others, Sisak is the only one from all the other units in this county in the 6th group, and we'll talk about it a little later. But anyway, I think we reached a very good consensus about this law a few months ago. Our ambition is to reach a similar consensus even now because I don't see that we are very different in our political intentions to help people in the earthquake of ruined areas. So, from December 28th and 29th, these earthquakes hit Sisak-Moslavinačka, Karlovačka and Zagreb County, with catastrophic consequences, it is important to remind that this earthquake was much stronger, which hit Zagreb and other parts of the Krapina-Zagorje County and Zagreb County in March. That's what's important. As an institution, a system, we were on site practically immediately, came to help our fellow citizens, our unit leaders of local and regional self-government, and at that point the priority was, as you remember, the search for people who may have been in ruins. Here I would once again like to thank everyone, from civil protection, from HGSS, from firefighters, from police, from the Croatian Army, from doctors, from volunteers of the Red Cross, from many citizens who have been volunteering to help these parts with an earthquake. Also, on behalf of the Government, I would like to extend my condolences to the families of those killed in this earthquake and to their neighbors. I would also like to say that the government's goal with this law and the measures that we will take to enable us to return to normal life as soon as possible, and given the characteristics of this end of Croatia, this includes further revitalisation of the economy. One aspect is still very important. So unlike the moment when we passed the Law on the Reconstruction of the City of Zagreb, we do not yet have a precise estimate of the extent of the damage and from all the data collected so far, it is obvious that the damages are huge, but we do not have a complete picture, we will have this picture only later, it is not irrelevant at this time. For now, we know that 36,617 inspection buildings have been reported in Sisak-Moslavina County, 20,370 of which are unusable and 4,212 temporarily unusable. 804 buildings, in Zagreb 3,587, in the City of Zagreb 3 110, in Krapina-Zagorje 232. We have taken a number of emergency measures in the past activities, made a decision to grant 120 million kunas for mitigation and partially removing the consequences of earthquake damage, suspended that e-pass system, took measures to free our citizens from paying for the toll, made a decision relating to cuts of electricity, gas, thermal energy, freed tax donations, launched an earthquake website.info, declared a disaster, adapted the structure of the Civil Protection Staff to, in a way that the Vice-President of the Government of the Bear runs the Stoger, who has practically daily situated and sat in Petrinja and coordinated all the activities, working on the list of damages, thanking the statisticians, the numerous private companies that have given their construction operation in the past days. We also went into the family care process, organized a large number of containers and mobile homes that enabled temporary accommodation for those who did not want to leave their home, their houses. So, I will remind again all those who wanted alternative accommodation where they would be safe, warm and dry that they could do and such offers were very much and who wanted it and today can get it, so it's very important. The one who wants to stay on his home, his property, that's what we provide for housing containers or mobile homes. We ordered these housing containers from our manufacturers 428, and we ordered mobile homes and many of them were already delivered 264 of the different hotel houses in agreement with them, some of which they donated. We're on the power grid. HEP where it has connected 650 temporary accommodation facilities including all those from different private donations. I would also like to mention that we have organized a diet for the victims, we thank the chefs, volunteers, caterers who have also made a great contribution in these first ten days, two weeks, and we think it was an expression of social solidarity that we appreciate and respect. As for donor actions, according to the MVEP account that exists in the ministry, 77 million kuna has been collected so far. As far as I'm aware, there's over 40 million kuna on the Red Cross account, I don't know the last data today, but there are also significant funds collected there. What is important, the government has also established a special working group for the economic revitalisation of this area and I believe that all parliamentary representatives from the 6th constituency are aware, you are all involved in this group, we expect your contribution as well as the contribution of local and regional self-government leaders and of course experts from the academic community. What is particularly important, this is an area that suffered a lot in the Homeland War that was then severely injured and which is still essentially recovering from these times and therefore is a assisted area practically the entire Sisak-Moslavina County except the City of Sisak itself, which is in the 6th category. above average. The Regional Development Ministry is working with experts to collect damage assessments, of course, and to apply for funding from the Solidarity Fund. Many countries have helped us in this process, given different donations, financial resources, concrete material assistance through the EU Civil Protection Mechanism. You have also seen Commissioner Lenarčić's visit to this area practically within 24 hours of the earthquake itself. As far as this Rehabilitation Act is concerned, there are a few things that need to be kept in mind here. First, we have declared a disaster after we have received information from the Civil Protection Staff on the extent of the damage, it is a largely rural area in which families' homes have been killed and by the moss in the assisted area, the most of the urban units have been killed, of course, by Petrinja, Sisak and Glin. On that side, the adjustment of the law that we have brought together in two readings at the beginning of this assembly was going in several directions. One is that given the extent of the damage and the state of the economic situation, we are more socially in this county to meet than we anticipated in the 60-20-20 model in this law for the first earthquake which I think is good, and to hire the Central State Office for Reconstruction and Housing which, anyway, still under this 100% funding model, still solves the issue of reconstruction and housing over assisted areas, and we believe that this office has the most experience and knowledge in this respect. The government is willing to do everything there to help people, even the provisions of this law, and ultimately this part, which is the media topic exclusively for politicising for local elections around Sisak, so I will mention it again. Model 60-20-20 in this particular case means the following, 60 give state, 20 should give county, we are in the law provided if the county can't give state, so it's 80%, 20% which should be paid by the owner if it can't reburse the state and rebuild the facility, with the right to sign up for that 20% in the variant of a later alienation of that property, or that building. So what's important for our citizens, so no one has to participate anything right away, nothing that's a very important detail, it's not heard in this debate, and it's important that we know that because it's written in the draft law. However, given the sensitivity of this topic and the government's desire to find consensus, the political consensus in this law, I suggest that today's debate, and also the days until we pass the law, use for these magicianic ideas that the representative Beljak had and try to find a consensus that will be just. Just in relation to the real situation in Sisak-Moslavina County and to the situation in other counties that are especially in these border areas are not too different because these 10 meters each reasonablely understands that the situation is very similar. But we have to have a law that, with its architecture, is defensive, which has a certain meaning and which in the long run can survive and not bring some other end, some other situation in an unfavourable position. Before I give my word to Minister Horvat for the end, this is an opportunity for a serious and revitalisation of this part of Croatia. I think it's clear to all of us that this is the part that, in this context of the criteria and it's important to mention that, I'm going to mention that because I have the impression that maybe we're not all aware of what the criteria are when it comes to the development index and that we have that in mind, in accordance with this Regulation and the calculation of the development index, the following indicators are used. The first is the average income per capita, the second is the average income per capita, the third is the average unemployment rate, the fourth is the general population movement, the fifth is the education rate of the population and the sixth is the ageing index. So this is the six criteria on which we have classified our units of regional and local self-government in the context of the average above or below and that is what is important at this point. I expect a quality debate today, I think from what I managed to hear from you yesterday, there's a desire to reach a consensus, the government is open there, but we need to make long-term, fair and sustainable solutions with the fact that we don't yet have the extent of the damage entirely. That element doesn't matter when we create a legal framework. Now, I'm asking Minister Horvat to say a few more.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28382	Thank you, Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, Honorable Parliamentary MPs, Parliamentary MPs. A lot has already been said, but let me repeat another number of 44,000 objects where damage has been reported and of which, with various classifications, already recorded more than 2700 that we will have to destroy and build replacements in one way or another. Let me thank everyone in just two short sentences, primarily 715 statisticians who as volunteers responded to the call and are still part of today's not institutions but one initiative of the Croatian Earthquake Engineering Centre as part of the Faculty of Civil Engineering which is present daily on the ground, engineers, associations, and especially individuals who have made a great human contribution that was very much felt right after the earthquake. In line with the above, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed amendments and additions to the existing legislative framework governing the following issues. The legislative framework for reconstruction is harmonised due to the emerging circumstances associated with the earthquakes of 28 and 29 December 2020. The law extends to the territory of Sisak-Moslavina and Karlova County, the Law also includes damage caused by the earthquake on 28 and 29 December and in the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorska and Zagreb County. The Fund for Reconstruction is being extended to Sisak-Moslavina County and the Karlovac County as well. In assisted areas where disaster has been declared, the Republic of Croatia is fully providing financing for the reconstruction of the property in which the owner or relatives live. In the implementation of the reconstruction of family homes in assisted areas affected by the disaster, the Central State Office for Reconstruction and Housing is involved. The earthquakes affected the cultural and historical whole will be restored on the basis of a programme designed by the Ministry of Culture in cooperation with local and regional self-government units. In the model of temporary housing care for the assistance of mobile, temporary and assembly facilities, the Reconstruction Fund is included. The rules of this law will also apply to all areas which would later be affected by an earthquake and are not directly listed through the legal provisions and the name itself. The possibility of redistribution of appropriations has been introduced and above existing appropriations in the existing and subsequently established budget items. A more effective and faster way of removing destroyed buildings whose remains threaten security is established. The Republic of Croatia, local and regional and regional self-government are obliged to provide temporary accommodation in real estate that is available to citizens whose homes cannot be used at the moment. The financing of renovations in the area of Sisak-Moslavina County and Karlovac County took into account the fact that it is economically weaker units which have been largely declared and supported areas in accordance with a specific regulation and for that reason the residents of that area are excluded from participating in the financing of the renovation. The financial means for the implementation of the obligations of the Republic of Croatia for the implementation of this law will be provided mainly in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia with additional funds for public purposes buildings to be provided by the Solidarity Fund, the World Bank loan and loans to other sources which may be part of the work and grants of other financial institutions or the multiannual financial framework of the EU. Following all of this, it is necessary to adopt a legislative framework as soon as possible to access the removal of dangers, recovery and full recovery. The adoption of this law is proposed by an emergency procedure in accordance with Article. 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28383	Thank you. I'm just asking you to clean up the pay phone, so I'm calling the Prime Minister, we've got 26 replicas, so 20's here from the assembly room, 6's from the hall around. And we'll start with a colleague named Hidash Doncic. Here you go. And I'm sorry, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed representative Selak Rasdic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28384	Art. In 238, Prime Minister Plenkovic told the truth, I mentioned Donja Stubica, and I explicitly told Gornja Stubica about the funding. But I will forgive you because you obviously don't even know that there are both Lower and Upper Stubica, but that's not the measure of this debate, and you skipped the metric by trying to jump and grab the laps. The criterion is how you can discriminate on different assisted areas that you have the same development index.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28385	Comrade Selak Rasudiæ, time is up. You're getting a warning, this is abuse of the Rules of Procedure. Here's my colleague, Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28386	Excuse me. I'm glad, Mr. Prime Minister, that you're calling, so to a consensus, that's great. But I would like to hear from you what is it that you think, in what way should we reach a consensus, whether through a parliamentary debate or through the acceptance of some of our amendments? What I would like to show and prove, so two basic axiomas of activities in society in Croatia, I think should be some and social and justness. A social state and a fair state. ... This law may not therefore correspond to these basic posts of an action because I have not actually noticed that it fully respects, for example, the social and real estate criteria of the owner of the property, but what is there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So let's try to fix it, let's see if we can put it through the county as a support status. areas, there are 12, so let's try Krapina-Zagorje County put [[Intruder: Thank you.]] in that assisted area. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, dear colleague Hajdash Doncic.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28387	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28388	Thank you very much. As for the new classification of units of local and regional self-government, we can only do so if we change the criteria, so we should now go into one exercise with experts based on this decision and make new criteria. There is one initiative by the Ministry of Regional Development to revise this because things are changing, however, to return to the key to your question, which is consensus. So when I say we're open, so I have the same approach about this law as I had in July, that means that I want to come up with a solution that, if we can, we can all stop, but then he's defensive, he's just and he's sustainable, so whether it's going to be a government amendment, whether it's going to be an amendment to the opposition, whether it's going to be an amendment to the opposition, it's less important to me, it's important that we find a solution that we can all stand about because I think we would also support you if the reverse situation were here. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28389	Thank you. Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28390	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, I would support the exposure of my colleagues, Bačić, who said that Banovina County, which was affected by this earthquake of the soft belly of Croatia, had suffered aggression, had now suffered much stronger earthquakes than had suffered the Zagreb area and what was covered by that first version of the law, but then let us not lie. We will not then be guided by the criteria of the assisted area, but that is why, for all these reasons stated by counterpart Bačić, we will also restore Banovina and Sisak with 100%. So with 100%, not only of those who are socially endangered, but of all of us today we have a meeting of the opposition at 3 o'clock, we're going to ask you, therefore, by restoring all the citizens of Sisak regardless of the social criteria, Given all the consideration, this [[Intruder: Thank you.]] My colleague Bacic said. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28391	Thank you. I think I saw a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here's my colleague, Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28392	Excuse me, I don't know which article to call on, but please warn the Prime Minister to pay attention to what MPs are saying, not to play with his cell phone continuously for a payphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28393	You get a warning, sit down and stop reporting so pointlessly and break the Rules of Procedure. Please, because I'm going to warn you every time you take a cell phone, you take it all the time and stop running a circus here in the assembly room. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28394	Thank you, well-respected president of HS, as regards the meeting of opposition deputies, however, let's see which version of the just solution you can implement, we will consider it. As for Representative Zekanovic, I hope that you have been a little less eliminated than you were yesterday, that you checked with your colleague Ilčić, who has been an ambition of HRAST since 2016, I see that he ended up on the list, waiting for Mr. Ruža Tomasic for what time he says he's going into political retirement so he can give him the mandate, that you are able to say that it's not true, that means you're not telling the truth, ie. That you're lying, but it's not a problem for me. There are a lot of us who have been to these meetings and we know exactly what this is about, it wasn't about you, it was about your colleague back then and the party president, it's important to know, especially from you who have something against Europe, I guess Europe is bad at talking about the European report, but when you should take a European salary, then it'll be okay. That's what it comes down to, Mr. Zekanovic and be a little less exclusive than you were yesterday, it's good for your health.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28395	Prime Minister, you have now broken the Rules of Procedure, I cannot give you a warning because you spoke out of the question, but please do not do so, so I believe that my colleague Zekanovic, I have said what was important I'm asking you to give up on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Let's move on. Now it's time for a respected colleague, Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28396	Dear Prime Minister. It bothers you that I'm reading, and I'm just going to ask you to start reading, at least those decisions you sign. And I will return to the Decision declaring the Law on Supported Areas and ask you to explain to Croatian citizens how you introduce discrimination between Gornja Stubica and Petrinja in the same category. And if you really cared about the assisted areas that died in the Homeland War, then she or she would not have been assisted, or she would have stopped being a long time ago. Do not manipulate the patriotic feelings of Croatian citizens when you are trying to conceal the sloppy bill you have drawn from this. Explain to our citizens on what criteria do you introduce discrimination?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28397	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28398	Dear MPs Selak Rasdic, unlike you, the government has a proposal, you have nothing, you have read or not read, you have nothing, you have nothing, you only have flossules that you try to place all this time, it's a part of your political style, it's a lot of pathetic, it's demagogy, it's the lowest pulsism. In the first earthquake, the government made a quality law, a sustainable law, a fair law. This is an earthquake that is stronger, an area that is otherwise undeveloped. I just said in the opening speech that we need to find solutions where there will be no discrimination, and you have this creative and magical way to solve it. I don't hear anything from you about any subject too much and more specifically than just lamentation without any substance.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28399	Here you are, a violation of the Rules of Procedure of colleague Selak Rasudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28400	Art. In 238, the prime minister demeaned me and insulted me without answering the question again. I was very specific and applied to explicit decisions. There's not a word about populism and flosscule. If you are interested in what solutions we offer, we have already offered guidelines on Monday for the renewal strategy of Banovina which we have developed in agreement with experts, and you have not yet started to write.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28401	You're getting a second warning now. I'm warning you one more time and you're going to lose your ability to speak on this wheel. What you're doing is a continuous violation of the Rules of Procedure, and please don't do that. Now it's MP Zekanovic's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28402	Dear Prime Minister, you are not responsible for the earthquake as your colleague and aide Bozinovic say, but you are the most responsible for the restoration since you are the Prime Minister. I heard that you just thanked various groups of GSS, firemen, police and military, and I, of course, join thanks, but you forgot to list some of the same extremely important factors in those most difficult days for, for the recovery of the earthquake affected areas. I would mention here since it will not occur to you, these are fans of all Croatian fan groups who are in those moments, I will dare say, were also key to helping the victims because the state has failed. And I will also mention Croatian emigration, or Croatian emigration, which has so far raised a lot of money and collects and continues to help and helps with the earthquake of affected space. Question for you, one simple question, are you satisfied with this 10-month reconstruction of the City of Zagreb?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28403	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28404	Another attempt by MP Zekanovic to demagoguely place his thesis, but less exclusive than yesterday, but we will see that there will be progress during the morning of your condition, so we will follow it with interest. You obviously didn't follow my presentations yesterday where I explicitly thanked the emigration for the help they gave Croatia, this county, payments, concrete assistance, the material aid they provided, even Mr Bartulica noticed it, so in his presentation he referred to that part of my speech, but I imagine you missed it since the execution. As for the cheerleading groups, I said so in this political context a few days ago and I can only say that I absolutely thank them for making a great contribution, as well as many other citizens who are not fan groups. When I think of the citizens then and think of everything, were they members of some informal fan groups or associations, I'm just as fond of everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28405	Thank you very much. Comrade Bulj, I apologize, you've called before, but I haven't caught it, so here's the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28406	Thank you very much, President. The Prime Minister has been injured by an article. In 238, where he went down on the MPs from my club unfairly insulting that we didn't have any suggestions. Yes, we gave for these 2/3 Croatian proposals, we gave the amendments to the dates on the highway not only of Banovina but of my Dalmatian burns, you rejected them. You only gave the Prime Minister what you were doing, for example. in Split, for undeveloped areas in Dalmatia, you made proposals, and of that you achieved nothing, zero.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28407	My colleague Bulj and you get the same warning, this is a replica, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Zekanovic, here you go and you have... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28408	238, you just warned the Prime Minister where he got off the subject, now you didn't warn him, so I'm calling for an article. 238, the president is not talking about the subject again, or he's not answering my question that I asked him, but he's trying to diphrase me somehow, and he forgets when we talk about the extermination that he ran here through the assembly wanted to physically deal with the MPs, and that's where he showed his true character, when he was protected by 5 security guards and a teammate of HDZs and then there was this guy, a pounds of spiders, so... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28409	My colleague Zekonović, you also get a second warning, and I am also warning you that the next warning will mean that you can no longer speak today. Comrade Boric, you have a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28410	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Zekanovic often insults, this one is hurting this Rules of Procedure, he did it again, he's making false statements again because I think if he listened well to the Prime Minister's question he asked. He's deliberately creating a mess here in the assembly, and yesterday's fallout must be for the annals of this house and this assembly. They're MPs who come here on purpose to create a mess because they don't have any policies and they just want to put themselves at the centre of attention in any way, that's what he often does, and his cell phone is the main tool for his work.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28411	Thank you, dear fellow Boric. I warned my colleague Zekanovic, so your intervention wasn't necessary, and I'm also giving you a warning. Let's move on now, now it's time for counterpart Nikolic, come on in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28412	Thank you, Prime Minister. Most of the structures carried out in the restoration were performed without vertical and over basic serclaises, which is one of the basic anti-quake conditions. Will any of the participants in the construction, projectors, contractor, supervisory engineer, auditor, investor of the Republic, bear responsibility for an unquality reconstruction that has resulted in the destruction of objects and the endangerment of human lives? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28413	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28414	I don't know if you followed yesterday's debate and everything we said, so I'm going to remind you once again of a media hack that referred to the question of post-war renewal that was about to give the impression that all the houses that were damaged or destroyed in the earthquake were related to post-war reconstruction. You saw according to the data that I presented yesterday 5,888 houses that were restored in the Sisak-Moslavina County after the war compared to the current estimates of them more than 3,700 red stickers or unusable received only 69, 1.83% of it is very important to repeat that the thesis is removed, not to protect anyone but to remove that hack that you are de facto suggesting. Our position is the same, everything explored, all enlightened, no untouchable if anyone is responsible, will answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28415	Comrade Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28416	I agree with you and I think there's some will to achieve some consensus anyway. But what I really doubt is what you're saying as an additional revitalization of the economy, that it's really going to happen. If we take into account that another 5 September in this assembly was warned that the workers of the refinery Sisak were fired, that this was the case and justified that the workers of the Refinery Sisak had to be fired for allegedly one policy of the administration that has the right to do so and every time we ask you a question about how we are going to revitalise the economy, you answer that these are the autonomous interests of private companies that you cannot influence. Neither Crosco nor Janaf nor the Sisak Refinery should have been destroyed the way you did it. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28417	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28418	I do not see any of your proposals regarding this law, the issue of revitalisation and economic renewal of this whole area is the task we have given to the task of working group, led by Minister Tramišak, Minister Ćoric. You are not selected in the 6th constituency, so you are not intended to participate in it, but those MPs who are able to contribute, and these topics that you now state have absolutely nothing to do with this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28419	Now it's up to representative Ban Vlahek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28420	Your Honor, Prime Minister. I wonder if you can give our citizens from Bania concrete and clear information when a permanent solution to the damage caused by the earthquake will be implemented? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28421	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28422	The first thing we need to do is help in terms of clearing up and security that is currently going on and doing a number of services from the stats to all of these that we listed at the outset. Secondly, we need to find a legal framework. Third, we need to make a programme of measures transparently in accordance with this law to carry out all purchases and start working. At this point when I would tell you the calendar it would be very irresponsible on my part, but what we're going to do is we're going to do it as soon as possible because here's the vast majority of these victims' facilities, it's about family houses, and they're by model different ones that we're looking at right now can be restored much, much faster than they are building blocks, for example in the City of Zagreb, so I'm from what I see and what I'm consulting with the experts here we can be faster and more efficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28423	Comrade Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28424	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister. What is the state and impairment of health institutions in Sisak-Moslavina County now after these recent earthquakes, do you have a final insight? Nine of those facilities are owned by the county. At what rate will these institutions be restored, in what order and how will funding go? At Sisak General Hospital, a new building was built where OHBP, which, according to my field knowledge, would require few final works and could soon be opened. Now, since the initially planned opening of this new pavilion is just ahead of local elections, which would, of course, be useful to your mayor there, will you put in the first place hospital employees and patients and actually encourage this pavilion to open as soon as possible so that patients shouldn't take care of tents what is the situation now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28425	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28426	Thank you very much for that question, and it's good to evacuate it a little bit on these loose comments as Mr. Zekanovic, who says so easily that the state has failed. On the day of the earthquake, the state evacuated the entire Sisak hospital and you know it as well as its share in Petrinja, all patients were taken care of in Zagreb hospitals. It happened in one afternoon, we had so-called. real time transfer if someone is waiting half an hour or an hour to transfer to Zagreb. It only tells you about the well-being of those who followed, observed and commented, I'm talking about the same day as the earthquake, very important. As far as the united emergency hospital reception is concerned, it is a 9000 square-square building that was intact in the earthquake, which, according to my information, was supposed to have been completed before New Year's Eve, due to the covida-19 delay. We gave the order to speed it all up because if that building gets better, then most of the need with certain adjustments in Sisak will be resolved, and so on. and in the county practically. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28427	My colleague, Mr. Tarritash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28428	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Prime Minister. It is best to ask the citizens of the City of Zagreb about what kind of law is in force and how much conduct it is best to ask the citizens of the City of Zagreb, and it would be good to have someone bring your attention today's article where the points on which people are allowed to apply at all and that the documentation is somewhere costing about 10,000 kuna, but that's where I'm going to put the point. What is my question to you and which I will direct, so after the earthquake that was destroyed was and which hit the area of Banovina or Banovina if we continue like this soon we will call the container of the land, so there will be no more Bani or Banovina, the citizens have organized themselves and helped. And now the second wave of organization is moving, citizens are renovating their own properties, but that's not the end of it. So you have donors who clearly say we can't wait for the state we won't wait for the state we'll build a house here, we'll donate 5 houses, what do you do, do you agree not to do it without control? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28429	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28430	Your Honor, ma'am. Dark Taritash, you are the champion and champion of the restoration in Gunja behind which there are no tails and problems left, is that in the sense of the reputation of your comments quite important detail, is it not? Secondly, as for the City of Zagreb and the documentation, it seems to me that you do a lot of construction work. I have not noticed that it is a job that is done without documents, papers, legal certainty and a long-term framework that is sustainable. Therefore, collecting documentation or saying needs too much paper is another kind of banalization of this debate. What's good is that Minister Horvat ended up so-called the common rules for the competition to be called for cultural heritage, the contest to be opened for healthcare institutions, the competition to be called for educational institutions, that the City of Zagreb should do the same for infrastructure and transport and then the renewal will take place, and as far as the container is concerned, I think it is a very inappropriate comment. I don't even know how you can say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28431	Thank you very much. Here's to the violation of the Rules of Procedure of colleague Mrak Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28432	President-in-Office of the Assembly, this is the first time I've ever used a breach of the Rules of Procedure and I'm calling for an article. 238. What Mr. Plenkovic thinks of me or doesn't think of him is something I think of me. After the Cvelferia renovation, there were 6 settlements and 40 public purpose buildings were renovated, 2300 family homes that were renovated by the state in 13 months, and all the conditions could be met by you in your government and seen because the same people who worked Gunja continue to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28433	Thank you very much, you are getting an injury or warning because this was not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, but a replica because the Prime Minister did not say anything that would be a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Let's move on, now it's time for my colleague Bencic, come on in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28434	Thank you, Prime Minister. The proposal to amend and supplement the law introduces the possibility of 100% state funding, so different types of reconstruction. However, this 100% state funding depends on 2 conditions which must be cumulatively met or 2 criteria, one is that it is an assisted area, and the other is that it is a disaster area. Now, what's the big deal? Supported areas are defined at two levels both at the county level and at the JLS level. It is not clear from the proposal for a law which of these categorizations will apply, so you used the fact to throw Sisak out, and leave all other JLSs, and by the criteria of declaration of disaster you naturally threw Krapina-Zagorje County out of the possibility of applying that same criterion. It can't be about the government's arbitration decision to declare a disaster because it's driven by the government's dependence on the equality of citizens' rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28435	Thank you very much. Please start coming out of the minute, please hold on for a minute. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28436	Okay. Dear Representative Bencic, do I understand you well that we should not have declared a disaster then?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28437	No, you're gonna need to declare a disaster in the first case.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28438	You can't answer, this is a rhetorical question.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28439	My colleagues, Bencic, you must seek word in HS. No one says when he wants it but when it's approved because everyone says when... No, that was a rhetorical question, so please be nice about what we're going to do now. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Please ask, I won't give you a warning now, but I'll give it another time. ... What's the matter? [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] So please, just act in accordance with the rules, you all act, you call on the laws, you obey the norms, you're all very loud when it comes to it, but when you have to act here according to the rules, then don't do it, you're not credible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28440	Thank you very much. It was a rhetorical question of respected counsel Bencic, but it's not bad for you to react and answer and say your position. So that's what I told you, it was a different force of earthquakes, it's important to you, 6.2 is much more powerful than 5.5, so let's ask a little bit and consult you must have some contacts with seismologists, so you'll see what's going on and that's the biggest and most important difference between what we're talking about. The second is the extent of damage and objects in certain environments, so let's say the city of Sisak will tell you representative Celjak how many houses and buildings are damaged. What I want is to find a consensus in a situation that is not at all simple to be just.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28441	My colleagues, Vucilović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28442	I thank the chairman. Dear Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, I agree with you that we need to deal with the situation in Banovina as soon as possible, and all of us who were on the ground will support it, and we were able to see for ourselves how bad this situation is. But once again, I do not see any reason why these supplements would allow the redistribution of funds not only from the state budget but also from the JLS budgets which are, however, not in line with the Budget Law. To clarify, it means Mayor Žinic, who has shown himself to be very skilled in acrobatics with the state, using state-owned apartments and houses will get before local elections the possibility of such similar acrobatics working in a county budget that is not in line with the Budget Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28443	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28444	Well, the reason we made it possible in the article, I think it's 5a. If I am not mistaken, the redistribution of funds by the state would help the units of the regional self-government in this particular case of Sisak-Moslavina County is more than clear and logical. Sisak-Moslavina County is in this first group, which some of your colleagues who read these decisions well in 2017, and we think it is not realistic that such a great financial effort can endure alone, it is simply not realistic in any way and therefore the state comes to help it and it is not intended to bypass the Croatian Parliament, but in order to be quite clear that these 20% that are intended to give them the unit of regional self-government to be there and not really be there, that is the point of this article.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28445	Now they're going to be replicating a colleague of the Story, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28446	Dear Prime Minister, I hope that the reconstruction in Sisak, Petrinja and Glina and other earthquake-affected sites will begin as soon as possible. Unfortunately, the experience from Zagreb is different, 10 m. It's been since the devastating earthquake, it hasn't started rebuilding yet, and the citizens are unfortunately left to themselves. Today you commended your government's work on the earthquake, but well, no one else praises you, so I guess it's okay to praise yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28447	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28448	Well, you'll be commending now that what Minister Horvat is doing is on the move and we'll meet again and you'll be commending.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28449	Comrade Tomasevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28450	Thank you. I think it's crucial that such laws avoid any arbitration and some kind of help and funding on some kind of party key. And from that perspective, I don't think anything that introduces any arbitration criteria is right. And you said yourself that there aren't very clear criteria when it's called disaster for an area, and that means 100% state funding, I don't think that's good. On the other hand, I think I very much agree with you to finance buildings for public purposes but not by redistributing it, but I think it should be clearly written in the law for this particular area, for assisted areas to be 100% funded by the state of public purpose buildings and that it is precisely to avoid again on some party key that for some municipalities and cities in one county is given and for others not. And on the third hand, when you're talking about the documentation on the Law on Reconstruction of Zagreb and the Environment, in terms of implementation, it is clear that documentation needs to be made, however, why citizens need to go to the public's counters of the state administration, and that's what the state is charging them to give them the documentation that the state has anyway. In order to obtain financial assistance from that same country [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] and why it's taking so long. [[Break president: Thank you very much, colleague Tomaševic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28451	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28452	Thank you very much, Agent Tomasevic. I don't know if you have any illusions or what's happening to you, what party key? What party key are we talking about? I don't understand at all, it's like your question yesterday...... Well, do you really think someone here is indecipherable so that a 6.2 earthquake could be applied to some imaginary, hypothetical, sparky, fictitious party key? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] I don't even know what's going on at those internal meetings of yours, I'd like to be a mole at the meeting. We can see who he was talking about if there was a party key after earthquake 6.2. Because I have to admit that I don't understand, I don't get it. I can't even figure it out. What do you think HDZ would get with that? What's the benefit of that? Give me an explanation. If you would explain the benefit, here I'll say, benefit of the doubt, you're right but I don't think you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28453	Thank you. Comrade Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28454	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Prime Minister, I'm actually surprised at my colleagues and they could read in the media that this particular 6.2-magnetude earthquake actually felt not only in Sisak-Moslavina County but was shaking again Zagreb and it was also shaking and felt Slovenia, Serbia and even in Italy in the Czech Republic. So when you decided to change this law to actually be a disaster, a declared disaster, then this is enough and a great reason to actually create any further action. Therefore, I don't think they really understand the scale of this earthquake that happens and which in this way is actually important to disrupt in fact almost 1/3 of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28455	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28456	I agree with you, there have been many from neighbouring countries who have felt very strongly about this earthquake compared to the other one, and that element of the earthquake force is the most important aspect when we look at how to approach the recovery and how to finance it or co-finance it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28457	Now it's my fellow Highdukovic's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28458	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, yesterday during a debate on the report from the European Council, you spoke and thanked all of our friends from the Union who helped us and you said we were not alone and we are not friends. And the truth is, Croatia has friends in Europe but I wonder if there is one in Croatia? Is there any in this building across the street from this square? Why? Because there are no clear and uniform criteria in dealing with all the areas affected by this disaster? Is Sisak equal to Zagreb? Sisak, who has damaged a good man in your government, who's been working on entry deals with the Hungarians at the expense of our refineries, at the expense of our citizens, and now we're probably trying to end this passive end. And if there's any place more passive than my Slavonia from which I come, then I'd dare say it's Bania and Sisak in it, or in Sisak-Moslavina County. I just don't think it's okay to have such a particular approach especially in a piece like this that's passive.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28459	Thank you very much. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28460	Thank you very much, Agent Hajdukovic. We will soon have a chance to discuss the project Slavonia here, so we will see who gave more what one episode of "Little Myst" would say for Slavonia, whether our Government or perhaps yours or your majority where you were, and you will hear it thoroughly from ministers and parliamentary representatives. This government recognized the problem of Banovina's development, recognized the problem of the development of the Dalmatian Zagora, like, the Gorski Kotar, the whole area that is part of our electoral programme and the government's programme, which, with or without earthquakes, would be implemented and invested in it. Your politicization on the trail of the Sisak mayor is clear to me who, in essence, Mr. Tomašević is using the party key, now you've heard it, if you haven't had that information before. Otherwise, the earthquake that hit Sisak was 11 times stronger than the earthquake in Zagreb. It's very important that you know, 11 times That's not what they're talking about, like they were the same, they're not. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28461	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28462	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, you have set out the criteria by which units of local self-government are classified according to the level of development. I was just looking for a break on behalf of the club saying it didn't matter living in a local self-government unit that's in Group I if it's in County that's in IV. as is Dubrovnik-Neretva and if such is the same unit of local self-government in the Sisak-Moslavina County which is in the Ith Development Group. As paired, the president of the SDP and Mr. Siniša Hajdas Doncic who said no, if we are helping with the basis of the development of a single unit of local self-government, for example in Glina, Petrinja, then we must also go to Gornji Stubica. But at the time, I didn't know that they were saying one thing and the other were writing, meanwhile they submitted the amendment, the SDP, in which they asked for help in the same unit of local self-government, for example in Petrinja but not to be helped in Gornji Stubica. So much for their credibility, It doesn't help. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] So he can go to Petrinja but we can't go to Gornji Stubica. And before that, they asked for it to be in Petrina and Gornji Stubica. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28463	Comrade Bacic, please. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28464	I thank Commissioner Bačić, it is good that we have explained this, it is obviously a day of confabulation, Gornja, Donja Stubica, where the degree of development belongs, who supports her, who does not support her, the government's policy is that we support just every end of Croatia, every place, every municipality, every city, every county, and it is normal for the average to be unique and it is clear that there are individual units within the county that are more developed than the average of the county. Well, the example of Sisak compared to all other units of Sisak-Moslavina County is most observantly showing what it is and that does not mean for Representative Celjak, that Sisak should not be helped, and I see that both Representative Hajdas Doncic and Grbin quickly lost interest in this debate, we are still in the opening work, it is not irrelevant.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28465	Now it's my fellow Bartulica's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28466	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, I welcome your willingness to try to reach a consensus on this issue. I think the Croatian public is expecting a constructive debate, it is a difficult situation. I'm going to remind you of one of my amendments to the new budget, I've been looking for increased funds for elemental disasters, which the government unfortunately refused, in case she accepted, she'd already have more money and resources to help these people. However, my question concerns the principle of solidarity. I studied the necessary documentation that is necessary when looking for funds for reconstruction. I think we should go out to meet people and reduce, significantly reduce those needs, there are 15 different categories various solutions, finds and the like. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Do you agree?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28467	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28468	I agree with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28469	Now it's time for my colleague Posavec the Guilty, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28470	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Prime Minister, I believe that we will agree and I want to believe that all parliamentary representatives in this Chamber and outside it are aware that this disaster is the natural of 6.2 is indeed the biggest disaster that has affected the population of this area and that this is about resolving their existential issues, about their future and the future of these children. And from everything that is the end, we call the end of Banovina, the end of Bania, the central Croatia, the heart of Croatia or whatever we want to call it, in history gave it to the Republic, I think the time is that we should be solidarity with them, not in the way that Croatian society and Croatian man showed it too late, but systematically as a state. So I ask you, are you willing to do justice to the citizens of Sisak and release them from any share in the cost of reconstruction?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28471	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28472	Thank you very much, dear representative Posavec. I think that in the opening work we have offered the entire Croatian Parliament to find a fair solution that will take into account the extent of the damage, the number of houses, the buildings that have died in Sisak, they are significantly bigger than elsewhere, there is the largest concentration of the population in Sisak-Moslavina County and if we were not open, it would not have said that. But I need to have a defensive law so there's no discrimination as your colleagues say diagonally above you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28473	Thank you very much. We're now going to the replica of Vice President of the Scorah Parliament, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28474	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Honorable Prime Minister, this law, as well as all good wishes, must always be supported by means. We spend some 15 billion kuna a year on rural development, to promote rural development, unfortunately that area was abandoned even before this earthquake. The funds to be determined by redistribution in the budget are not intended for discussion and control anywhere. In this law, it provides for the Minister of Finance to submit a report to the relevant Committee on Finance, mayors and mayors, mayors of representative bodies. Representatives' bodies meet once every three months under the law. and they file a report once a month. It is not as particularly logical as it is not good that the Budget Act in Art. 46. item 6. that should be notified by the Croatian Parliament and based on this it appears that you will be allowed to do so with some discretionary right which I do not consider to be good for the budget or for those funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28475	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28476	Thank you very much, Agent Skoro. I think it's Mrs. Devereaux. Vuciilovic from your club asked the same question, so look at the video answers I gave her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28477	Comrade Petyr, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28478	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Mr. Prime Minister, last year in September, a gathering of Survival in Banovina was held to which all VI deputies were invited. the election units, together with experts and scientists, to consider the long-term development and survival of the region. We responded as colleagues Bosnjakovic and I. I am sorry that there had to be an earthquake to make certain MPs realize that Banovina is hard to live on and Banovina is part of their electoral unit. I am sorry to see it here today in this debate and I think it offends all citizens of Sisak-Moslavina County trying to oppose them City of Zagreb and some other county. I must remind you that in 30 years some residents of Sisak-Moslavina County have lost their home for the second time, and that is something that is terrible, which needs to be accepted and should be supported. It is therefore important to hear from you that you will share with us as you promised to seek solutions that will be of quality that will allow fast and quality renovation, but also long-term survival of Banovina. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28479	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28480	Thank you very much, counsel Petyr. It was the government's idea to include just all MPs from the 6th electoral unit, regardless of whether the parliamentary majority or whether they are an opposition to the joint work of a group led by the two ministers, logically due to the regional development of Minister Tramišak, and because of the economic recovery of Minister Ćorić, and that, with the contribution of the local self-government and parliamentary representatives and the competent resolutions of the Government and the academic community and all other stakeholders, we are not just going to draw up a plan that will be a physical person who would eliminate the container of the region that is propagating some of the MPs here, but it is not an idea. The idea is to create sustainable and life and economic revitalisation of the area, including that key problem that is not only present in Banovina but also elsewhere, which is demographic revitalisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28481	Now it's my friend Bulj's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28482	Thank you very much. The prime minister, such as the Banovina earthquake, has shown and revealed a number of problems in the functioning of the system, and that is why these laws are now stemming from those laws that will discriminate against a particular part that is under the earthquake against one that is not. And therefore, it is evident that our and the legislation, and especially those who should be trained and where it should not happen that the area is working out for the sake of volunteers, should make a breakdown, invite the National Security Council you and the President and make a good analysis of why what should have been trained from the Homeland Security System, and of course what about the stock reserves, because if we don't get out of this lesson, then there is no threat that will not lead us to the same situation. what you've taken on this matter and... /The speakers speak at the same time./...and which is the conclusion. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28483	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28484	Your Honor, Mr. Bull. I believe that while you were in Banovina, you followed the activity of all components of this time the civil protection system with complementary activities of the Croatian military, so we can analyze whether everything was in the moment, quickly and effectively as someone thinks it should be, but when you look at it, there is not a single component that wasn't practically there within a few hours and didn't do its job. If you find me one who didn't do her job, I'd like to hear it from you. As for the analysis, of course after a certain time when we see the whole picture after such a devastating earthquake, an analysis will be made and we'll see how to be more effective from these lessons learned in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28485	Comrade Oreshkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28486	Thank you. Prime Minister, you spoke to the rhetorical SDP and asked who gave Slavonia more, and I ask you who took more from Slavonia? That's what I'm asking you in the context of the latest affair in Požega and your colleague Darko Puljasic. You are also accusing the opposition that we are confabulating and that we are imaginatively accusing HDZ of eto political criteria in the award of certain privileges. So I ask you, will all citizens have the right to housing according to the criteria Mr Ivo Žinic had? It is truly amazing to me that there could be an ordinary citizen who could have in his possession and enjoy state property for decades, and thus his political party knows about it personally and is silent about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28487	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28488	Dear Representative Oreshkovic. How do you know I know that? Where did you verify that? /Speakers speak at the same time./... [[Orešković: So you have fantastic radar.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28489	You will now receive the warning of your colleague Oreshkovic. I warned you already I was a colleague of Bencic's, please don't do that, it's just rude. What you're doing, if all MPs were to do, the Parliament would really become what one former culture minister was saying, and I'm asking you not to, and let's stick to the order. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28490	So here's this example of the intervention of MP Oreshkovic is exactly the label-ing that we had the opportunity to look at yesterday every current hour in advance probably the PR agency drawn up questions prewritten so-called. respond to the satisfaction and dissatisfaction of what the members and members of the Government are doing. It's part of the political game, Mrs. Devereaux. Oreshkovic represents a strong party, represents a very large number of Croatian voters, we will take care of what it suggests to us on all topics.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28491	Now it's my fellow Sacic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28492	Your Honor. As a successful military commander and in the name of exactly the play of such people, I set up reading by respecting the fact that every 100, 150 years, such terrible disasters occur, whether the state system, and we believe that it had to and could have reacted better regardless of the partial sacrificial actions of our firefighters, HGSS parts, etc., I don't think that the government has brought to life a system of homeland security where civil protection or any other power would have been in charge, and that there are at least 100, 150,000 experienced people available, past the Homeland War and in any other sense that are not at all engaged, and right here they could have been expressed, that there are no first days of confusion and that absolutely more systematic access to this crisis. And more importantly, state-owned stockpiles. They're out of order. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28493	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28494	Thank you very much. So we have a civil protection system, we have a system of homeland security. One of the main reasons for the launch of the civil protection system are natural disasters such as earthquakes, so that's the point and that's the difference. What you're saying is your position and desire to contribute to these situations is given by those who showed up in the Homeland War, who were part of the police system, who were Croatian defenders of the Croatian Army. I will remind you that on the ground they were practically half an hour after the earthquake and members of the Croatian Army and members of Croatian police and firemen and HGSS and civil protection and local self-government and state intervention units, the Red Cross, Caritas engaged, all citizens, I said that there is no disturbance, there is a huge expression of solidarity between Croatian people which should not be prevented in any way but should be grateful.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28495	Thank you. Hey, buddy Buck, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28496	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, the decision to classify units of local and regional self-government according to the degree of development is a very important document for this law because the basis of this decision then identifies the assisted areas by means of the Regional Development Act. Of course, the treatment of the city of Sisak in your bill of law is related. However, I believe that the resolution on classification expired. It was adopted on 28 December 2017, in force from 1 January 2018 but under the law has a period of 3 years. Because according to Art. Thirty-two. The law on the classification of units of local self-government is implemented every 3 years. The decision is made by the Government. The question is, why didn't you make that decision in time, when will you make it? And wouldn't it be necessary to make a reference? [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] to that new decision and new indicators in this law? [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28497	Comrade Granny, thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28498	Thank you very much. Minister Tramišak, together with experts, is usually done in a way to hire external experts primarily from the economic colleges in Croatia, working on a new decision, on a new criterion, and it will also be taken when the job is finished.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28499	Now it's time for my colleague, Vrkljan, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28500	Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister. Banovina is one of the poorest parts of Croatia, over 300,000 of our citizens have moved out of Croatia in the last 7 years and 240 000 have been completed. One significant number has moved right out of this area and is a percentage of the most significant numbers and parts of the family that have been completed right from that area. I'm interested in what the government will do for families that are under the roof and is it planned in case the renewal is delayed and there is no possibility that these houses can be restored, that the containers should be taken into account?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28501	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28502	Dear Representative Vrkljan, this question can only be asked to the believer, so-called Thesis on the deep state. I've seen you have a controversy with your former colleagues from the Homeland Movement, who works more for HDZ, you or them? It was one of the funniest, most ridiculous debates in the political space of Croatia for a long time, we have nothing to do with you, nor would we want to have it, and neither with those of whom you left. So this mutual accusation of HDZ for your egotrips is one of the funniest stories of the Croatian scene in 2021, almost surreal that such a thing exists at all, but good. As far as the performance is concerned, if you had followed yesterday's debate in the current class, you would have seen those decisions already taken by Finn, taken by the IRS, taken by the Public Bookmark Chamber, if you had followed it, you would have known the answer to your question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28503	Find a colleague, now it's your turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28504	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Dear Prime Minister, since you said that since the postwar reconstruction is close to 2% of the property that was being renovated by the state, let's say it's so questionablely restored, and that's only what we know, I would remind you that 2% of the 50 billion kuna, even billions of kuna, so it's not in these terms inescapable means, so I'd ask a question, which is why you assure the citizens that similar things will not happen now, since we see that we have not, I don't know, some hot purchasing models, we have Jinic's reconstruction models, we have Bandic's models of writing consumers. So I think that citizens should still be convinced that this huge money for Croatian opportunities will still be spent in a transparent and fair way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28505	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28506	Dear Representative Find, I don't know if anyone here in this public debate understands what a 6.2 earthquake per Richter means? I don't think anyone understands that. Because it turns out if you had a quality postwar renovation and your house is in the epicenter and your earthquake is 6.2, it's gonna stay like no one blinked. So that thesis is developing in public space. I think there's a little bit of that salt of common sense and understanding that would help with the fact that only those objects that belong to the so-called. You. the category to be restored from the foundation, i.e. There was a new foundation, everyone else was rehabilitated or done on the old foundations, and it was hardly known at that time what their foundations were like. So that thesis should be removed with arguments. As for the transparency of future public procurement and all that will seem, here is Minister Horvat and others in charge and should behave.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28507	I thank the Prime Minister, no more replicas for him. We have two more replicas for Minister Horvat, so please replace the seats and please clear the pay phone. The first replica of the esteemed colleague of Juričev-Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28508	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Minister, what you said about the earthquake has caused great human casualties and great damage. We have thousands of unusable objects, we have thousands of objects that are temporarily unusable, we have objects that are under special cultural protection, and each of these objects has its own special story, of when it was built, in which way it was built, and the life story of the people who are in these objects. The eyes of all Croatia are against each of these individual objects, and each of us wants and we insist that this restoration be quality, that it be just, that people who are in a more financially poor situation do not have to co-finance, they do not want to be corrected and those who have previously wronged themselves. I want to point out to this occasion how sensitive the process is and what we have to do and what we have to do, so it was also necessary to pass a new regulation and everything that follows us is sensitive.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28509	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28510	Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, honourable Parliamentarians, for asking the question, that we want a more quality law, a fair model, a fair and quality renewal, which we want to be sure that I am all here by consensus and therefore prepare and last a little longer. But what is the fact and what I repeat from day to day, so expert opinions, do not write politics, expert opinions where and in what way we will give the profession, the academic community and Croatian entrepreneurs. As far as possible, we will install the Croatian product into the reconstruction and thus contribute to the competitiveness of the Croatian economy and economic growth. What concerns me is a political spin, whether it's a more important quality or speed, I agree fully with you, so quality in the first place and a fair model in which there will be no difference for anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28511	Thank you, Minister. Please, colleagues who are on the sidelines and loudly say they speak a little more quietly only. Now it's time for my esteemed colleague, Grman Kizvat, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28512	I thank President HS. Dear Minister, although we are discussing new amendments to the law today, I must ask you something about the first earthquake. In fact, in this assembly on several occasions, I was talking about a family that was cut off for a paid rent, and the wrong system assigned them yellow instead of red tag. After the intervention of the N1 television and the Morning List and my asking questions, they were corrected. I wonder what's wrong with the other eight families. That's what I'm asking you because I've been waiting three months for an answer to my representative's question. And the second question is the same question of the terrain, from the field of people who are from Zagreb, they want to know if they can expect the government to make sure that they are co-financed 20%, can expect a more favourable or favourable credit line for reconstruction, did you go in that direction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28513	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28514	Thank you very much for asking. So, if I can use your rhetoric, let those of you who have thus been treated forgive me if there have been 8 mistakes so far and that first one that was a Trigger and all these seven so all eight have been resolved. But I still wouldn't call it a mistake because it was the decision of the statistician profession if, if they were wrong, they were, therefore, clear instructions during a public call, who has the right to the database produced by the statisticians and which is still owned by the construction college today.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28515	Thank you Minister, it's over with the replicas, you can go back to your seat. Now I'm going to call the committee's reporters who want to take a word for it. Come in, colleague Štromar, chairman of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28516	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the Honorable Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of HS was held at the 6th session on 18 January '21. discusses the proposed law in question as the parent body in accordance with Article 1(1) of the Rules of Procedure. 93. The Rules of Procedure of HS. The following opinions and comments have been expressed. The debate questioned solutions related to funding ratios in different JLS, taking into account the different development index and citizens' rights in terms of criteria they must meet in those cases where they do not have financial participation obligations. The opinion has been expressed that there is no systematic approach to the problem of rebuilding earthquake-damaged buildings, that redistribution of funds in the budget should be more transparent, and that the issue of the remains of people in the areas affected by the earthquake in Sisak-Moslavina County is very complex and surpasses the recovery itself. The debate sets out the following proposals, that it is necessary to clearly determine the responsibility in the reconstruction process, that the deadline is related to the availability of real estate in art. 7. be fixed, and it is necessary to draw up a diagram of the process flow in the process of renewal and to enable citizens to carry out all the necessary documentation in one place. The debate supported the proposed law in question, it noted that the same was based on the applicable law which was thoroughly discussed at the plenary session relating to the target area, and held the view that the economic and time-consuming aspects of reconstruction were taken into account. After the debate was held, the Committee decided to propose to the HS the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the restoration of buildings damaged by the earthquake in the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorska County and Zagreb County. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28517	I thank my colleague Stromara. Is there anyone else from the board president? No, I don't. Then we move on to the debate, the first is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, two MPs, colleagues Zekanovic and Sacic, will be the first to be a colleague of Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28518	The Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Ministers and Ministers, and the President of the Assembly, of course both colleagues and colleagues. Before I start just one small note of business nature, if the Rules of Procedure is changed, let time be regulated as long as the rapporteur of the committee can speak, that was the case, because it can speak unlimitedly and one little other note, I would like the Rules of Procedure to enter that no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And I don't see how anyone can justify it. Unfortunately, we're all addicted to these devices and we use them daily and everywhere, but from the bed, toilets, but I don't think it's right here that we're playing with a cell phone, the whole state is watching us, the fellow MPs are watching us, so it's not right from any of the MPs, of course, not even the government president who's often doing it. We are talking about the Law on Reconstruction, I must point out that we Croatian sovereigns supported the current law that is in force because we believe that at that moment he was the best and this law that will be passed because the ruling majority will vote him, I will not say that all the items in him are bad, there is much good. But what I would do, in this debate, pay attention and stress as crucial is what has been done over the past 10 months since the earthquake in Zagreb. What happened? Is Zagreb restored? Are the citizens back in their homes, their apartments? No, they're not. Zagreb, the center of Zagreb, of course there is the blame and the crown crisis, here I am living until I am in my Sibenik, while the sessions continue. The centre of Zagreb today is an excellent tower, here, the Prime Minister is leaving the assembly, he has a wiser, smarter job.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28519	Comrade Zekanovic, let's concentrate on your debate, first you start with topics that are not at all the subject of discussion, now comment on the prime minister, please talk about the topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28520	Dear President of HS, you have the right to warn me and warn me whenever you think of it, you will do so, but then don't have a double archaic towards me and the Prime Minister. For he spoke all things and all things, and ye never warned him. [[I don't have a double archin.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28521	And that's not true. Now I warned him just when he had with you polemics. [[- Oh, yes, it is.]] Yeah. Well, it's amazing how much you're not telling the truth. [[Intruder: Yeah, that's after 100 years.]] I won't use rougher words... [[I think you...]] Just in your case I warned the Prime Minister... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28522	Mr. Jandrokovic, this shooting, let go, give me my time first, so the minute you took me It didn't stop, it's still going [[Intruder: It's been returned, your time has been up.]] Now it's on its way, and let me go, please, don't interrupt me anymore. [[It's now, please speak. /]] So, unfortunately, the Prime Minister is no longer here, he left the assembly and I noticed that, and I'll notice every time he leaves the assembly when I start talking, or when he doesn't answer my question or answer me in a way that doesn't match the MPs in HS, from the height. Blowed and off topic. And he was unfortunately here to answer to us MPs in HS mostly off-the-book. Some hurt him, he doesn't suffer as much as he does because someone has been re-elected to HS and elected to the EU parliament, and that are Croatian sovereigns [[Intruder: Comrade Zekanovic, let's talk about the subject.]] And he'll get hurt another time. [[/Intruder: 'Cause I'm going to have to give you a warning.]] So when we talk about rebuilding,... Someone's talking to me behind my back again. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28523	My colleague Zekanovic, just a little bit. ... Wait a minute. [[I can't hear you. /]] Comrade Zekanovic, I beg you to stop now, stop time [[/Intruder: What is this?]] When the Prime Minister spoke outside the subject, I warned him, I cannot give him a warning under the Rules of Procedure, but I warned him that he was violating the Rules of Procedure and that he did not. [[Intruder: But...]] Now you're here and you're doing the same. So now that I've given you a warning, you'd be automatically Lost the right. [[But that doesn't match the truth, you know that.]] You'll lose. Now I'm giving you a warning with a word-absorbing, if you'd like to take a seat, a fellow Sacic can come. [[But okay, let me talk, come on, let me finish, I've got two minutes left.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28524	My Jandrokovic, you're the king.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28525	Here, fellow Sacic, you can speak now. And what can I do?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28526	So let me get things ready, which you're going to tell me as much as I...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28527	Comrade Zekanovic, please release your colleague Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28528	I'm just gonna get my stuff ready. Did someone call me? It's nobody. Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28529	Here you go, fellow Sacic. You've got seven minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28530	Thank you very much. Honored chairman, president, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I'm sorry that this course of debate is going on about such terriblely serious topics and topics, and certainly I'm expressing a protest on that. As a parliamentary representative elected in the 6th constituency, we have a strong obligation to talk about all the problems, of course, not to say that I am present in this area and that I deeply sympathise with these people, the victims, and at the same time unfortunately I have experience, I come from the epicenter, from Markusevic who is still shaking, but the difference is and we believe and we will do everything and it is all mine, it will be my contribution, that these people from Banovina, not Banovina, from Banovina, do not experience the fate of us from Zagreb and Markushevec and Sublime and that they will be waiting for the restoration of their property to be irrevocable for a year, nothing has happened, except that 70 containers have been brought to us from our dear families in Cucherje, Podslemen and these parts that most bear hill have been seen daily their scattered house in the container with their families because of course they had no money or in the house. No one came to them unfortunately, there was no air conditioning to come to us at that time, I guess we think 5.5 is not enough, there was not that one social, social energy, there was no organization to remove it with our hands, which, thank God in Banovina, was removed. And now, a year goes by, many of my neighbors have sold some other properties, sold, raised loans to rebuild, strengthen their houses, it's orderly size 50 to 60 to 70 thousand kunas to dig the foundation around their house and lift the vertical serkla, or connect the house. That's what I'm telling you because it's life. And now they've invested that money, the question of when under this law, unfortunately, even Minister Horvat will give him a model of how to get that money back. They have when to return, they have bills, they have everything. My neighbor Tihomir, a month ago, went to the ministry in this fund and went to Bandic to return it, had 40,000 kuna, first told him that it was necessary to pay 7,500 elaborats of evaluations to make it as a basis for then eventually returning 60% of what was invested. And of course through the Internet, through 100 items past, a man in years, older, not skilled at it, these are formal barriers, these are unnecessary bureaucratizations to which we have to, and where to talk about my neighbor Mirkec whose house is completely broken down, the man is 78 years old. How's he gonna leave that money and how? We destroyed his house, but he didn't. Nothing's happening. Now, that can't happen on Banovina, and it happens. It happens because it's crucial we have to do everything, what containers, for and container is a problem, 50,000 kuna is a problem, now I've seen it, technich brought it down to my friend, we were there yesterday, all set, 4 beds, sanitary knot, 50,000 kuna, Caritas paid him for it. Is that a problem in this country? There are 250 more containers missing, so far we've invested, how much, 800. So is the problem with 1,500 containers being brought in to cost 50,000 kuna for people to stay there? So it's not our solution that the prime minister said that people go down to Dalmatia, go to Zagreb, go who knows where to go to a warm home, they need to kneel and pray to them, and the state has to teach everyone that they stay in their homeland, in their backyard, yes, that there's that cow food and pig or whatever they have or to keep the space for us. We're not even talking in the background of a whole column of migrants coming there still dear gentlemen, it's El Dorado. No one's talking about it. Slovenians will tell us, and we will have this report, 10,000 people last year brought the Slovenians back from the Slovenian border to Croatia, which passed through Croatia registered. So Banovina is our priority. Certainly, the main and priority task is to keep those people safe, however they are in containers or some sort of temporary accommodation until their house rises up and not every one is destroyed, not every one of their dear friends is destroyed, everything is not destroyed. Three are down, and you know which, which have no vertical cutting, to the ground. Thank God the victims were gone, rested souls to those who died. But there was no respect for the rest of the house. In the strictest of these centers, both Strasnik and Sibiæ below, Glinski Novi Sela, this and even the May Poles have some left. Now you have to do everything you can to make sure the state doesn't burn the money of the Croatian people, to invest, to raise everything. Imagine that happens to Israel. So there would be no doubt at all what the state should do, what citizens should do, only that this situation should be used to create and survive economically, it is okay, but also to open up a story to resuscitate demographic damage, demographic problems, to open up space to other families, however from our eviction or anywhere, and to keep that space, to process and fertilise it, and to really be a Croatian Banovina, not a hot spot for illegal migrants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28531	We're going to the 2nd debate, MOST Representatives' Club and Honorary colleague Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28532	Dear colleagues and colleagues. I started this debate today with a question about the Upper Pillar. When I read all these laws and decisions that apply in this law, I told my colleagues and colleagues that I would ask the question about Gornja Stubica, from the left and from the right, the first thing I asked was, so why do you have the Upper Stubica? Upper Stubica is a place of some 5-6,000 residents in the 3rd constituency headed by the HNS. I don't have anything from Gornja Stubica. To make the matter more cynical, the HNS who heads the Committee on Construction who welcomed this law is the one who should have taken care of Gornja Stubica first. But there is a real problem that is just culminating in this debate and we have been witnessing all week. No one in the public space fought for Sisak. All those who yelled at Sisak, Sisak, only Sisak were actually yelling at me, just me, because they calculated with a pre-election strategy ahead of the local elections. Those who now, without any criteria, shout only Sisak, will tomorrow be trampled by Sisak when political preferences and political moments show them that something else is more personally profitable for them. When I fight for Gornja Stubica, I fight for Sisak on behalf of the club MOST, I fight that there are unique criteria at the level of the Republic of Croatia that will allow all areas in the Republic, depending on their social status, depending on their loss, depending on the criteria of assistance, to be treated equally within the legislative framework as a legislator, as part of this most important body in Croatia where I am currently located. In this sense, Croatia should be considered integratedly, Croatia should be considered as one whole in which each part is equally represented. Unfortunately, in today's dialogue with our prime minister who was first and only and had the privilege and obligation to consider Croatia integratedly, we found that he had no idea what it was made of, we found that he discriminated against certain assisted parts and the worst, to defend this discrimination at the HDZ Club what should be the most sacred, the Homeland War. And if you really cared about the values of the Homeland War and those areas that died in the Homeland War then, ladies and gentlemen, long ago, you would have created conditions in Croatia so that these areas would cease to be supported, and not to get away with the Homeland War at a time when you have no arguments for a sloppy bill of law that is not constitutionally sustainable. And now let me say something about the metrics, to say something about how to solve this problem of assistance, or an equal social criterion that is necessary to resolve in order to accept any draft law. And before I tell the citizens and the citizens of the affected area that they don't have to wait for this bill to start rebuilding so they don't have to worry or it can be an excuse. There are other protocols and laws on the resolution and removal of the consequences of natural disasters that can be used to report damages and to facilitate their temporary disposal. And the law, if he needs to help our citizens, needs to be done right. So, what's the problem, the law discriminates against the prime minister's response has no other than to manipulate patriotism. The solution is, there are several possibilities. The first one is removed from the article. 5. discriminatory provision, where disaster has been declared and 100% reconstruction aided only by assisted areas. What is the problem with such a solution? Yesterday, the resolution minister herself said that the index that determines the assisted areas is missing and that it needs to be improved to do so, the prime minister reiterated it today, and that index is your main criteria for classification and based on it you built your law, even if you say it is missing. And that's the index that continues this confusing public story where it's not clear how Sisak doesn't, and Petrinja does. Another solution, to develop the criteria of an area that is of particular geostrategic interest of the Republic of Croatia, is this abdominal of Croatia, which is the systematic thinking of the Republic of Croatia where you are as a serious and responsible country, we cannot allow us to have places emptied by our own border, especially given that this border is also the EU border next to BiH which has an unresolved political situation. We are in favour of developing such criteria, the problem here right now can be that they need to be systematically considered and that we do not have time to develop such criteria if we want to urgently pass the law, although I repeat it is not a prerequisite for the citizens to now be rehabilitated at home. And the third solution that must be implemented if we want this law to pass in a constitutional court and be just, not only legally sustainable but just, it is this property censorship that must apply to all citizens of weaker property wherever they are in Croatia, wherever they live if they cannot afford their homes must be restored, the Croatian state must find money for them. What we stand for, and what citizens are not currently aware of, because this bill conveys the problem of the past law on the basis of which it has arisen, is that we advocate that citizens who can't afford it really in a 100% amount rebuilding their homes. And what does it mean to restore their homes? Look into the eyes of the citizens in the area and tell them, explain to them if you can make this 100% memory known only to the construction reconstruction, that it is not that they will return to their new homes, that construction reconstruction according to the profession is one small part of the renovation and that they will very likely, when they realize how much it costs the rest of the renovation, that it is about 300, 400 euros on these 150 euros that can cost construction reconstruction per metre square and give up because they can't participate in it, and they don't know and don't have calculations once they get into what the rest of it would cost, so they'll be living in their poor, insecure and lost homes. If the state really wants to help them, they need to restore their homes completely, not just structurally, and they need to be admitted to what construction means. So much for this kind of problem that's focused on the public. So, a unique social criterion for all Croatian citizens if we are to talk about assisted areas we need a clear index and we cannot base them on whether or not there is an arbitrarily declared disaster and a geostrategic criterion that will allow the whole of Croatia including Sisak because of its equal interest. What we need to know is that there are other problems in the law, that we can't now expand the name then into art. 3. say that this law will apply to all Croatia because we only confuse those who read it. It's just like that. 7. which speaks of a specific decision to lay down additional criteria for the exemption from the payment of funds for reconstruction by the owner should be removed whether or not the State will help or will not. Why these articles that talk about maybe they will, and maybe they won't. This bill is insufficient, partial and discriminatory. The seismic improvement is a long-standing strategic process, which is why we presented guidelines on Monday for the Banovina recovery strategy. Why? Because the reconstruction of Banovina is not only demographically abandoned or affected in terms of the depopulation but the most relaxed area in Croatia. A clay town that is the worst in all of Croatia. It is necessary to learn from Zagreb's experience, so far it has only functioned self-renovation, it needs to be facilitated by the state, not prevented. People need to be given vouchers to make their own decisions as much as possible to encourage self-initiative. We have the state playing employers' roles all the time, and it has to make it easier for people. In addition to the criticism of the post-war renewal investigation, transparent solidarity, unification and publication of all donations received is needed. The need to prevent further profits, regularly monitor public procurement systems in the recovery of earthquakes affected areas. Finally, the restoration of Banovina is indeed an example and an opportunity for a new Croatian paradigm in which we will all participate together and in solidarity, but on unique legal and fair criteria that are not discriminatory, which is what we will stand for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28533	Thank you very much. The next club will be the House Movement Representatives' Club on behalf of which the respected representative Vesna Vuceminović will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28534	I would like to thank the Vice-President of the Croatian National Assembly, the honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Last March 22nd, the earthquake struck our capital Zagreb and its surroundings. It's January 20, 2021. It's been almost 10 months. What have we done in the meantime, what has been remedied? We passed the Law on the restoration of buildings damaged by the earthquake in the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje County and Zagreb County some four and a half months ago, indicatively. Lex specialis, for this earthquake and a particular area, although seismologists point out that the entire Republic of Croatia except for the extreme eastern part is a seismically active area. So the earthquake can occur in Šibenik and Varazdin and as we saw, on December 29th last year, in Sisak, Petrinja and Banovina with the epicenter in Strasnik. But back to the chronology of events. What happened in the meantime, except that we passed the law, formed a fund, appointed a director, the public was entertained at the height of his salary, new employment goes in anyway too large and too expensive a state administration, and no sign of a vote from the renovation. Not even public purpose buildings are being restored, so here, on Monday, the second semester of schools began, and parents warn that they fear for the safety of their children because the streets are not safe because of damaged buildings and so to speak, no chimney in these four and a half months has been repaired unless the tenants or residents of damaged buildings have self-initiatedly repaired it. Who was active in the meantime, as usual, bureaucracy. We got sublaws that further complicated everything. The application shall require, no less than 90 documents. Minister Horvat says, I quote, those requirements that will not be completed, and the documentation is in the registers of the state institutions, officials of the Ministry of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property will come out on their own because they are already in digital or digitalised form today. So why are you looking for them when you already have them? What's it for and what's the use of these 90 documents if we already have everything digitized and what's the reason for that request, except I'd dare say, harassing our citizens who are already frustrated and living in some temporary accommodation from, here, 10 months. In addition, it is said that the request can be submitted via the Internet. So, all those who were on the ground in Banovina, and I was, I think, let's say, Grandma Gjurji of Sibić doesn't mean anything at all because she didn't use the Internet before the earthquake, and her house was leveled to the ground. Otherwise, one of those houses that was restored after the great Serbian aggression. During the whole process, sublaws have introduced public notebooks which are otherwise not in the law, additional elaborates, etc. Now, I'm wondering, how are the people of Banovina going to find those 90 documents? All of us who were in Petrinja, we saw that the center of Petrinja was destroyed. They are mainly in the centre and located institutions that should issue these 90 documents. I don't see any sense of it all, except that life is getting worse for our residents, whether they live in Banovina, Petrinja, Sisak or Chucherje, where the inhabitants of Zagreb have been living in containers for 10 months since the earthquake. Experts have already pointed out that it is the same inconclusive, mainly in the case of minor damage to residential buildings and residential buildings with multiple tenants. The earthquake that struck Zagreb, in fact, only revealed how much our capital was devastated and put an end to it. On Banovina, the earthquake also revealed certain irregularities that were apparently in the postwar reconstruction. The houses that were supposed to endure and far more devastating earthquakes collapsed like card towers, no vertical serclains reportedly by, the law at the time shouldn't have been, which I clearly doubted, and we heard yesterday that there were supposed to be 60 such objects. Less than 2%, not all objects have been examined yet, but I believe that such a number of objects are, however, a reason more to explore it in detail. The argument that it's less than 2% doesn't stand, so I'm just asking you, let's say you go into surgery and you come to a surgeon who tells you that less than 2%, between 1 and 2% of patients don't survive surgery, would you go to him for surgery? So that argument definitely doesn't stand. Funding is a story to yourself. This is what we in the Homeland Movement also warned about when the law was passed, 42 billion kuna is a direct financial damage from the earthquake that hit Zagreb. During the debate, Minister Obuljen Koržinek pointed out that the assessment is still in place and will only later be withdrawn and the total amount must be added to the amount for Banovina, Petrinja, Sisak which needs to be determined because the situation on the ground is changing from day to day because of strong seismic activity so that the housing that had a green and yellow label due to subsequent earthquakes gets a new label that is in the worse category. Due to all the above and the apparent slowness of the Homeland Movement institutions, it proposes a different approach that would speed up the whole process and encourage what is equally important rational spending of funds. It is known that no one else's money spends rationally, and mainly not our state bureaucracy. The state has remained consistent with the original intention of taking over most of the burden on itself and we support it, but unlike the concepts they suggest by ruling and based on everything we've seen on the ground, we suggest that financial resources be made known directly to the victims of the earthquake. The Banovina area had been undeveloped and somehow forgotten before the earthquake. To insist on a complicated 90 document procedure is not in line with the solidarity that is necessary in these cases. Moreover, the state itself has no money, so the syntagm of state money is often used, but it is always the only and only taxpayers' money regardless of whether it comes from the RS budget or from the EU. This is how we propose to avoid the food chain that is on Banovina the cause of the destroyed objects from post-war reconstruction as well as similar contractors. What it looks like when we have similar contractors we saw last week on the example of the mayor of Požega Puljasic who has a list of performers who must pass the contest. Besides, nothing spectacular would happen because the market would do its part anyway. Most people damaged in the Banovina earthquake want to rebuild their homes as soon as possible and the demand for the services of designers, contractors and surveillance engineers would be huge anyway. Controling the spending of funds today at this digital time would also not be a problem for us, these resources could only be used for the purpose of restoring construction facilities that can be easily controlled. This model also leaves complete freedom for each individual to restore a residential facility in a way that is acceptable to him and in accordance with the applicable legal regulations. It has already started a debate on house installations, imports from other countries, type houses, and in fact everything that people affected by the earthquake are not interested in. They just want a roof over their heads and a warm home as soon as possible because they now live in impromptu tents, workshops, six-square auxiliary facilities, containers, camp homes that can't be closed, and out there is minus four, and at night and more. We had a snow idyll last week that brought joy to the children, but not to the children in the Strasnik where he was an epicenter, who sleep in an impromptu tent. Our proposal has yet another important component, which is a maximum reduction in corruption space. What the competent ministries and units of local self-government should do is repair damage on buildings of public purpose and infrastructure because the roads were only a few meters wide before the earthquake to the place in Banovina. If we're renovating Banovina, we'll do it right this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28535	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the Honorable Minister Darko Horvat will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28536	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Parliamentarians. The specific weight of the false and incorrect information you gave today is heavier than gold. I ask you and kindly invite you to return here for a pay phone and explain to the public which of these nine requests requires 90 contributions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28537	The next club of representatives will be the SDSS on behalf of which the respected representative Milorad Pupovac will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28538	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. My colleagues and colleagues. The debate on this law as well as the whole issue of reconstruction and revitalisation of Bania should be a reason to unite us in thinking as quickly as possible and how it is possible to ensure effective development that we haven't had in that space for years and decades. All the other debates we've heard, which are not intended for that kind of competition, are as harmful as the earthquake, they're catastrophic. And no matter how much we can get along or disagree, but if we have that goal, then we act in the direction of that same goal. A debate that speaks about what the SDP once, what HDZ once missed, what the SDP missed, what the Bridge did not do in the coalition was with HDZ or I don't know which other today is pointless and irresponsible, except for specific cases. And I don't want to talk about it anymore. I want to talk about the law itself. It seemed that Sisak's question would be the main problem of this law, but fortunately, as we've heard, it's not and it won't be. That means we have ears for each other, and I'm going to leave the rest to fellow senior partners in our coalition, colleagues from HDZ who I'm sure will say what will be an acceptable model for everyone. Why? So because Sisak-Moslavina County is one of the most underdeveloped, because Sisak is also one of the most beautiful cities in Croatia, partly by war, part of deindustry, part of the depopulation. Three years ago. We've heard that 3,000 people have left Sisak in just a few years, now we hear that the figure has already reached 6,000. About the revenues of the town of Sisak, I will just say so much and compare it with Zagreb or any other in the area simply makes no sense. If there is any obstacle that is legal or constitutional, I'm sure the government will find an adequate solution to that. Sisak needs support to be the engine again as it was during the golden period of Baniska politics and the Banije development concept with iron, refinery and Gavrlovic in Petrinja. I want to say something that's not so much in the law, which is time and speed. We, if we want people to stop leaving this area because of fear, because of extremely difficult conditions, I have heard that recently from people who are activists on the ground with whom we work as the Serbian National Council, that representatives of animal rights come and report people because they keep dogs on the chain or because their cows are dirty because they are out on the pasture. The inspectors are coming, the cops are coming, the different people are coming. Those grandmothers who have dogs keep their house safe. To change that, we need a lot of time, but protecting animal rights because of the fact that we can abolish the fundamental right of people to be at home and at home and to feel minimally safe and to preserve that cattle is excessive dogmatism in the application of it. Otherwise, I am absolutely for the protection of rights, and I urge these people to stop doing it now. The other thing I'm trying to say is, it's rock and speed. Mr. Minister, it is extremely important to team up with everything that is possible from how and how to build a house, with which means, with which machinery and with which people and with which reconstruction is carried out as soon as possible. People out there don't have time to wait. Their life is 30 years old anyway. on hold, and if we don't make sure that the reconstruction is spotless and we don't send such a message, we won't do anything. We'll pass the law, but we have to send that message every day. The other thing I'm trying to say is the question of how it's going to be restored. Will only family houses be covered or will economic facilities be covered? This is essential for people who are engaged in agriculture and live in rural areas, as is important for state institutions and public institutions in cities. If we restore a man's house, and we don't rebuild his economic buildings, we haven't done anything. So I ask that it be made clear because it is the specificity of this area. I'll add to that, now shoppers and buyers are buying a cow, three weeks ago for 400 euros, today as we hear and see in the media for 40 EUR. And as a problem is one of our colleagues because of the way he used the available house these people are to me a terrible problem. Such people would be imprisoned, people like that would be deprived of the right to move through that space, and that could be done by the state if the state took care of the cattle of people who couldn't care for themselves. That's why I'm asking Mr. Minister to arrange for your colleague from the ministry, the Minister of Agriculture to take care of and buy those cattle and return them later. These people deserve it and the state is bound to do it in that sense. I also want to say the issue of budgeting, not only the Republic of Croatia's budget will be sufficient, nor will EU funds. At first, the solidarity of citizens who rushed to help and helped with the first days should be enhanced by the solidarity of our municipalities and cities, the solidarity of our companies and companies, and therefore I call on the club presidents here to commit that our party colleagues in municipal councils, city councils and county councils will raise their hands for it. Yes, as it stands out for Vukovar to now stand out for a certain period in a certain percentage per municipality and city and county for the reconstruction of the area of Bania. The state won't have enough, and it won't be a big asset. A hundred million kunas as much as could be provided without trouble would be a great help in rebuilding. In the end, there's something else I want to say. All that, even if it's the most successful, if there's no development program to track it tomorrow, it won't mean anything. Not even the most beautiful wooden house or any other house will keep people if we don't go into the development program. We're just going to take an example of Clay. Until '61. There were only bricks and sawmills in the clay. Not one kilometer of asphalt, not one metre of public water and sewerage, 28% illiterate, 60 villages in the area without electricity, today Glin is approximately at the level of the sawmill, without the bricks and so is the entire area of Bania. Every fifth house is located in Clay, no building in Clay that's had central heating since '95. No central heating. Our moral obligation for our colleague and colleagues is to change it everywhere, from Sisak, Kostajnica, Dubice, Sunja, Majura, Dvora, Kukuruzara and finally Gline and other places that have also died towards Lekenik, that is our obligation. Therefore, the SDSS Representatives Club will call first on its coalition partners to urgently propose the concept of a solution to the development of the Bania area, a new development concept that area needs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28539	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative of Peja Grbin will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28540	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Let me first talk about one concept at the beginning of this debate, which is the concept of a reconstruction that we brought together with a broad consensus a few months ago and then we, and I will repeat this and now, have made it clear that this concept of reconstruction is not good, it is not ideal, that this concept of renewal in the case of Zagreb is only working to restore the situation to the way it was before the earthquake, so let's get back to the status quo. We talked about not raising the degree of construction reconstruction to the maximum available today in accordance with technical possibilities, not including the issue of energy recovery, not to mention the development and reflection of the City of Zagreb. And as prominent as this was in the case of the City of Zagreb, such concept is even more important in the case of Sisak-Moslavina County. Why? Because this area is far more underdeveloped than the City of Zagreb and it is a fact, far, far more underdeveloped. And precisely because of this underdevelopment, we have to look at this renewal that we are discussing today exclusively and only as the first ad hoc step that will help people in what is most important to them right now, which is to get a roof over their heads. But we can't stop here, we have to start with this. I will pull a parallel with another country far more developed and richer than Croatia, New Zealand, which was hit 10 years ago by a series of earthquakes in a region called Canterbury, they have, within weeks, two weeks of the earthquake, passed the first law defining what we are discussing here, and what has been waiting for a good six months in Zagreb, they have done it in a few weeks, and it has been the restoration and insurance of roofs over people. However, they did not stop there, although New Zealand is far richer and more developed than Croatia within a year brought a programme of revitalisation of the region to allow it to survive and breathe full lungs because after each disaster there is an exodus, an exodus that is on the one hand connected to the loss of everything, and on the other hand that is related to fear. And every one who was shaken at least once, it was Zagreb, it was a petri dish that knew what fear it was. Indeed, at last week's session, the government made a decision to implement such a programme, but the decision is not sufficient. Why? It has none of the only deadlines, except for a five-day appointment of members of the commission to deal with the revitalisation. This is not enough, we need concrete deadlines when the programme will see the light of day, when the programme will be put into public debate and allow units of local self-government in the area of Bania to make their remarks and to make the programme truly life-threatening and as necessary for people from the area affected by the earthquake to be able to live because the reconstruction we are talking about today, which we discussed at the 9th month when the question of Zagreb was only the insurance of the roof over the head, only the insurance of the roof over the head. Yes, today we need to bring something like this, perhaps we are late, because this earthquake was even more devastating than the one in Zagreb because it hit an end that is more underdeveloped than the City of Zagreb, but we cannot stop here. Now let me talk about this law to address his biggest problem, and that's the issue of inequality. I would like to remind you that within the EU, the Republic of Croatia supports the principles of cohesion policy based on which less developed Member States achieve assistance for development and equality of development. And that Croatia advocates in the EU must be the principle that we will be guided and when we pass such a law. Supported areas, especially those of Sisak-Moslavina County, must be in an equal position. Someone can't get 100%, and the other can't. The SDP submitted two amendments, two amendments, one where we put Krapina-Zagorian County, the other without. Why? Well, we don't have enough hands, we don't have enough support in the Parliament to make our own decisions, so you're the government. We have offered you alternatives, but we do not insist that it be any of our amendments. If the government proposes an appropriate amendment or a ruling majority to address the problem we are talking about, we will be happy because this is not about collecting political points but about ensuring that people in the Sisak-Moslavina County get what they have the right to gain, and that is the opportunity for a normal life, just that and nothing more. The opportunity for a normal life, and in this area, especially in Sisak, will not be possible without State intervention, because that end, Sisak-Moslavina County has no means like the City of Zagreb when we talk about the power of JLS, there are none, there are none. And I'd like to warn you of an important, very important item, Mr. Secretary. The classification Regulation entered into force on 1.1.2018. According to the Regional Development Act, the Commission shall, in accordance with Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, adopt implementing acts in accordance with the law on regional development in accordance with Article 2 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 33rd and 34th of that law shall be passed on a period of 3rd years. That deadline expired in 1.1 this year. We should have brought in a new evaluation and a new classification that will take into account the current situation. So you can't appeal to a regulation that expired a few weeks ago, you can't. Please implement what is your legal obligation and ensure that the evaluation and classification of JLS from the Sisak-Moslavina County is carried out in accordance with the law and in accordance with the current situation and ensure that all units from that area including the particular city of Sisak in which most of the inhabitants of the region live, where the largest number of buildings affected by the earthquake get the same rights as others, only that, nothing more. Just that and nothing else. Let me look back on other problems that my colleagues and colleagues will discuss more in individual discussions. First, the reconstruction of Zagreb is late, late, does not happen what we expected, what we were looking for, what we wanted to happen with the Law on Reconstruction, late. We need an analysis as needed over a month or two and a change of laws to ensure that the renewal begins. Yesterday I was talking about people living in containers in Zagreb who now have huge power differences, huge wars. As you provided assistance for the people of Banija the day before yesterday, so it is necessary for those living in containers in Zagreb, but that is not enough. My colleagues and colleagues before me talked about the documentation that was needed, extensively, I'll talk more about it in an individual debate, but now I want to turn my attention to two problems. The first is legalisation, numerous properties affected by the earthquake are not covered by legalisation because their owners did not ask for it. Under normal circumstances, I wouldn't suggest this, but today I have to because these people are severely damaged by an earthquake and without this they won't be able to participate in the restoration, we have proposed an amendment to the Law on Legalisation to extend the deadline for those buildings damaged by an earthquake only for buildings damaged by an earthquake until 30.6. If you look at the law, you will see there that the documentation required says that the renewal will only be possible where the legalisation has been carried out or at least the application for legalisation has been filed. Where he's not, there's no restoration. So I'm asking you to consider this. The SDP today referred in the procedure a concrete bill to extend the deadline for those affected by the earthquake to 30.6. And secondly, the issue of issuing documents and based on this property law. If you look at the patterns, almost everyone's looking for the owner's list. Unfortunately, property legal relations in Sisak-Moslavina County and the City of Zagreb are not resolved. If we're going to look for resolved ownership relations, then we won't be able to start rebuilding. For example, the most affected areas of the City of Zagreb, the northern subsljeme, are covered by new measurements that have not led people to receive orderly ownership papers until today. In the area of Sisak-Moslavina County we have more persons. We also have the consequences of war on certain issues. If we're tied to property legal relations, then we won't be able to do it, and that's why I'm calling you and I'm sorry, I know my time is running out, just one more sentence. I call upon you to apply the criteria of the Law on Legalization.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28541	I'd ask you to bring the end because you've already gone too far.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28542	Here, let's just apply the criteria of the Law on Legalization where we've legalized it now, and we've been doing property relations later. Thank you, and I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28543	Please hold on, hold on, because if you take 20 seconds, then someone else will ask for the same amount or 30, etc. And it's falling into our water, isn't it? Now, on behalf of the promoter, the Honorable Minister Darko Horvat will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28544	Thank you, Vice President. So, obviously, I have to remove the doubt from doubt, so I'm reading clearly and I hope it'll be understandable. The funds for the construction reconstruction of family houses, business, housing and multi-state buildings, and the construction of replacement family houses, now that you don't type on your mobile, you'd probably remember what I read, I hope I explained. The second thing is, it's a question of colleagues from the SDP Club. Do you even know that you have submitted a proposal to amend and supplement the law? You don't need to look for phones now, I'm sure you don't know, but your president knows. So in these amendments and additions respected by the Croatian public, no one is freed 100% of anything, it is the original SDP proposal. Then we picked up our mind compensation, and then there were two club members, one of which just wants to get two counties up, the other wants the third counties up, and then we came back to a little bit more sense, so we said let's go to the concept from the original proposal of change and complemented by the amendment. So, I believe that your club's legal experts are doing just that because you might have learned it in college but I kind of think it's not working that way and I can just ask if you amendments are submitted to our amendment and supplementation proposal or to your proposal for an amendment and supplement? Once we find out, we can talk further.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28545	Here you are, Minister. We've got more replicas. He's the first respected representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28546	Dear Minister, I was hoping this debate would go in the direction that you would answer the questions that matter to the citizens but whether you are unable or not, I leave it. But what fascinates me is your complete inability to read the very simple text that we have proposed. The SDP's bill of law went with another concept, the concept of census-lifting, a concept of progressiveness, which would provide far greater circle of citizens not only from Sisak-Moslavina County but from all earthquakes of affected areas for co-financing at progressive rates. Everything, 5%, 10%, 15% or 20%. You, in your bill of law, didn't cover it, but you told the assisted areas 100%. But that's where you made the discrimination. We offer you a respected Mr. Minister, more concepts. The decision is not made by the opposition, the decision is made by the government. Whatever concept you choose, we'll... I'll take it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28547	Thank you very much, the answer of the esteemed Minister Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28548	So, honourable parliamentary representative, yesterday you said one fifteen outs of the fact "it's not clear to me". You see how you can determine the material and explain everything to yourself. It's all clear to you, we just disagree. And that's a fact to be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28549	The next replica is respected MPs Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28550	Dear Minister Horvat, we all agree that it is important for citizens to trust in the institutions of this country and have a sense of security for themselves and their property. So I ask you, can the Government guarantee it and what is your concept since the earthquake affected the areas, we get information that temporary housing care is done in a verse rather than in a plan? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28551	Your Honor, Minister Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28552	Thank you, esteemed Parliamentarians for this matter. So, the priorities of temporary housing and delivery of mobile housing units n terrain work together, the Civil Protection Staff and representatives of the local and regional self-government unit but today, like me, you can't ban anyone in a private arrangement or buy a similar or the same housing unit or someone wants to donate it to him. There are cases like that on the ground.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28553	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28554	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Minister Horvat, I have a very, very specific question. With this amendment and the addition, you have defined an exception to the provision of an article. 25, it is about removing buildings, where you say that a destroyed family house and another destroyed building whose remains directly threaten the safety or health of people are removed by the basis of a decision by an authorised person in accordance with a special regulation governing civil protection and in accordance with the draft assessment of the existing state of construction. I'm interested in a specific case, who's ordering the elaborate and who's paying for it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28555	Your Honor, Minister Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28556	Thank you, dear Parliamentarian. It is not true that your finding that the new regulation or that the new elaborate is based on a summary procedure that can remove or make a decision to remove a building that threatens human health and lives, is the subject of the first programme of measures. This is the subject of a special rule that you simply did not read, so in this special regulation we defined what is necessary and minimally necessary for you to give, through the rapid design of such a laboratory, the professional basis of a statisticist-builder and then the Civil Protection Staff that has the right to do so under the Civil Protection System Act, a decision and we intervene. Where there will be no consent from the owner, there will be a decision of a construction inspection. Very clear, very detailed If someone didn't, they could have the same situation... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28557	Thank you, thank you Minister, the next replica of respected representatives of Vesna Vucilović.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28558	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, I won't look back on this categorization of Parliamentarians which I would best describe in terms of good, bad, because it's beneath every level of debate and communication in this Visko home but I'm going to look back on a simple mathematical operation called multiplication. So, on the pages of your ministry you run, it says that nine forms should be attached upon request. Each form should be accompanied by an average of 10 documents. I was taught at school that 9 times 10, 90. You can add it up, it'll take a little bit longer, and you can multiply, and you'll get to the same number as me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28559	Your Honor, Minister Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28560	Thank you very much. In one small act with you, I can agree with you as a politician, as a parliamentary representative or a parliamentary representative who has been elected by the votes of the Croatian people, you should not do misinformation or spread disinformation to those same people who chose you. So, number 90 with your real and imaginary computer operations is really imaginary because in just one little detail you've mixed up pots or pears and apples. There is a big difference in the word ‘i’ or ‘or’. I am plastically trying to explain that the document based on the rights of construction in Croatian history has been called in five or six different ways. Well, you don't think that whether you're a professional or not, that we're looking for all five or six documents that are called that?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28561	The next replica is the respected representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28562	Dear Minister, I have a question for the citizens who have restored their homes on their own. We've heard from earlier statements that, in fact, these people can hardly get that money back. Even more so, if they want that money back, they should give money to the lab. Have you thought about making it easier for them in some way to get that money or simply be free of charge for them? That's the first question. And the second question, here, I invite you to look together at Form 2 on the Ministry's pages and try to count the documents needed to contribute. These documents are not the same documents so they have a different name and you'll see that we'll get to the number over 80. So for one request, here, we can count together, it's open, let's look at that pattern together, there's over 80 documents to be attached. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28563	Thank you very much. The answer of the Honorable Minister Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28564	Thank you, Your Honor, MP. I'm going to sit down with you, and we're going to go through your 80 papers, and hopefully I'll at least give you a partial understanding of that figure, and what's the fact, so if you're looking for a right, you're applying. If the State gives it to you, it gives it to you through administrative or irregular procedure by solution or decision. I hope that by consensus in the legal profession, it's a fundamental rule. So, all those who have properly supervised authorised engineers, re-scheduled and made emergency interventions, have participated in more than 40 million kunas of recognised requests and paid aid. The way it was suggested to build it here today, build it yourself without calculation, without budget, and then ask the state to pay with taxpayers' budget money, so that for 20 years, we experience what we are experiencing in some parts of Croatia, this government will simply not allow itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28565	Thank you very much, the next replica is the esteemed representative of Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28566	Dear Minister, if I understand correctly, you are calling the SDP here to write the law and to refer to the procedure of the Rehabilitation Act on January 4th while you were still thinking about whether or not you would declare a disaster in Bania. We sat down and wrote the law. Since our law was put on the agenda as the 55th item of the agenda, which means that the HDZ felt that there were 54 points more important than the renovation in Croatia and that in the meantime you woke up from a deep bear's sleep, realized that you still needed to get into a little higher speed and came with your law, we respond to your laws to the amendments because our next year will come on the agenda. But it doesn't matter what it says in our law or yours, it's important that we defend in one and the other the same principle, that all people in Bania are helped equally, and that there is no discrimination, regardless of the model, all the same and all of you know it very well, and don't attack the representatives here for wanting to help.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28567	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Minister Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28568	Here are some of your constructive criticisms I can accept, but while you were sitting there writing the law, I was in Petrinja, Clay and Sisko, but my colleagues were writing the law. And the law came to Parliament on the 14th, 15th or 16th day after certain moments had taken place. And because of that, and you understand that because you admitted it through the debate, we have an art. 7. perhaps an unspeakable sentence that says “Government will later. ” The government will later, when we establish damage and see damage to scales on agricultural facilities, on economic facilities, add damage to housing, then we will be able to construct an application to the Solidarity Fund, ask the European Commission to refund at least one part of our costs or create a perspective for an organised decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28569	The next replica is the respected representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28570	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, since I have not received a reply from Prime Minister Plenkovic, a concrete answer to that first part of the question, then I will beg you, you will probably have a better insight into the situation on the ground. So, with regard to health institutions in Sisak-Moslavina County owned by the county, 9 of them, health homes Sisak, Kutina, Petrinja, Sisak, Popovaca hospitals, Institute of Public Health, Institute of Emergency Medicine, Pharmacy and Topusko Hospital. What's the extent of the damage, what's the situation with them? What categories are they in? At what rate will institutions be restored, in what order and how will funding go? Thank you, please, specifically.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28571	The answer of the Honorable Minister Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28572	Here's my thanks for the specific and constructive question. Therefore, the same rules have been fully identical since the start, in full recovery, the funds needed to finance the full recovery must be provided by owners or founders. If there is no fiscal capacity at the level of Sisak-Moslavina County to do so with its original revenues, the state will jump in and all these facilities will be renovated without any priority whether the hospital is located in Krapina-Zagorje County, Zagreb County, Sisak-Moslavinačka, Karlovačka or on the territory of the city of Zagreb. Therefore, at this point, it is working hastily to adapt the public call to both the Sisak-Moslavina area and the region of Karlovac County. There is no reason for us to eskicipate anything or create other criteria that will completely restore schools, cultural goods or health institutions in any of these 5 units of local or regional self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28573	Thank you very much, Minister. Now let's move on. The next Club of Representatives is that of HSLS and Reformers. You Ministers back to your post, and on behalf of that club will speak the esteemed representative Dario Hrebak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28574	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Today we are talking about the Earthquake Rehabilitation Act, and we are primarily relying on Sisak-Moslavina County, and somehow I have to express my skepticism that I am at some point and disappointed because it is evident that the campaign for local elections has started. And what I don't want to do is, I don't want the whole whole debate to turn into a debate today about it, about showing, proving certain maybe even candidates who are here together with us, our colleagues and colleagues, and that right now on this topic, an extremely important law that we're going to discuss and talk about trying and some of our personal ambitions to fulfill through a debate in this House of Higher Education that I think is extremely important and extremely important to me. We're talking a lot today about a concrete law, and I can't help thinking that we've talked a lot equally about the City of Zagreb. I love the city of Zagreb and Zagreb is the capital of Croatia, Zagreb is extremely important for Croatia. But today we are talking specifically about the law relating to the inhabitants of Sisak-Moslavina County. What saddens me can say that I may have succumbed to this one knowledge that we may have needed an earthquake which is unfortunate to learn in what conditions people in the area of Glina, in the area of Petrinja live especially in those villages and those terrible images that we have all seen through Croatian media. So that's where someone forgot about these people for the last 20 years. When we saw what houses they lived in, how those houses were restored. So they're restored, but to what extent, in what conditions, in which circumstances, the economy in these places. So I'm asking myself, how are we going to rebuild it all again? Today, everyone is talking about how each house needs to be restored, that every man should have a roof over his head. You should. First thing we need to do is make sure that every man at this point has a house, or roof over his head. However, I will open one topic which this law does not talk about, about the strategy of the whole of this renewal, something that is not opportunised to speak in the Croatian public and, of course, we are in three months before the local elections, so it is not very smart. However, I will open the subject. In fact, when we talk about restoring this area, we should say one important thing that the profession emphasized, so the society of architects, the society of engineers. So, all those who know how. The question is whether or not we should send architects there to engineers or should we send people who are demographics, who are planners, who are urbanists. Because what it means to us is that if we rebuild every house in villages and villages, we make it a beautiful house where in 10, 15 or 20 years, because of the lack of work, we will have villages and villages that will turn into houses of ghosts. Do we perhaps need to consider together in agreement and with the population, with the local community, to concentrate these settlements? Because what it's worth to you if you do ten houses and ten houses in the May Poles, who will bring them the basic communal infrastructure 21. A century? Water? The road? Gas? Drainage? So, all that, lighting. Well, we just saw in this earthquake that some places, some villages didn't have public lighting. So, what do we really want to achieve? Now do we just want to rebuild people or do we want to enter into a whole real strategy of how we're going to give that end a chance to develop again? We certainly will not be able to achieve this if we are to renew according to the current criteria that each man will have his own house in any part of it, in the remote part of the very two cities to be restored. I know it's hard, I know it's hard to impose as a debate because nobody's gonna talk about it. But the profession clearly said to concentrate the dispersed area in one place, to build people apartments, to build people a house that would have a decent 21st century infrastructure because there's a lot of mayors here. We all know how many unclassified roads we have, how many specific places it takes just ten million kunas to get five houses into the basic communal infrastructure. So we're also talking constructively, we're only talking about restoration. I hope this restoration will include constructiveness, so that we don't just make it nice on the outside, and in the end God won't let the earthquake happen again in 10 or 15 years, we'll have the same situation again. What I would also like to emphasise, which is economic revitalization. There's something we need to do urgently, do urgently to give these people a chance to show them that there's hope, that they can expect something. I am deeply concerned with the information I have recently heard that over 1,000 people have already checked out their residences in the area of earthquakes affected. And what we need to think about is, let's say, specifically, what I personally think could happen very quickly with some appropriate funding, it's a highway. 20 kilometers left to finish the highway to the city of Sisak. It's an open door for these people, I know personally from my city how important it is for me to get to Bjelovar on the highway. So, 12 km to Bjelovar's rest. I know how much this will contribute to development and industrial areas and new jobs. So, highways mean the future of that neighborhood, especially since this particular highway, according to my information, should end up exactly halfway between the Petrina city of Sisak. Sisak has already started gravitating towards the city of Zagreb. Let us be a real city Zagreb is a large gravity area, but it also offers an opportunity for these people from this area that they may be able to travel on the route Zagreb-Petrinja, Zagreb-Glina and live in their Glina, live in Petrinja, we cannot all live in the City of Zagreb. So it's a great chance to say just across the highway open space to start building out there zones and start creating jobs. It's about schools and kindergartens. So didn't we talk about the National Recovery and Resistance Plan that should reach Croatia's 45 billion kuna in the next 2nd year?? I personally know that there are 200 building permits for 200 schools because it is our goal and interest all of us, in the program of these Governments of the Republic of Croatia to build so many schools that Croatian children can be given one shift course, to raise the standard in education. The kindergartens also, so there is now an opportunity to solve that part of the problem through European funds. And lastly, I would say and mention what was said today. HSLS and our club advocates absolute access to all three affected sites, Sisak, Glina, Petrinja, there is no difference. All the people living there who are depressed, who have lost their assets, who have lost some of their loved ones, must have the same approach to all residents, as much as it was a big financial cake because I am aware that this will lead to a total of these billions of kunas, but there will always be those political adventurers who may even report this law to the Constitutional Court, may fall precisely because of that and what we did then, we have lost all the time we need to give people hope that they will soon have roofs over their heads. It is also necessary to consider tax cuts, to give certain tax exemptions for these parts, that would be something that I think could be done very quickly, and also how many people in the area of Gline, from the area of Petrinja, in general, contribute to the total fiscal cash register because we all know how much wages there are and how much income tax is actually paid from these regions, so we should think about it as well. We have to cut red tape, we have to reduce these procedures, there's a lot of things already said about it, but what's most important we have to do through this law, through these discussions where we're taking part today, we have to send a message of hope and perspective to people so that people simply don't check out their residences, to stay, to stay for one more time, to endure, and what's most important to us from this high home, we have to send strong support, and I am therefore convinced that the ruling majority will also accept all the good proposals, all the good amendments, to do what's best for HDZ, SDP, HNS or HSLS or some other parties, it's in the interest of the citizens who live there, they look at us, they look at today and this debate today, and they are the ones who expect concrete help to make everything that's best of this law, and that the more amendments we accept from the opposition, from the independents that we've got to be better at all of all of those who have a good, which have to have a good at all. Here's a thank you, and hopefully we'll get some of these suggestions on which our club insists that we accept them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28575	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives will be that of the CNS and independent representatives on behalf of whom the respected representative Predrag Štromar will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28576	Thank you very much, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Surely we are witnessing a difficult situation, all whose houses are torn down or devastated in a way that cannot be in them must have some other alternative roof over their heads. That must be our goal, but also our priority. And we can say, again, that Croatia has shown a great and good heart again, and it is hard to find a word to thank all those volunteers who immediately hired help on the first day, from chefs, from statists, from all those who carried food and drink to people who had died, thanks to the military, police, the red cross, to everyone who helped. I would also like to talk to the statisticians and thank the statisticians, and ask them that if possible today or at the latest tomorrow they visit villages in the municipality of Sunja, such as Petrinci, Mala Paukova, Brđani Roada, Vukosevic, Severovac. Why? Because there will certainly be red stickers there, it is dangerous to live in these houses, not living people in those houses, but in order to get help prepared, containers, trailers, they must have a red label, without a red label, none of the companies, the economy will donate because in that case there is no VAT refund, and it must be known who they donate to, and I think it's okay to know, but I ask that those houses that are loosed, shaken or broken to go around and get those red stickers first. And speaking of this situation, thank you very much to selfless donors, millions and millions have been collected in kunas, in EUR, but also tons and tons of food, hundreds and hundreds of heaters have been solved, helping these people because the state cannot have 1502 thousand containers in stock provided for such cases, but here are the good people, there are always them and they should be thanked. People in Petrinja, Sisak, Clay, Sunja and surrounding places must not be left alone. But as well as not to be left alone in Zagreb, in Zagorje, all those who need real help from us and the help of the state. Resuscitation must be urgent, but also high-quality and transparent. Every kuna for restoration must be visible to everyone in real time. I hope that the Ministry and the Fund and the Central Office are working intensively on it and that we will be able to know at any moment about any kuna in which it has been invested or spent. And then in five, ten, or twenty years, we're gathering information on who was rebuilding a house, why the house was not well renovated. Well, then let's say we reported everything to the DORH and then there's no record of it. And there's no sign-up in DORH. We have to, now we have experience, we know how to work, we have tools, we have digitization, we have the ability to monitor all processes. Unfortunately, these days, we're mostly discussing how much someone will pay as a percentage. The solution is that everyone pays the same thing and that all obligations are paid in the same places, in the same municipalities, in the same cities in the same way. 'Cause imagine Imagine one street between Sisak and Clay and there the left side of Sisak, the right is Glina, and now these on the right will have to pay 20% of all costs in recovery, and those on the left will not. [[Intruder Rainer: Wait a minute. Gentlemen and Mr. Secretary, let's leave it for a break. Okay? Please!]] These people's salaries are the same, they have the same conditions, they have the same chance of finding a good job, they have the same places where they go to school. HNS and independents have prepared an amendment where we are proposing, but not only for Sisak, Glina, Petrinja, Sunja, but also for the City of Zagreb and Gornja Stubica and for all those who died in the earthquake in the third month last year. And then we are dealing with these discussions, not with the debate in which the development of the economy in that part will go, how in general this beautiful part of the Republic will develop and the spatial and economic but also how not only to keep these people there, but that as many people as possible want to get there. Earlier on, a colleague named Hrebak said the same thing when the other roads of communication were made as soon as possible, if communication were then it would not look like 400 km from the capital and the richest city in Croatia, but it would look as beautiful as it should be 50 to 200 km from the city of Zagreb. We do not discuss what kind of houses they will eventually receive, and what kind of houses we will build for people whose houses are torn down or devastated so that they cannot live in them. The law says they will be and the state will pay them from 55, 70 and 85 square meters. Will it be typical? If it's going to be tip-top, does anyone work on what it's going to look like? I know because I'm in communication with architects and builders. They're preparing to look like those houses without devastation again, so they won't be the containers. I accept containers at the moment, temporarily. But once that house is rehabilitated, these buildings must look also partly traditional and fit into that area and be functional. Of course the current must be everywhere, the water must be everywhere, the infrastructure must be made. I am sure and believe that according to the payments we have, according to the European Commission, which has provided us with large funds that money is not a problem here, should not be a problem and will not be a problem. We just need to organize ourselves well and qualityly and listen to the profession, temporarily accommodate all people, even if even a few weeks longer the debate on what Bania will look like. Let it last, but let for a year, two look beautiful and develop in a way and that we from other parts of Croatia have a desire and will to go around that end. And not that I was in this neighborhood right now because there was a tragedy, a disaster. Or that two years ago I was in Costa Rica because it was my job to rebuild the houses of the citizens there to have our own roof over our heads, to have the desire, the will, and the need to go to that part of our beautiful. I'm sure we'll accept the amendment, that the government will accept the amendment that most likely will bring it out on its own based on the amendments I see coming from the constituency clubs and parliamentary deputies. And that we will allow the same treatment to all regardless of the index of development and whether last year was in the third month or in the twelfth or some houses that died in these earthquakes in January in our Bania. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28577	Thank you very much. Now we're gonna break up a little bit with the debate. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.16 HOURS]] First honorary representative of the Dark-Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28579	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, I would like to say to the respected Minister or Secretary of State but I have no one, dear colleagues and colleagues, they will now come. Somehow when I'm discussing any bill of law and something, I try to be fair and correct. Fair and correct means next. I would like to now discuss, let's say, the law that Croatia will behave in certain fundamental disasters because it would mean that we are discussing theoretically, that we are not discussing in particular and that these two earthquakes were not. But these two earthquakes happened, and I think it's March 22nd, and I'm thinking of this so-called. the petrinian one, which was in Banovina and Banovina, which was at the end of last year, on December 28th and 29th. And as a result of these earthquakes, of course, is the population that got hurt, people who carry for life wounds, so wounds in their psyche, wounds related to their lives, and it's not easy. No one who suffered the least in the earthquake really deserved to be treated like a potato so that he was a little there, so he's a little there. This law divides the citizens of the Republic of Croatia because the earthquake refers to the territory of the city of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje County, Zagreb County, Sisak-Moslavina and Karlovac County, into people of different categories. The government and the state that should be placed above it is some shortages, some stepmothers and some of them left behind, so, as it were, everything will be covered by integrity, systematicity and everything else. And about what the basic law was, it says that after 10 months. in the city of Zagreb, after the first programme of measures has been adopted, after the Agency for Reconstruction has been established, after the rules have been adopted, you have opportunities to see and you can see on the portals that citizens go from unmill to unloved, that they do not know at all how to submit requests and to be recalibrated again, or that they can make demands at all, in order to create elaborates, they are asked for certain funds. That's not a single citizen who died in an earthquake and was least injured, he didn't deserve it, and that's the result of this law. And if you're going to change bad law and supplement in a bad way, you're going to get a bad product and we're going to do it at the Centre and GLAS club like the basic law we've clearly said why we're against, we're not going to support this either. On the basis of the basic law against, I was not in favour of it for political reasons, because of disagreement and the rest, I was for professional reasons and explained why they were professional reasons. When that happens to you, you have one way because you go into emergency interventions and help urgently, the other way is to construct a reconstruction and the third way is to go in full renewal of a particular piece. From every major disaster like this, you must recognize your opportunity and every time I stand behind this speaker, that's what I'm going to say. Croatia from the earthquake that occurred should recognise its opportunity but not this way. Not like this. It discusses whether it's called Banija or Banovina, I say Banija/Banovina every time but the responsibility will be on Mr Plenkovic and on this government that if after 10 years, you know the place where people live in containers. That can't happen to us. Of course the containers are welcome. Of course, each of the inhabitants there must have been helped, so they lived in abnormal conditions without this earthquake. Of course your containers are welcome, but they're a first aid kit. You're out of air and someone's giving you air to survive. But not as a permanent solution. So that "holds water until the masters go", "it's not my concern, it's someone else's concern", "we work whole, systematicly and don't know how so the care will be on someone else", after 10 years, I'll be very many years old and I won't be sitting here for sure but I'll remember if one of the people in Banovina is still living in containers, so someone else will have to wake up in the morning and know why he didn't do his job. Those people didn't deserve it there. There is no way for these people to do so, and this law does not allow them to quickly reach their roof over their heads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28580	The respected representative Oreskovic will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28581	Thank you. I will point out something different from what many MPs have said, that the reconstruction in the city of Zagreb is late. No, she's not late, she's not refurbishing, she can't do it under this law, the reconstruction is done under a government programme that can't come up with any kind of step and not even do it to repurpose some public buildings. Zagreb will remain abandoned and derutant and what will be implemented will be expensive, slow, unquality and without effect. In 30 years of independence and independence of Croatia, the only thing that policy has produced as an idea and as a vision is the assignment of jobs similar to and selected companies with a conscious passing of the law. It's a model of behavior, it's a pattern that's being embedded in the way the state sees its role independently of what it's about and is being built into a number of laws. Here the problem is that the policies on both the left and the right when we talk about what the role of the state should be in certain situations, are exactly the same. So there is no real choice between what HDZ stands for and its chips and the policy advocated by the SDP and their new tributaries, and this is seen in the example of this law on restoration. Everyone smokes in the same horn, everyone supports a model in which we will not get coffee renewal because the organisation and implementation of the renovation is entrusted to state bodies that are filled with sub-catered people without a vision of development, politically similar people who will first think that they will acquire some new property, instead of making a law that will set out the criteria by which the state will help co-finance by respecting clear defined categories that will apply in all situations in all earthquakes and for all Croatia. The state should also develop good logistics support in the accelerated authorisation procedure, in the control and supervisory actions where it is needed, and that is all, and not to do an implementation project. What kind of houses will be and which will be and which performers will choose the individual owner of the property, this should be released to them by private initiatives. And it has already shown in Banja that many of them are more efficient and capable than the state as such, thus getting less corruption and more freedom from the citizens themselves. The pattern of setting up jobs is happening daily at the state, county and local level. Croatia is a rich country by nature, and also a country of working people, but what it is worth when our citizens can't live fair lives because a horde of corrupt politicians as a nest of locusts eat their entire summer, all the country. Well, that's how they're gonna eat all the restoration. Where HDZ in successive mandates for decades in power, these areas are economically and economically devastated and corruption is known to be included in the HDZ political programme. But what this left party does not understand, it does not understand that such a level of corruption allows them to model which they themselves support, such as the model of reconstruction in which the state is the one that implements public procurement and concludes contracts with contractors even where private real estate is concerned. I'm calling for that model to be abandoned. When the Prime Minister addressed the MPs this morning, he said this law should make a long-term and sustainable solution, but this law did not. It is not because every new earthquake will seek some additional changes and additional criteria. This law is not a good solution because it is a patching up of an existing bad condition, for example in already a derivative Zagreb which is not an honor for us. What will be long-term will only be the process and the process of restoration because the City of Zagreb will not be renewed in the next 15 to 20 years. With this law, Zagreb is left to the mercy and mercy of further destruction, instead of being turned into a generator of new development, not only of the City of Zagreb, but of the rest of Croatia, and will remain as derusive and abandoned as it is now, from politics ignored and abandoned town. This is the City of Zagreb today, and these are the rest of the Republic of Croatia, such as Sisak-Moslavina County and the question of whether any new earthquake will reveal how devastated some of our other parts are. This law has made it impossible to rebuild, the life and development of our city has been killed, but I just hope it doesn't happen that at some point some brick will fall on the head or part of the facade or the bush, so let's just ask ourselves what we've done with this renovation so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28582	The next club of representatives is the green-left bloc and time will be shared by the respected representative Tomasevic and the respected representative Glavasevic. First respected representative Tomašević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28583	Thank you. We have something called Amendments to the Law on the Reconstruction of earthquake-damaged buildings, meaning it is a lex specialis not only geographically but from the perspective of even natural disasters, which in the very name of the law is focused on an earthquake and so far geographically determined on the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje and Zagreb County, and now two more counties are added in view of this earthquake in December. I'll just briefly remind you that we've come to this law in the first place, so after that earthquake in March, the government said it was necessary to make a new law and make it within a few weeks, first I think it was said a few weeks. Then a few months passed, and it got caught up in political quarrels between the City of Zagreb, or the Mayor of Bandic and the Ministry of Construction, or the Government, so that eventually the government would decide to go to elections sooner than expected, without any law being passed. And I said it would be the first thing to be done after the election, only sometime in early September we finally got the law, approximately passed by most MPs, almost consensus here in the Parliament. There have been two readings, in the end and we have supported it, although at that time we have warned because some things have passed us, such as that censorship that allows 100% of the funding by the state if people satisfy that income and property censorship, but on the other hand some amendments have not passed us. For example, a unique institution that would be like this Institute of Reconstruction in Dubrovnik would be similarly designed for this area. Why? It doesn't matter what it's called an institution or a fund, but we warned back then that dualism would probably lead to a harder implementation, and that's exactly what happened. We now have a situation that the Fund, the Renewal Fund, says it's not our fault that it takes so much documentation, it's the Ministry of Civil Engineering, who's been waiting for citizens who, four months after the adoption of the law, are still waiting for whoever it is to mean anything. And now a new institution is added to this framework, which is the Central State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Care, and I'll talk about it later. So in fact, in this law, the previous law, the only thing we have is a more or less financial and institutional framework. The institutional framework, unfortunately, wasn't exactly adopted as we wanted it to be, but we supported the law to give the government a chance to implement it because they said it would be faster and more effective, but we don't see it happening. Given the results we have so far in these three counties, the City of Zagreb and Krapina-Zagorje and Zagreb County. So we have a 60-20-20 financial framework for private facilities. 100% of public purpose facilities are financed, the owner from finance, 100% of funding for reconstruction. And when it comes to private-owned facilities, 60% of the states, 20% of this county is 3 and 20% of the owners themselves, but owners don't even have that 20% if they fall under that income asset price. As far as the institutional framework is concerned, I have already said, it has been going to this Reconstruction Fund, and now this Central State Office for Reconstruction and Housing is being added as another institution that I believe will further complicate the whole situation because it is said that this will make it more effective in rebuilding houses. I mean, we've also seen house renovations, and today the prime minister said that they'd be better off rebuilding houses, because we've seen how houses were restored, for example in Markushevec, how houses have been restored in these last four months in Chucherje, etc. We still have people in containers, and that's in stores, not in housing containers, so literally in a tin box that must be there all winter long, and their houses are for demolition. No replacements, no renovations. Now, as far as this central state office is concerned, it's the same central state office that said it couldn't give a list of companies that were doing a post-war renovation in Bania because the investigation was under way, that then the prime minister would suddenly say it was necessary, and ordered, to give a list of these companies, then suddenly the central state office published it. So then we saw that on that company list we had companies that didn't rebuild Banija at all, so now we don't even know what was published, and that's the same central state office that said that Mayor Žinić who ran that post-war renovation had got home before there was even a law that allowed him to get it to use. So they said they were wrong in the antidate. It's that same central state office. Whose secretary of state is now coming instead of the mayor of Požega to the Parliament because he had an indictment which, behold, was confirmed only after he entered the Parliament, the prime minister knew, put him on the list and now had to come up with new conversations that were recorded secretly about setting up public affairs with public companies to nevertheless, to come to his place now as state secretary from the central state office. It means so much about the institutional framework. As far as the financial framework is concerned, we have a lot of illogicalness, contradiction, in any case, what's most important is that for this 100%-funded construction reconstruction, it takes 2 cumulative conditions. One is that there are assisted areas, according to a regulation that has expired. Its validity expired late last year, and at the same time the government should declare a disaster for the area. Under unclear conditions and criteria in the Civil Protection Act, since for some reason no disaster has been declared for the last earthquake in March, and you there are the criteria that write, it said. So what particularly bothers us, worries us, is this political arbitration of this government or any other government that, based on this decision that is afraid of being political rather than professional, will actually decide who will have 100% of the financing of the reconstruction and who won't. So I don't see the need for such a condition cumulatively, that it's not just about the assisted area, which is unclear, but it's about the area for which the government has declared disaster. On the other hand, if it is an assisted area, again, it is difficult to justify the difference in treatment between the town of Sisak and the rest of Sisak-Moslavina County, meaning literally, it is an average of development and someone who is 100 m away, means 2 houses, one will get 100% renewal, the other will have to finance with 20%. So I don't really see the logic of it. There is then the issue of Krapina-Zagorje County, which is also below the average development index and is not also seen, the reason why it was then and thus not going to 100% of the funding. What we all advocate is that buildings are financed 100% by the state when it comes to Sisak-Moslavina County because it is necessary to help and be solid, they will not have the power, it should be clearly defined in the law, not that some political decision on redistribution decides. Also, in any case, agricultural buildings should be refurbished according to this law, because we already have special purpose buildings in the previous version of the law, and we should also apply them to agricultural buildings, which are in this area, especially Sisak-Moslavina County, which are crucial to the survival of people in general. When we see the implementation of the existing law on the example of Zagreb, from how much the Fund should have been teamed up at all, from how little money was allocated in the budget, from the programme of measures that complicated the additional documentation to the extent that even experts could not meet it to the whole of the state's demand by, where the state requires citizens to give it documents that it owns and still charges them, giving them documents, so that they can get financial assistance from the state to rebuild their facilities. It's all about how this law is gonna work, that's how it's gonna work. The amendments to the law will be implemented in Sisak-Moslavina County, Karlovac County and Zagreb County, because if this is how the renovation was carried out, i.e. It didn't even start in Zagreb and the surrounding area, then we can worry about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28584	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives, yeah, sorry, sorry, you've shared the time, so now will speak the respected representative Glavasevic. You need to be potentially careful.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28585	The devastating earthquake that struck Bania was only the last in a series of disasters to hit the end in the last 30 years. But the disaster that lasts the longest there is a disaster of neglect, abandonment, non-investment and condemnation by the HDZ authorities. In Banja, the first systemically destroyed industry, primarily in the privatisation robbery, but also through the policies of Prime Minister Plenkovic and Minister Coric, who allowed the destruction of the Sisak refinery in favour of their MOL partners and their dear friend and political gatherings of Viktor Orban. HDZ's policy is responsible for the transport isolation of Banija and Sisak-Moslavina County, the best example for this is the abandonment and destruction of the Sisak-Karlovac railway, which connected all major sites of the region. HDZ policy has never recognised the great potential of Banija and Kordun in the production of organic food and in health tourism. The only thing HDZ sees in Banja is the resources that are being hijacked from that region for the private benefit of their pulns and principles.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28586	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the honourable representative Ivan Celjak will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28587	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Secretary of State. Let me begin by expressing my condolences to the families who have lost their loved ones in this earthquake that is not only a disaster but also a tragedy. Please also allow me to thank the firefighters, officers, soldiers, members of the Red Cross, medical staff, all volunteers, all those who participated and who are still involved in the establishment of normal life in the area affected by the earthquake. I am pleased that most of the club representatives discussed in the same direction, in that direction and the goal given to us by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic in his opening statement when he said that he expects us to discuss all the solutions in the Croatian Parliament and bring the best solution to the benefit of the inhabitants living in the earthquake affected area, so in particular Siscani and Sisena. Since the first moment I received a draft bill, I have been in communication with my colleagues at the HDZ Club with the Prime Minister and with the ministers precisely because the law is unclear and inconclusive about Sisak, even according to some interpretations, and this existing bill includes Sisak and Sisak would also go into financing, 100% of the government's funding, but our task here is to discuss and perhaps offer a clearer solution that will certainly benefit residents living in the earthquake affected area. Now, allow me to present you with a few particular data concerning Sisak. So this earthquake was declared a disaster because it was much stronger and much more devastating than the earthquake in March last year. This earthquake also caused significant material damage in the area of the town of Sisak. So the town of Sisak has multiple units, when one yellow mark is stopped at the entrance of a building that has 5 floors and 4 apartments per floor, that means 20 households, 20 families were affected. Unlike perhaps if a yellow mark was placed on one house, then one household was affected, one family, and I fear that in the end, the mammalian families would have the greatest damage and would be affected by this devastating earthquake. So in the area of the town of Sisak, we have a total of 9 194 applications, of which 516 red tags, which means that these are unusable objects. We have 997 yellow marks, so these are objects that are temporarily unusable. In Zagreb County we have 3,711 applications, of which 59 red and 203 yellow. There are 899 applications in the area of the carlova County, of which 28 red and 29 yellow. Of course, therefore, not all applications have been processed. So we expect an even bigger number of red and yellow tags. So, I think we all know that Sisak died in the Homeland War and the Komarevo that part of Sisak was the first line of defense. As for the transition to Sisak, the transition was never well carried out, and unfortunately Sisak and the work of Sisak-Moslavina County, which was affected by the earthquake, it was necessary to revitalise in every sense and before this earthquake. It is necessary today, and therefore it is good that a working group is established in which there will be colleagues from VI. election units to develop a programme that will also include concrete measures and concrete projects to revitalise our area. When we talk about revitalisation for Sisak and for the area of Sisak-Moslavina County affected by the earthquake, jobs are important. I've said several times, adequately paid job is the best measure of demographic policy. Due to an adequate paid job, people will return to that area, people will remain living in that area. As for Sisak himself, Sisak is an urban historical and territorial unit with the town of Petrinja and is mentioned here several times, so there is no natural border between Sisak and Petrinja. We are literally in a situation where a neighbor who lives on a few houses, according to this proposal for a solution if we interpret it, would have to participate with 20% in the reconstruction and a neighbor who lives on these few houses would have financed him a refund of 100%. The HDZ Club will support this law once we all find a clear solution together that will benefit people living in the area, especially in favour of Sischen and Siscena. And please allow me to refer at the end of this presentation to something Mr. Glavasevic said, and I've heard that before. For the first time I heard from Mr. Grbin's SDP president when he talked about revitalising the Sisak-Karlovac railway, I don't know if you know that the part on the move from Petrinja to Karlovac is an affair that is probably still investigating the DORH that is one of the main actors of Sisak Mayor Kristina Ikić Baniček. So there's a contracted job of 10 million kuna for an association that didn't exist at the time of the contract, the association was founded, the railroad was gone, and it seems to me it's still under the investigation of the DORH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28588	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of HSS and HSU on behalf of whom the respected representative Zeljko Lenart will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28589	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues today, we are discussing a law that should certainly be fair for all the citizens who have suffered and who live on this earthquake destroyed, an earthquake damaged. First of all, this should not be the subject of partying and winning political points because this is an accident of a people living in that area regardless of party membership and regardless of national and religious membership. But unfortunately, I'm through a debate and I don't get the impression that that's exactly the way it is, it seems to me that everyone is trying to do something here, and what I'm afraid of and what has already been proven in the restoration since the Homeland War that there are always more equal ones who are better off and those who have gone far worse and should have been equal. Unfortunately, this devastating earthquake of Sisak-Moslavina County would still be the poorest county on the sidelines in which Mayor Žinic and his mayor Rosovac are sitting, boasting, unfair to local self-government units in the Sisak-Moslavina County where those in power and not members of HDZ were cut off for funding from the county budget. Unfortunately, for 3 years I have been warning from this speaker of the behaviour of Mayor Žinic, I have appealed to Prime Minister Plenkovic to try to discipline Žinic and Rosovac, but no one cared about it. And now everyone pretends they didn't know, gentlemen, you knew I've shown you a lot of things here, unfortunately what I couldn't back up the paperwork I didn't say, but the fact is that I couldn't even get to the file because in May 8th 2019, I referred a parliamentary question to the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of State Property whether Ivo Žinić with his belonging to the OIB was owned by an apartment owned by one or another ministry. Unfortunately, to this day, I haven't received an answer, and we know that the deadline for answering parliamentary questions is 30 days. Unfortunately these people were also so boastful and arrogant, corruption I ruled in Sisak-Moslavina County, people were afraid of these people and instead of revealing the institutions of all these bad events in the county exposed this unfortunate earthquake that brought much damage to innocent citizens. The long neglect of Sisak-Moslavina County means over 30 years, poor transport infrastructure, devastated economy, destroyed agriculture, residents have left Sisak-Moslavina County data from 2019 says 17.3% of young people between 15 and 30 have left Sisak-Moslavina County, which is a defeated data for a single county that has resources in which they could be decently living. And now we come to a law that should divide the citizens again into those who live in Petrinja, Glina, those who live in Sisak but the red sticker is the one that should identify them. All those who have a red label on their facility no matter where they live, and the damage caused by this devastating earthquake should have the same right to rebuild. So if it's in Petrinja and Clay 100% then it has to be 100% in Sisak. Here I also support a colleague of the Celjaks who is also on the trail of this and who stands up for his Siščene, but next to Sišken there are other parts of the county and I think we should identify all these people and put them in the same category. Citizens lost their roof over their heads, no matter which city, which part of the county or which county in the Republic of Croatia. We cannot rebuild in Sisak, Zagreb, Petrinja and Glini, although they have a common denominator, a square building of a building costs the same in all these cities and all parts of the Republic of Croatia. However, the value of these facilities is not the same. And that's what we need to take care of. Sisku has been taken away from the ironworks, refineries and many other production facilities, people have abandoned him and let's not tell those Sisak residents by this law now that you're different, you're not the same as others. Many more youths will receive a message from the fact that it is simply smarter to leave Sisak than to wait for restoration. It is necessary to primarily use a civic operation from the Sisak-Moslavina County, although we are aware that unfortunately for such a short period of work we do not have enough construction operations, we do not have enough qualified construction workers and for now it is expected that this reconstruction will stretch over a long period of years, and we must be aware that many do not have time to wait. And these experiences here in this part of the devastating earthquake to this day are talking about inequalitys, that this is again talking about some favored ones that are involved or used during the contests to supply the affected areas. So we have an example that the cattle food plant from Čakovec provides livestock food even though we in Sisak-Moslavina County have the capacity to produce livestock and I think these people should be included because they work here, they do, they employ other residents of Sisak-Moslavina County and they pay taxes in that Sisak-Moslavina County. There are also caterers and all those who can contribute to their part, and with that, save their companies that they have because it's not only a matter of financial component but also psychologically because these people realize that someone recognized that they were useful and that they could do something useful and not think about what actually happened to them. There is also a question of what is going on with the disposal of radioactive waste in the Shop Mountain, whether we will continue to force it even though we have not agreed so far, and we have said that this is not the place for such a one dump, although there is a military abandoned that seems to be similar to that. And what I'd like to say in the end, and what we've recently come up with in the same debate over the reconstruction that took place between '95. and 2000. And today some say that there is a statute of limitations, some say that antiquity occurs, that obsolescence is not for these objects because the damage is only now, I think we should define this law. install a provision to make all failures to restore the i.e. There is no statute of limitations for unskilled construction work, so that we should tell those who will work in advance not to play with the restoration, that they do not play with people's fates, because thank God for the bad performance, and some of us were also logistics at the time when it was done, so we were moving around in that area, we saw that there was a lot of talk and that everything was done. Unfortunately, however, no one could prove it today even then, but the fact is that many people could have died because of the bad performance, but thank God it didn’t happen, so let’s tell those who would work that they didn’t get a renovation through uncles, godfathers, party belongings, but they got a renewal to do it right and that residents who would move into these future renovated houses knew in advance that they had safe facilities and that in the event of an earthquake they didn’t have to be afraid to die there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28590	Thank you very much. We are now going to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to the respected representative Ivana Posavec Krivec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28591	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate. Today, it is not easy from this position to talk about the area of Sisak-Moslavina County, Karlovac County and all those areas affected by this earthquake that had devastating power and which has indeed left behind a great disaster because today this area is still shaking, because even today these people feel great fear. This may be the most difficult consequence left by this earthquake, this feeling of fear, uncertainty, and impotence when such a great natural disaster comes and you cannot resist it in any way when in just 15 or 20 seconds you lose all your property. And as many colleagues and colleagues have said before me today and not for the first time, not for the first time. In this very lifetime of our generation, a little younger and a little older, unfortunately, they've already lived through it. Many people in this area have said that they have faced war casualties more easily than they have faced the traumas resulting from the earthquake because they knew where the enemy is expected, how they expect it, and when. An earthquake is a natural disaster in which there is no such feeling or conjecture. So I think that today we have to show full solidarity because Croatia is a thorny area, it can occur in any part of the earthquake, it happened last year in Zagreb, fortunately with much less destructive action because if such forces and strengths hit Zagreb or any other urban, urban environment would have consequences greater than Albania had in its last earthquake. We need to be aware of some of the things that happened and we need to be responsible. Today, I have also appealed to the prime minister that the system and the state be responsible for all the victims and for the complete space that has hit this earthquake. Why am I saying that now? Because it seems to me that we are going from injustice to injustice, it seems to me that with one solution we are creating new injustices, and these people have not earned it, none of them deserve it. So, we have facts that are, are derived from this law and that clearly say that the town of Sisak is, for example, treated as the City of Zagreb, unlike Petrinja and Gline, because it belongs to the 6th group. It is treated as a unit of local self-government, according to a decision to classify local self-government units according to the level of development. On the other hand, the entire Sisak-Moslavina County and the regional self-government unit is an assisted area and belongs to Group I. Then we have another thesis if I may add, and that says that Sisak-Moslavina County is a fully assisted area because the unit is regional self-government while Sisak is a unit of local self-government. Now, please go back to the city of Zagreb. The city of Zagreb has a special position under the law, at the same time the unit of local and regional self-government units and we will all agree together that no matter how devastating the earthquake was in the city of Zagreb last year, it did not hit all parts of the city of Zagreb, but the whole city of Zagreb that carries the status of the county is treated equally, so I see no reason why it could not be applied to Sisak-Moslavina County for a number of other reasons that tell you that more than 50% of the population affected by this earthquake is living in the Sisak area. Furthermore, the town of Sisak has twice as many unemployed as any other part of the Republic of Croatia or we are talking here about the city of Zagreb. Then why is Sisak in an equally unfavourable position, or more unfavorable position compared to other parts of Sisak-Moslavina County? And what might be the most important thing to say right now. In view of the exoduses that have occurred in that space since the 19th century, it really needs constructive reconstruction but not space, but the restoration of society. We must do this all together in a way to come up with concrete programmes and to know that what now in Sisak-Moslavina County is worth perhaps 500 or 600 euros in new construction, in other parts of the Republic of Croatia, is worth a lot more. We need to create financial preconditions for people to go back there and stay and we need to reward all those who are willing to live in that space, that must be our mission and our obligation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28592	The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Vesna Nadj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28593	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. After a devastating earthquake hit Sisak-Moslavina County on 28 and 29 December 2020 with an epicenter near the city of Petrinja Magnitude 6.2, the government of the Republic of Croatia decided on the declaration of disaster caused by the earthquake in Sisak-Moslavina County, Zagreb, Karlovac County, 6 days later and 4 January 2021, although it was already evident on the very day of the devastating earthquake on December 29th that the situation was caused by a devastating earthquake that hit the city of Petrinja and Sisak and the area of the entire Sisak-Moslavina County has all the elements of the disaster. Since many buildings have been destroyed or damaged so much that they cannot stay in them, there is obviously a need for the urgent procedure of norms and procedures and the financing of rebuilding buildings damaged not only in the area of Sisak-Moslavina County but also in the area of the carlovakia County. Since the Law on the Reconstruction of Buildings damaged by an earthquake in the city of Zagreb, the Krapina-Zagorska County and Zagreb County is already in force, the logical decision is to go to amend and supplement the law in order to cover and rebuild buildings damaged by an earthquake in the area of Sisak-Moslavina and Karlova County by adding Article 1 which reads "the rules and measures laid down in this law apply appropriately in all cases of the declaration of natural disaster or disaster caused by the earthquake in the area of the Republic of Croatia." 3. with a capacity of 5.5, with an epicenter at Markuševac or at least 1000 applications submitted by citizens for rebuilding earthquake-damaged buildings. But it's not that close. On the pages of the Ministry of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property, 9 types of renewal applications have been published, here are the forms I have here, with the force of evidence that needs to be collected. Citizens wander from one city office to another and the rest of the ministry and cannot get the full and accurate information they need to make demands. It's no wonder only 250 renewal requests were received. That's how they are, for example. in the Arena hostel owned by Zagreb Holding 200 citizens whose facilities were marked red or yellow and after these massive earthquakes are still marked with a red sticker and they are now 17 days after the devastating earthquake no one visited them, they wander from one office to another, they have one office within that hostel but they say that whatever they ask them, they have no answer. Some citizens self-renovated their homes and apartments after the earthquake on March 22nd last year, but all in vain because this earthquake on December 29th last year destroyed everything again. But citizens in a well-placed hostel continue to wander and do not know what to do. They're not the only ones. The request requires a set of evidence owned by one of the public-legal bodies of the Republic of Croatia, and therefore the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction must obtain by official duty. I'm warning you. Article 47(2) The General Administrative Procedure Act, which states: “The official person will provide official information on the facts on which the official record is kept by a public-legal authority or another public-law body or court.” Therefore, all tax rulings, pension solutions, solutions by the competent office for defenders or the CZSS on the guaranteed minimum fee or extract from the Motherbook of the Married, all of this must be obtained by the official by official office. In addition, in accordance with the principle of assistance to the parties of Art. Seven. The General Administration Act, an authorised official when he learns or assesses that the party has the basis for the exercise of a right, will warn her of this as well as the consequences of its actions and failure to act and will worry that the ignorance or ignorance of the party and other persons participating in the proceedings shall not be at the expense of the right to which the law belongs. It is evident that the procedure under the applicable law has not been effective and that the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction and State Property has failed to organise adequate and effective legal assistance for citizens and to facilitate their submission of applications and procurement of documents, in particular those which officials must obtain from other public authorities or courts. It is therefore necessary to simplify the procedure and facilitate the submission of applications to citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28594	Thank you. The next debate will be a respected representative of Domagoj Price. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28595	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, dear colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives, a devastating earthquake that struck our country on 28 and 29 December 2020 in the area of Sisak, Petrinja, Gline, Lekenika and many other places is a major tragedy. Lost lives and enormous damage are difficult to lose for Croatia. In the event of this earthquake, as well as the March earthquakes in Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje and Zagreb County, we saw a rapid reaction from Croatian citizens who organized themselves to help the unhappy. Already on the day of the most devastating earthquakes of December 29, many of our fellow volunteers set out to help and carry with them the collected donations. I was able to testify personally after handing donations to two locations in Sisak where much help had already been gathered and the fact that we waited in Glina for more than 3 hours in the middle of the night in the column to hand over donations. It shows the amount of things collected to help in just one day, the day of the earthquake. But people need a home for normal life, which is what many citizens have lost in the earthquake. That's why it's important for the restoration to begin as soon as possible. The first thing is the adoption of a quality legal framework to begin the reconstruction on the basis of it. We always have to learn from experience. Unfortunately, the citizens of Zagreb and the surrounding counties are still waiting for the start of reconstruction by the state 10 months after the earthquake. They cope alone, struggle with many problems, and they can rely not on the help of the state but on the help of their neighbor, friends and neighbors. I therefore particularly point out that the adoption of laws or legal amendments is not a solution in itself that is only the beginning of a reconstruction business that the state must carry out as a result of such a disaster. He does not understand why the different amounts provide for assistance for Sisak from the one for Glina and Petrinja anyway between nearby cities there is addiction. If one city loses its population the whole region will feel it in a negative way, it should help everyone equally. Titsku like the rest of them. That's good for the whole region. We particularly care about this part of the country due to a significant decline in the number of inhabitants in the past decades that could continue rapidly as a result of the earthquake. Many homes are not for life, buildings in which space is used by health and other institutions are damaged. All this is a big job that rebuilds must be solved. That's exactly why we need to get started as soon as possible. This best tells me the experience of talking to the victims of the earthquake in Zagreb who have warned of the high price of electricity that is their only source of heating while living in containers or the fact that in many cases, parts of buildings and houses that can fall more and more at any time. Some themselves began to rebuild or build a new home without being able to welcome state aid and make the state work. In particular, the problem of a large number of documents that must be collected and conflicting opinions that citizens say they have received from institutions. That's why I'm saying this. The bad experience of those affected by the March 2020 earthquake that have not yet welcomed the restoration. That can't happen again. Let's not let the people of Sisak-Moslavina and Karlovac County have to wait so long to rebuild. Let's not let them feel on their skin all the bad sides and the slowness of the system as the Zagreb people I spoke to felt. By preparing the law, the government must be aware that lawmaking is just the beginning of business. After the law has been passed, the absolute priority is to start implementing it. The citizens of Zagreb are waiting for a renewal of 10 months. Let's not let the people of Petrinja, Sisak, Clay and other places wait so long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28596	We have one replica, the esteemed MP Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28597	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, I thank you for this detailed analysis in your debate, only I would still be attached to Article 38. The law renewing the decision-making process for the removal and construction of replacement family houses shall be submitted by the owner or co-owner. The application is defined according to the National Journal of the European Union programme 119/2020 and covers detailed documentation. How the population of Sisak-Moslavina County will age older or who will meet their request and collect complete documentation. What happens to people like that whose housing has been destroyed and they don't apply? And now I'm asking you actually do you think, do you agree that by the Ministry of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property you should form a body that will help file requests and collect documentation to the old population so that they don't, so that they don't run out of roof over their heads? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28598	The answer of the esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28599	I think any good ideas can help, that you can think about them and see what the best idea is to help the citizens in the area.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28600	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28601	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have been having a discussion for days about something that is key in every orderly and modern society so that this society can qualify as such, which is a debate on equality. Equality between people living in an area of equality between people living in neighboring areas. In the case of this law, this equality is reflected in the question of which the state will fully co-finance the reconstruction and which will be asked to participate in it itself. When we tabled our proposal to amend and supplement this law, we at the Club of Representatives of the SDP suggested changing the censorship. As you know, the SDP has been advocating for years to raise the non-taxable part of income through changes to the Income Tax Act, and also, in addition to raising the censorship from 4 to 5000 kuna, we have also suggested progressiveness in a way that defines who will be co-financed in full, who will have to participate from 5, 10 or 15 and 20%, respectively. So it won't be like the current law, if you have 4,000 kunas, the state pays you everything. And if you have 4001 you have to participate in the maximum amount. This is neither just nor even. When we saw the bill, we realized that the government was going in a different direction. The government didn't go with censorship, the government didn't go for progressiveness. The government has decided to co-finance territorialally and in this it has also wronged in a way that in Petrinja and Glina has decided to co-finance 100% and not in Sisak. That's exactly why we submitted two amendments. One that refers to censorship, one that refers to territory. You spoke of consensus today. We're ready for him, but make up your mind. We've offered you two solutions. Let us try between these solutions to find a synergy that will allow the largest number of our citizens to get what they need as soon as possible, which is a roof over their heads. But speaking of getting a roof over our heads, we have another problem. There were patterns here today. And the minister claimed that you only need one form. Now I'm going to prove to you that that's not true. You want co-financing, and you don't have the funds. You must submit this form asking to ensure your participation or to provide you with a guarantee of 20%. You don't have any money like I said, and the roof is sneezing. You must fill out this form in order to get financial assistance for temporary protection of the facility. I'll do it again. You don't have any money. You need to fill out this form to get help with the projector's engagement. In the end, you came to the point where you can apply for renewal and you're putting it on this form, but that story isn't over because you still don't have the money. Then you must fill out another form, this fifth one in one case which you will agree with me neither in the Zagreb area nor in Sisak-Moslavina and other counties will be a rare case. And as far as administration and unnecessary red tape is concerned, I'm going to read to you just some of the things that the state is asking its citizens to do. IRS confirmation. Isn't the IRS a state? It's an excerpt from the wedding's birth certificate. As far as I know, it's run by the state. Decision of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. State again. The MUP's credentials of residence. Look at the wonders of this country. And this is just part of the documents that citizens have to bring in just one form. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we're looking for a few things. But what is crucial is righteousness and equality. I'm convinced, I'm sure we can all agree on that together, and the other is to cut red tape. Don't make people who've been hurt by homes wait in line a few times to collect all the paperwork they need to get a roof over their heads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28602	Thank you. The next debate will be the respected representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28603	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I've been working on this policy business for almost 40 years in continuity, and it's hard for me to talk about this topic to save a purely political discourse that wouldn't be somewhat personal because I'm the only one here who's been born and who's lived my whole life in Sisak, so I've suffered these thousands of earthquakes in the last three or a little more weeks. I am also one of those whose family has suffered considerable material and material damage. That's why I'd use these two, three minutes that I'm only available for two things. The first to thank, as Sishenin, the truly amazing energy of enormous empathy, the solidarity shown by the citizens of Croatia according to the earthquake in the affected area, according to my Sisak and Banija, towards people. All those institutions that managed how they knew and knew and did great work. I am particularly impressed with the firemen to thank, even now after two days of debate here and all colleagues of the MPs regardless of which party they came from who did not accept to put Sisak in a different position or the citizens of Sisak to put themselves in a second-rate position compared to the victims, the same victims, the same disasters just a few miles away from their houses but I would also like to say that I see a great danger, which threatens to be what natural laws are and what nature has done, and what we can do by passing laws that regulate the way we live and which we will develop and manage this country, which we can affect that we really be all at the level of what is now so necessary. This disaster is comparable to its consequences only perhaps with the Homeland War and with the consequences it left behind. This is a huge test of the ability of the Croatian state, which is the test on which we test how much we are capacitated and as a state and its institutions, but also as a society that, on this example, by relieving these severe consequences, we actually see how capable we are of developing our own country, which is unfortunately 30. It actually has zero, zero, cumulative growth rate 0%. We need something and we need to do and we need to do it and that's the moment maybe right now. I will not speak and thank those colleagues, I have heard the clubs from the position, the Serbian People's Party, HSLS, and also the HDZ Club, through the words of colleagues, will seek a solution and probably not give a vote to the law in which Sisak will be financed and his reconstruction in a different way. But when I talk about that danger I see, I see there's a serious problem if we ever needed a consensus again, if we're in the history of this country in 30 years. We have proved that we have two major strategic objectives, one is the creation and defence of the country, and the other has been the inclusion in these European Atlantic integrations achieved consensually unanimously then I think it is here as well. Every attempt, this disaster is a couple of excellent political topics, but any attempt to do so cheaply party politicize is inadmissible, disgusting, dissuasive to any citizen who is currently suffering the consequences of this disaster. I appeal and plead once again let's not use this disaster, this disaster to undermine what we might actually do together. I called 10 days ago on, I sent an initiative to meet regardless of party commitment, to ideology and value, and to try on this unideological concept to do everything as advocates so that this topic does not fall into oblivion and that it is to say so our permanent concern not only of us in this but also in the next meeting.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28604	Thank you very much. The next debate will be respected MPs Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28605	Thank you very much, dear Vice President HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Reconstruction of the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje County and Zagreb County, with the final proposal of the law on page 3, says the model, which explains the regulation of the model of temporary housing. What does that mean? What does the word “temporary housing ” mean? There's no time limit for that temporary. Yes, the law states that the deadline will be prescribed by the first renewal program. But when you read the first renewal program, then you can see that only in a few literally 8 lines stands de facto one single formulation that is important to each reader of the program, which is that renewal deadlines cannot be universally applicable. And it is not my intention to criticise excessively, it is not my intention to seek correction in that part, it is not my intention to be negative, it is my intention to try to motivate the ruling to really consider the illogicality of this bill's amendment, because at the same time, while the deadlines of renewal cannot be universally applicable this bill requires that some other things be universally applicable, so the law regulates that the rules and measures of this law will apply to all areas that would later be affected by the earthquake. Here we have heard all day critics that you cannot set the same funding criteria for JLS that are located in different groups by the development index and we will all agree that it is not equal to one City of Zagreb to finance 20% of the share as it is to do to a barrier that is in the fifth group of development or one municipality or city in the fourth group, for example the Ship of Moravica. It is simply not the same because it is according to this development index that, among other things, produce much worse results and by average sources of income per capita and by education and unemployment, etc., of course, have much less fiscal capacity. Years before the devastating earthquake in Banovina, we had opportunities to see what conditions some residents of the area live under. Many reports have revealed actually misery, severe misery in the area, but they have also discovered something else. They discovered the country's indifference that after the age of 25. which passed the war, after the release from the great Serbian occupation of states has forgotten both Banovina and its inhabitants not only of the state, even those who were in power in that part of the area because how else do they explain that one of the May Poles does not have public lighting. Can you imagine all of you here where you come from, that in your place, there is no public lighting on your street? I can't. These people who have stayed there or who have returned to that area after the war, after the liberation of heroes, are truly true heroes regardless of whether they are Serbs, eat Croats, whether they are Bosniaks or Roma. This law, or quality law, provides an opportunity for us to finally start treating this area as part of the Republic of Croatia, and these citizens as truly equal citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And therefore this law must not be a polygon for politics or political accounting. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs have the opportunity to make a good and enforceable law, nothing has united us since the war like this disaster. We have the opportunity to help people and show them that our desire and interest are to keep them down, but the reconstruction must start immediately, not as in Zagreb. These people are worthy of our actions and deserve our attention. If the peas that were in the reconstruction are repeated after the war will be irrelevantly said Banovina or Banija And today it's irrelevant. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] On this law we fall or pass as men All of us. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28606	Thank you very much. The next debate is respected MPs Mirela Petir, Marianne Petir, I ask you nicely, please stick to the time we all began to exceed the time, little by little it is not good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28607	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Representatives and deputies, at the beginning of this debate, I express my deepest condolences and human proximity to the families of all the victims in the devastating earthquake. I also thank all volunteers and emergency services who have really helped to resuscitate the situation on the ground and provide the first aid that was most needed for the inhabitants of the earthquakes at that time. We know that the earthquake caused great damage to the homes of the inhabitants of Sisak-Moslavina, Zagreb and Karlovac County. He destroyed numerous public infrastructure facilities, sacral facilities, cultural heritage sites, numerous agricultural holdings were destroyed, but so were economic operators, our craftsmen and entrepreneurs. It's a really big disaster, it takes a lot, a constant earthquake of soil doesn't help us even with that climate situation, or I'd say the troubles further worsen the problem. Although the damages are still listed, it is clear to all of us that they will be quite large and therefore it is important to act very quickly so that all those who have lost their homes will receive adequate replacement suitable accommodation, as well as that everything that has been destroyed will indeed be restored quickly, quality and in a fair way within a reasonable time. I have to particularly apostrophe here and our farmers who have suffered badly. According to the register and what the Ministry of Agriculture checked through its employees over 1,650 farmers were directly damaged by the earthquake. They should also be focused when it comes to their accommodations because we know that neither they nor many other residents want to leave their homes, and especially those who have cattle nor can leave because they have to take care of it. Many stables are destroyed, it is also necessary to provide temporary accommodation through containers, which through some assembly facilities. So to provide that first aid so that things on the ground work and that they would not be under any pressure to agree to some can say perhaps immoral offers. The Ministry of Agriculture has provided through its services a ransom at a fair price for all those who want to sell their cattle, not to fall for the offer of buyers and buyers. I would also like to point out here that it is very important for our craftsmen and entrepreneurs to be involved in the whole process, that it be quick so that we can save our workers who, of course, need to secure jobs, but keep them in that space so they don't leave. And it is also necessary in a wise and sustainable way to use the resources and materials that we have in that area for reconstruction. Of course, there's a lot of problems. They need to be dealt with immediately. They need to be dealt with urgently. We must not be caught in some political bickering that we could listen to today because I think we should all be the goal of coming together in a common way to a common solution that will be just. I would like to remind you that in these 30 years, residents of Sisak-Moslavina County have lost their homes twice, in the Homeland War, and now in this earthquake, and therefore as a representative who was born in that county, who lives in that county, are deeply affected when some insinuate that in fact the citizens of Sisak-Moslavina County are given more to this law than others because it is simply not true. In Sisak-Moslavina County, Croatia was defended, in Sisak-Moslavina County is the longest border in this part of Europe, and this is important from the aspect of security to underline why we should aim to ensure that people living in this area have decent living conditions in order to continue living in this area. I must say that we are looking for solutions, and I believe that we will find a solution together for the citizens of Sisak, but also for the citizens of Lekenik, because there has also been a natural disaster, and in one area and another was also the first line of defense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28608	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He is the first respected representative of Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28609	Thank you, Vice President. I would also like to thank all the people of great heart and love who have helped the country in need, or people in an earthquake affected. There is no doubt that we will restore all the houses and I believe it will certainly be much better than they have been so far. However, here I would like to problematize how to actually restore the soul of a man in this area of Banovina, and we know that throughout history he suffered greatly. And I think that my first step should be to do psychological teams to help people, because you believe me here in Zagreb, too, is not easy to sleep when I know that Petrinja is near and that earthquakes keep coming up. So what do you do to restore the soul of a man or an economy and that people really feel good in that area and not live in misery... Thank you. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28610	Thank you. Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28611	Thank you very much, Mr. Simičević. I think it's very important to restore dignity to people because in order to save your soul you have to have dignity, and in a situation that is so uncertain and uncertain, and when your home has disappeared in a few seconds when it didn't happen to you for the first time in your life, and when you sleep in conditions that are not quite suitable, and you may not be able to be with your family, because because of that fear, of course, children and women may be trying to place themselves in a more suitable place, then it's an extremely difficult situation and therefore it's important to organise teams of psychological assistance. But it is important to act actively in terms of the overall and demographic and economic renewal of the region. We have potential there. We have great natural resources. We have a really interesting and diversified industry and all of this together can be the engine of the rest of the people in that area if we show them from all levels of government that we really mean it and that this isn't a short-term concern for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28612	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28613	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, Petir, you pointed out that it is now a priority to secure accommodation, and then, of course, restore houses, and then, of course, preserve jobs, or ensure that life can be held or returned. For the life of one community, I believe that you will agree, it is also important that religious communities play an important role, and we know that this earthquake unfortunately has a lot of sacral objects both Catholic and Orthodox have been damaged, and that the restoration also means the restoration of these objects not because of the building, but because of the restoration of the same communities that can and can mean and symbolize a form of solidarity, a form of life that is still needed today especially in this area. Well, I'd like to ask you a comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28614	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28615	Thank you, Mr. Stier. You are absolutely right because numerous cultural heritage sites, including sacral objects, have been injured. Among these facilities is the Sisak cathedral. I think everyone's been cut off somehow by that image of the church in Zažina where unfortunately he died and our organist. All of these are truly situations that are extremely shaken and that will require a lot of effort and a lot of investment in order to contribute to the restoration of this cultural good once we rebuild our homes. I would especially like to thank the volunteers of the Croatian Caritas with whom I have had the opportunity to cooperate, volunteer and see what they are doing. Over thousands of young people who carried out many, many tons of humanitarian aid on their hands also brought to the smallest villages that many may not have heard of are commendable exploits and indeed here to say Gradisten Croats "God of pay".
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28616	And we have a replica of the esteemed representative Ivana Posavec the Guilty.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28617	Thank you, Vice President. Your colleagues Petir well underlined the outstanding importance in the geostrategic and security aspect of Sisak-Moslavina County for the territory of Croatia, but I will also say freely about the space of Europe, because as you said here we are defending the European Union's border. And I think it is important that we put it in context, which means the space that people have left to defend not only Croatia, but also for the defence of the European Union. So we need additional efforts to make what has happened in the last 10 years, which is a loss of population of about 25% in Sisak-Moslavina County or about 40,000 inhabitants to revitalise and systematically return to this area primarily by providing them with work space. You mentioned here craftsmen and entrepreneurs are the first exiles from Petrinja, from Glina, from Sisak. Where will they continue their work if there is no container settlement? So this space has no natural potential for demographic restoration. We need to intervene urgently.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28618	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28619	Thank you, colleague Posavec, for your consideration. Yes, here I see here is my colleague Bosnjakovic, he and I responded last year to a meeting that is a scientific and professional gathering organised by a local action group of Una where we discussed the survival of Banovina over the next 10 years, because everything that should happen there should be considered in the long term precisely for all of these reasons that I have been pushing into the debate and that you mentioned in your replica. When it comes to economics, as far as I know, a container settlement is being prepared in Petrinja, as well as in Sisak to allow all those owners who lost their business space to gain temporary space and to start activities immediately. But without jobs, without investment in those perspective industries that are, for example, for us and agriculture, and the wood processing industry and the food industry will hardly be able to achieve results during the expected period, especially when it comes to the rest of the people or to attracting some new residents who, if adequate conditions are provided, might be happy to choose this area for their lives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28620	Thank you. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Davor Dretar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28621	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. Today is quite interesting for me coming from three. Election units. The whole debate began with the mention of one town in Zagorje Stubica. It is mentioned in a very interesting context why not her, or why her, why these people, why these residents. Gornja Stubica is one of the region's most severely affected by the March earthquake. But he's only one end. I will allow myself the freedom to call all these people once again in their places, for there are also the salt stream and Bezje, Jakšinec, Karivaroš, Gornja Podgora, the village of Milek and many others, but as it is said in the heart of the dear house of our people who suffered terribly in the earthquake in March, and unfortunately these earthquakes in December this year have done further damage to the already shaken objects. I reminded you one more time, and I'll remind you again. Thank you to Mr. Horvat who was on the radio and spoke to the residents. Mr. Stromar, who went right after the earthquake to the end. But let us remind ourselves that the day after tomorrow it will be ten months, a full ten months of 12 families living in bungalows in Terme Jezerčica and the solution is not being seen. The season will come, the weather will come. We hope everyone and the end of this covid-19 horror. The hotel authorities will ask these people to leave the area because they will want to use it for commercial purposes, which is completely understandable. These people have no solution. Many problems here today from Mr. Horvat's mouth sounded so easy to solve. Let's just say Mr. Horvat here has been quite authoritatively showing us all the demands. He was talking, so you can hand it over to the Internet. No, Grandma Stefica can't hand it over on the Internet. She can't even have her grandson, a 19-year-old Mladen who, like all young people, is very important to the Internet and everything, but look at the wonders of the speed of the Internet in the Krapina-Zagorje County range from one to five Megabits per second. So, in order for one single document as the old Zagorski says to be infertile, you're going to need all afternoon. So, work on it a little bit. Mr. Pupovac here today spoke of a terrible fact and I am completely in agreement with it the buyers of Banovina buy cows sometimes at 400. Apparently, 50 euros now and then. Unfortunately, there are no buyers in my Zagorje, there are no buyers because there are no more cattle. No more Zagorje cow, no more spiders, no more spiders. The Croatian state calculated that this would not be worth it. Unfortunately, more and more old age households in Croatia are inviting us to take seriously the fact that there are people living there who have serious existential problems and to help them. Once again, I appeal to the maximum respect for the property census and to subsidise the costs of rebuilding their facilities to these people in a 100% amount. Of course, this earthquake occurred just before the end of the year, which further damaged their housing and economic facilities. These people aren't easy. I'd like to go back to our current hour yesterday. He's very attached to this subject of our Law on Reconstruction. When that terrible earthquake happened that hit Sisak-Moslavina County and Karlovac County we rushed there, tens of thousands of people from all over Croatia without asking why and not asking how we got there and made ourselves available. We were there, we were helping. Yesterday Mr. Shashin called our actions a collection of cheap political points. It's an unintelligent and worrying statement. Helping a man especially in such a situation can only be an honor. And please let's stop it, because as we would say, Zagorci... Evil is in the eye of the observer. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who looks wrong and does wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28622	Thank you very much. The next debate will be a respected representative of Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28623	Thank you very much. During the debate on the earthquake law 10 months ago when he was here about Zagreb where it was the same disaster, then I said here it does not have to be passed just for Zagreb law. Essential disasters and threats will take place in other parts of Croatia. Unfortunately, we always start to change things when they happen, when the elemental accidents happen and any threats occur. Unfortunately, what the earthquake has done has exposed all the bad policies that have led to two-thirds of Croatia that are not seen from Zagreb under these lights. And all policies that have been conducted, and even laws that often change about the development of units of local self-government and these areas are so unreasonable. Here you go. It's almost as if it hasn't been developed. The Cetinski area is almost more developed than Paris, so it's one senselessness and as far as the earthquake itself is concerned, there's a problem with what our Prime Minister El Bahato comes here and I ask him as a parliamentary representative, which is why the system doesn't work when they're threatened. The only thing that's neat is that we have the press conferences of the head of civil protection with rank, with sunglasses, sunny, neat suits. Unfortunately, the system didn't function horizontally or vertically. Ten days and more residents of Petrinja, Clay and Sisak depended on volunteers, and that is a fact. What about the stock reserves? And it's not nice if you'd tribal here to agree by consensus to pass one law, because... which took place colleagues and colleagues of the elemental disaster in Petrinja, Sisak, who guaranteed that it would not happen. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There'll always be some kind of threat. And the Prime Minister can't come here El Bahato acts like he's freed all of Croatia. Well, he insults people here. Instead of calling for a consensus either in solving the Lower Stubice which he has demeaned or Sisko which he also demeans. Or tomorrow my son will not be given God or any other area. But the people showed unity. As Sinjanin, I am proud that in the hour after the earthquake, we collected two trucks full and that my young people Sinjani wrote Sinj heart of Petrinja and those two trucks were early at dawn, during the night in Petrinja near the INA gas station. That morning people didn't even have bread, and Zagreb is 30 kilometers away. That's what we need to talk about. If we don't learn a lesson and we just call for Homeland Security, the papers we write here, and they're not worth anything, if we have a government decision here, that is. The law that we have passed here on the development of units of local self-government and regional areas of the Republic of Croatia is clearly for the sake of the paper. We've brought two-thirds of Croatia's worst policies to the worst elemental disaster is bad policy. The earthquake exposed all the bad policies that we're leading from national security, stock reserves, system failures from Civil Protection of Unboundness. The Croatian army will react naturally. How will he react when he's in someone's hands with the bugs, the boilers, how will he react? When someone else creates empires beyond what the army should have. And the army will do their job. If anyone does a Croatian soldier, but there has to be a system. After 10 days, I'm glad this Tomislav Bear is a soldier. But with what system does he command? Does he have coordination? He's the one who got Plenkovic out, if anything bad happens, it's Tomislav Bear, I don't know anything about anything. And of course it's very important to repeat again. It is very important to work out a parchment and to draw the best solutions in this respect regarding the homeland security and national security of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28624	I'm asking you again to stick to the weather. We have one replica of the respected representative of Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28625	Dear fellow Bull, of course I agree with everything you've said. And I would certainly like to hear your opinion. Of course, such disasters happen already and we said, thank God rarely, but we have witnessed that our system is not individual islets from firefighters, HGSS, to God thank fans etc. Civil protection as such does not respond to such a terrible crisis. We, as participants of the Homeland War and the commanders of the soldiers, know in a second, in five seconds that's the problem because we're trained. There are 150 to 200,000 of us. Is it natural that there are no institutions in Croatia that these people work on lar gas, that they are not at all on the public scene, that they are unusable and dry gold with their experience.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28626	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28627	Well, yeah, bad policies have come out. The Croatian Army reserve system, the people of the Homeland War who are in the experience of the Homeland War making decisions, unity, community, motivation and knowledge about how to deal with crises as they were in the Homeland War could all have said so. Someone seems to have deliberately broken that system here's, say, a reserve that simply doesn't exist and tries, so the reserves must exist. Civil protection this time has shown that it does not function horizontally from the local committee because there were only some centres where aids were collected, where they were sorted but there were no bases on the ground, there were no checkpoints on the ground to supply people. So neither horizontally nor vertically but simply to the man who was in the Homeland War Commander Tommy Bear this chaos was committed. If things go wrong, it won't be Andrej Plenkovic's fault. Unfortunately, he'll be the man who was at war, the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28628	The next debate will be the respected representative of Damir Bakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28629	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. First of all, I want to say that I welcome the speed and determination that we have set out to make this law. Equally, I think the general direction of the proposed additions to the law is basically positive. In an important position, it comes from the fact that according to the decision on the classification of units of local and regional self-government according to the degree of development, it is about the assisted area, but also more about this because it is about the end and the population who, first and foremost, suffered 5 years of war, and then all of these remaining ones to date, all these 25 years have been systematically neglected, ignored, discouraged in many ways, deprived. There are a few things that this bill makes a solution wrong or inappropriate and I also want to point them out here as a few colleagues. First, I think it is necessary that the town of Sisak be treated as the entire county, therefore as an assisted area, because the city of Sisak itself is not only for the sake of neglect, because of lagging behind, because of the degradation and shut down of industrial activity, because of the depopulation it takes help to carry its leading role in the development of the whole region. Secondly, I believe that the state, in a 100% amount, is taking over the financing of the reconstruction of all public purpose buildings in Sisak-Moslavina County, schools, health institutions, cultural institutions, etc., I stress the 100% amount of all. Thirdly, it is also necessary for the local population, in particular in rural households, also to finance in full the reconstruction of economic facilities, stables and other housing for domestic animals, shadows, etc. We will propose all of these to the appropriate amendments and I urge you to support them. However, with all this and on top of that, it is a key speed. The damage should be resolved not only quickly but urgently. Otherwise, another school year will begin, another winter will come, not only will those who currently had to leave their homes not only return, but many more will leave. But the most important thing is to make it clear that we recognize this whole neighborhood, and especially Bani, for decades, has been systematically neglected, left to ourselves and sentenced to silent dying. Agriculture, industry, municipal infrastructure, roads, almost everything is ruined, and everything is downgraded. Not only has not one of the smallest roads been built in these 26 postwar years, but the entire railway line, which connected Sisak and Karlovac through Petrinja and Gline, has disappeared, has grown into weed and weed. Here near Zagreb, just 1 hour of car distance we allowed 100 km of rail tracks to heal in weeds. And this very railroad and that weed are the paradigms of the relationship not only of the state but of the whole society towards all cities towards Bani and Kordun as a whole. If we needed a moment of awareness, the moment of facing all mistakes and injustices is now that. Now it's time we didn't rebuild this whole neighborhood, not get it back to normal before December 28th, but bring it back to life, now's the chance. In many ways, even the obligation, to restore infrastructure, build roads, rebuild this Sisak-Karlovac railroad, to start economic activities, maybe go there in green transformation, to create preconditions for demographic restoration, to actually restore life. Without it, in houses that may be restored soon will have no one to live for or why. That's why it's necessary for everyone and the government and the institutions and us. We invest the whole society together [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Energy, enthusiasm, all the money we need, and we restore these parts. [[Thank you, we have.../]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28630	... a few replicas, let's not go too far, I have to warn you, that was so much, please. Don't, it's now become, I don't know what came this afternoon, we never had it, people say 15, 20, 25 seconds more, we won't be able to function like that, please. [[Intruder: Please excuse me.]] Stay here we have, we have replicas. He is the first respected representative of Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28631	Thank you very much. I listened carefully to your presentations, and I can tell you that I really agree with most of what you said. In particular, I would like to affirm your wish and where you send a message that it is necessary to restore all economic facilities because, in fact, the restoration of the housing facilities itself without the development of the economy will bring us new problems that you have already warned about and said that we do not actually have any kind of development before this. I would just like to say that the government has formed a working group that needs to be considered that should actually be created and seen one vision of further development of the whole area. And I personally think it's a good move because having a vision of what in that area to develop, how to create assumptions I think it's just as important as restoring the homes of those people who are there. Here, I'm interested in your opinion on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28632	Dear Representative Bakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28633	Thank you very much, thank you very much for your intervention, thank you for mentioning this task force. I know that this task force is at least in, frame already imagined and that it is launched. Part of my presentation was actually a message to that task force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28634	The next replica is the respected representative Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28635	It is good that you mentioned in fact this chronic problem of lack of regional policy that Croatia does not have all these 30 years. Uh, this disaster has made the white man that fact. One more thing has been shown, that Croatia will, in fact, also on this example, see this brilliantly, Croatia does not have 30 years of serious agricultural policy. So two key developmental, developmental levers for rural parts of Croatia do not exist. In a few days, we will discuss the concept of Croatia's development by 2030, this is a great opportunity and a polygon to actually demonstrate Croatia's vision and to work on it consensually together.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28636	Dear Representative Bakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28637	Thank you very much. I absolutely agree, today it was particularly bitter, especially bitter to hear when one of the colleagues mentioned which units of regional self-government, which the county actually supported areas and it was really bitter and almost surreal to hear that it was actually as an assisted area pointed out and Slavonia. So much for agriculture, then, then we have further to say about it. And the other thing you said, so this is an opportunity. Of course it is said and more generally, and it is usually said that every crisis is also an opportunity, but I will say that this is not only an opportunity, but I will repeat it because of a number of spoken and unspeakable circumstances and because of a number of circumstances this is not only an opportunity but to a large extent and the obligations of all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28638	The next individual debate, thank you very much, will be a respected representative of Zeljko Pavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28639	Dear President of the Assembly, colleagues and colleagues, here we are again in the assembly 10 months after the earthquake that struck Zagreb and Krapina-Zagorje County and Zagreb County, and in the meantime there was an earthquake 25 days ago that hit Banovina with damages in other counties and so on in Krapina-Zagorje County, especially in the municipality of Krapina Toplice. We must all admit that so far in the City of Zagreb and in our county not much has been done. The law was passed late, the implementing acts are still under way, the forms we need to fill are still being digitised, unfortunately there are no ministers to help you in some discussions and reflections, but note that despite all of us here in the assembly and because of the representatives of the government and our citizens that thanks to our mayor Kolar and the office in the county as well as the representatives of the government and the state of Krapina-Zagorje County, all the families whose residential facilities were injured in an earthquake 10 months ago, that these families were taken care of in bungalows in the spas of Jezerčica and that they have decent accommodation. But let us not forget that they have lost 10 months of their family peace, 10 months of normal family life, 10 months of the development of their economy, and I believe that all those responsible are aware that it is necessary to start the reconstruction as soon as possible. I would therefore urge the government and the mayors to act as a role model in Krapina-Zagorje County and ensure in other counties and all the victims as much as normal life, normal accommodation and, of course, normal life for these current opportunities. To ensure regular assistance in the form of hygiene and food supplies, as well as financial assistance according to defined criteria and needs. I believe that according to the agreement of Mr. Mayor and Director Vandjelic, the county office of the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje County and Zagreb County will also be opened. Just to mention, this office should be opened in Lower Stubica, so it is not in Gornji but in Lower Stubica 1.2.2021 and all earthquake victims will be provided with expert assistance to meet the requirements for rebuilding the facilities necessary at this point. I would also refer to Mr. Horvat's exposure and point out that there were very few people in this tall home who were not on the ground, who were not on the earthquake of damaged areas, but simply there was no time, time for interviews and photography because the first and primary goal was to help people and to help with the damage recovery that occurred on the facilities. Let me get back to the law a little bit more. Sublegislative acts define 9 renewal requirements that are not easy to fill, and in particular it is not easy to produce all documents required as contributions. And a few hours ago, I sat down with the minister and we determined that the number I said was correct. So it's more than 80 contributions that we need to attach to one document or one request, which is not a small number, but what's actually a problem, and where I see the problem is that these documents are actually documents, and most of these documents can be obtained from the staff's job, this official can access these documents and can be used by the service of all these documents without any major problems, while this is a very big problem for our citizens. And that's why I have to realize that the information in that section really failed. I hope that the situation in Banovina is stable or more stable, that institutions have started to do their job because it is extremely important for the residents and now that they need accommodation and assistance, and it will be important when they start making requests for reconstruction and when it comes to rebuilding itself. I would still take the opportunity to thank all those who have engaged in any way to help the residents of the affected areas and, in accordance with our call for Zagorje, I call on all representatives of the government, representatives of the opposition and positions to put our heads together and help our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28640	This one stays, we have one replica, a respected representative of Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28641	Dear Representative Pavić, in the Homeland War when we recognised the status of Croatian military disableds then officials went to Croatian defenders in hospitals to help them meet their demands. What do you think would be logical now if the Resort Ministry were to refer its officers to the field and explain to the citizens who were killed in the earthquake and help them meet these demands and collect that documentation?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28642	Honorable representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28643	Here I have noted in my presentation that such an initiative has been launched in Krapina-Zagorje County and Mr Vangelić, who has agreed to such an initiative to open the county office of the recovery fund after the earthquake, means for the Krapina-Zagorje County, the City of Zagreb and Zagreb County and there will work people who know or should know how these requirements are met so that our residents will not need to go to other cities or to other counties to meet these requirements. This is of great importance primarily because it will receive assistance in one place, and I hope, in addition, that according to what I talked to the minister today, that one part of the IT services will be launched so that the official who is in that workplace can easily come up with all the documents needed for citizens not to collect these documents.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28644	Thank you very much. The next debate will be a respected representative called Brumnic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28645	Then at first, the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues first, I am sorry that there is no minister here, that there is no Prime Minister who came in the morning and.../incomprehensible/... I would say that I was slapping what he wanted and left. If one day someone will watch the debate on this bill, there will be an interesting discovery. If we had very little talk here about the law itself, that we talked more about the functioning of the state, about the state's response to what the state is actually obliged to do, or why we have it. And now, a little bit of depression to those who have been against the EU, today we are glad to be part of the EU, today we are glad that these people want to help us, today we are glad that they are thinking about us too. But what the question is, what does our country do for its citizens, and how successfully did this country respond to the problems that have arisen? The success of her response to those on the ground, those living in an earthquake - affected area and all the words of ministers and prime ministers that they did a good job, should be instructed only by them. They know best what the state has done and how it reacts, how many ordinary people have responded from the heart and how much they have contributed to repairing the situation there, or making it more bearable for people who have died in that area. But now just a little return what this country did with the law we passed four months and three days ago. The prime minister said when he explained the law, it would all begin within a month. I say it's been four months and three days nothing begins. It was renovated to zero objects, it was handed over to the City of Zagreb according to words yesterday, the day before or yesterday, the day before the minister on the board of 100 applications of 25,000 damaged objects in the City of Zagreb. What this entire time of the past four months has been trying to do is actually create an illusion that something is happening and try to explain to the public that they will get something about HDZ. They won't get anything from HDZ, not a single lip. He will receive from other Croatian citizens who will pay the money into the budget. That's what's true, which is the only truth. If all this that will restore this law would be paid by Croatian citizens other than what we will get, a man would say help from Europe. And now the question is, is this amendment to the law the way we suggest what we should do? I don't think so. There is a key difference between the City of Zagreb because the previous law was actually called the Law on the Reconstruction of Zagreb and what should be done in Sisak, Petrinja, Glina, etc. Sisko's problem, Petrinje, Clay isn't just rebuilding houses. The problem of Sisak, Petrinja, Clay and the whole area has been the continuing neglect of the area by this country for the past 25 years. There without the systematic and full revitalisation of the area, which includes both economic and infrastructure and urban but also what someone says planically, means that we know the deadlines and that we know what we want to achieve. We are not going to do anything because what this law proposes will restore a part of the house as it is proposed even a man would say partly unfairly to one citizen or to different citizens living in the area. I say this law simply has so many phallings as to the integrity that it should include that here, it says it's over.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28646	We have several replicas on your exhibit, the first respected representative of the Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28647	Thank you. So, at the beginning of your presentation, you referred to what is the role and importance of the state, and at the first step we see that the law cannot be implemented, the first step of the submission of the request. And now, instead of having the state set up a way to hand over the motion to file a motion, and then everyone for you is doing all the data that can do the things we've turned upside down. We have complicated the request so strongly that citizens can't hand it over, that they can't collect the documentation at all, and now we're going to have teams to help citizens file for it. And there's now a debate on how good it is for the ministry to organise some outposts. So it's wrong, the request should have been such that it's simple, and those people who do work on behalf of the citizens should have collected all those documents that can be collected publicly and accessible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28648	Dear Representative Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28649	Dear colleagues, Dark Tarritash. I fully agree with you, I have warned as much as possible of something very similar to the Minister on the Committee on Space Planning and suggested that a simple solution model make a diagram of the course of the whole process and let them see what a citizen should do and what the state could do of it. A few colleagues here have said that more than 50% of the documentation required here can be removed in one place by the state administration. And of course there's some paperwork that the citizens themselves will have to attach. But this amount that the legislators predicted is illogical or I feel like they're trying to push the citizens out, that's what they'd say.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28650	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28651	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Brumnic. You said that all the time today we were talking about the functioning or the functioning of the state, do you think that there is a real danger because of this state's failure to function and the complexity of this documentation or obtaining documentation to make what happened after the flood in '64 happen. in Zagreb that some citizens, say, live in Novi Retkovec for 40, 50 years in barracks, so that our citizens in Markushevec don't live in containers so much? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28652	Dear Representative Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28653	A very similar answer to my colleague, Mr. Tarritash, as I said in the end. I have a feeling that the state is trying as much of the citizens as possible to discourage or say push out that they don't apply for this renewal and that's what their HDZ colleagues feel they don't understand what the point of the state is. I once quoted Laibach as saying behind this speaker, which is one Slovenian group that initially says the state takes care of all its people, and then goes on. There is a question of whether someone who manages the state understands what his mission is and how he can carry out the task. I say, all this documentation, or four months of not taking part in Zagreb, actually shows that those who manage Croatia today do not understand it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28654	And the last replica of a respected representative of Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28655	Your Honor. At one point you said that we should talk here or talk about the functioning of state institutions, I need to correct you because we actually need to talk about the non-functioning of these institutions. That's what I'm telling you firsthand because I was right down in Petrinja Tuesday night, and all that worked was those firemen and the police who regulated the traffic, everything else failed, but everything. And it was very difficult to get to a place where help was given, it was very difficult to get information on how to help people, where to go, etc., etc. Besides, I don't know if you're aware of that or if you have that information that the help of the containers from Turkey has come before than the tents from our reserve. It's actually a disaster. In addition, you also heard yesterday's opening of the prime minister, we got full assistance from the Solidarity Fund, came 600 and some million euros, and we now have no way of spending that money normally.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28656	Thank you. Dear Representative Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28657	Dear colleague Pavić. When you say everything didn't work, it didn't really work just one thing, it didn't work the steering part, everything else worked, the M.P. worked, the fire department worked, civil protection worked as hard as it could, as much as it was formed from that steering area in Sisak County, only the steering part didn't work. When you look at what the problem is today, today the key problem is who sets up the system or the controller to set up the system so that it is simple for a citizen to get what we are trying to vote here. I think that here on the left, on the right, and there's no one from the center who doesn't agree that citizens need help, and that's where we all agree, the only question is whether or not someone makes it accessible to citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28658	Thank you very much. The next debate will be respected representatives of Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28659	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In the light of these changes and additions, it is clear that it is from 2017 to 2019. from the area of Bania/Banovina evicted 11.895 inhabitants. If the restoration doesn't start quickly, if we don't get to that job fast, the youth will go away. The age will die. There you have nursing homes that have come to die on your grandfather's homeland and on your fatherland and there they want and they will die, and all youth will go away. The kids will go somewhere else to school, people will go somewhere else to work, and then they'll actually be and there'll be less work to do, you won't have anything to rebuild, you won't have to rebuild for who. Every law is seen from three levels. The first level is the goal and the purpose, the second level is the operationality and the third level are the financial elements of that law. The first level of purpose and purpose, the meaning of this law should therefore be that of law when it comes to the City of Zagreb, where we have elements of rapid recovery, constructive reconstruction and complete renewal. The point of these changes and additions was to make it so in an area now affected by an earthquake. We just have that theory. When you look at operationality, the first programme of measures has been adopted, and the rule has been passed, and now you see that people are freaked out about applying. So let me read, I am today a representative at the City of Zagreb City Assembly, the GSK manages as manager of a lot of buildings in Zagreb and I have come up with information that they are preparing documents to be submitted to the Ministry only for repairs charges 3, 4, 5,000 kuna. I thought it wasn't true, and then I asked a question as a representative and see wonders today I was able to get an answer and the answer says "it's a complex and extensive documentation" and now it's in the hands of the co-owner's decision, z.k. excerpts, building permits, construction solution, useful permits, evidence of ownership, photodocumentation, evidence of damage, various excerpt fees and the like to be collected, checked, completed and submitted to the competent ministry. Since the earthquake damaged a large number of residential buildings under the management of the GSK, the requested documentation is complex. In order to adequately prepare the requirements, it is necessary to provide for further greater engagement, more of our services and departments that significantly exceed the frameworks of regular building maintenance, as well as the level of compensation of managers contracted for regular maintenance. So, by this law, we have achieved that we have put our citizens in a situation that they do not know the application, that they cannot bear it, that someone will do it for them, that someone will charge it, and that it will actually make citizens pay, pay and pay, and 10 months after the earthquake in the City of Zagreb organized reconstruction, according to our prime minister, the systematic and the whole movement, no bricks have been made. What we're saying from this pay phone is cry. Don't do that, don't do Bania, the hair line Banovina, leave for the simple reason, she's been abandoned several times already. The containers are one of the solutions that people aren't out in winter, but if after 10 years. There are containers, containers are the first solution, containers are not permanent accommodation, no, Zagreb is the capital, I live here and in Zagreb people will be able. So in Zagreb, Zagreb and Istria County are two units of local or regional self-government where people come from, where people don't go. It will always be tempting for someone, regardless of what in Zagreb in the Sub-Sljemen zone, so don't experience Zagreb as the center of the city where people live, in the sub-Sljemen area people live in containers. The container is a temporary solution. After half a year or a year in containers, it will turn into another problem. It will turn into a problem that solves Istanbul, it will turn into a number of other things. So, if this country knowingly and deliberately leaves Banija/Banovina absolutely in the way she left Zagreb City for it, someone will have to bear responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28660	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28661	Dear colleagues, Mrak Taritash, I did not arrive in my debate to this fact that the gskg is charging 7,000 kuna for the documentation needed to restore it. It's just that I heard that information from the minister. So it's not that the ministry doesn't know there's a problem, it doesn't solve it. So this state should ban or ask you if you think it should prohibit the KGB from making itself an additional income on the burden of citizens who should restore their homes?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28662	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28663	Thank you very much. My colleague Brumnic, I have no dilemma. So if you put the whole system in a way that no one knows how to meet the requirement, that no one can collect all the documentation then you did it on purpose, it wasn't by accident, then you did it on purpose that everyone actually says how much I can do next no, but Bania or Banovina can't do it. When it came to the City of Zagreb, I heard the same thing, and I thought I heard it wrong, I thought someone misunderstood something and don't be lazy about how I like to get the paper, and I asked for the paper and I got it. Here is the prime minister, and very often mentioned Cvelferija, Cvelferija was 6 settlements, Cvelferija was restored in 13 months. There people were supposed to sign a request, and everything for them was done by the state, and she wrote down houses that you don't want to hear and you don't want to hear how much it cost in the cadastre and the garland. So the state did everything for the people there. These people in Bani to turn them around they don't have 100 or 200 kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28664	The next replicas of the respected representative, Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28665	Here's an update on what you said, and I'm interested in your comment. Not only does it not start the renovation in Zagreb and then expect it to happen in Banja, but even the basic things have not been resolved, meaning the dangers that threaten the lives of people walking around the buildings, today 10 months after the first earthquake and after the second earthquake that has destabilized that building begin to take off 200 tons of heavy roofs from Vukovar 52, which stood there for 10 months. People walked around that building, people in that building live, 2 apartments were evicted, if Zagreb failed, did not resuscitate, so we're not talking about rebuilding, but we're talking about resuscitating those parts of the buildings that threaten pedestrians and those living in the building, then how can we expect this to happen in Banja?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28666	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28667	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Peovic, you and I sat together for a while in the City Assembly and we have a special mayor who parades, promises that million, there a mile, it's like a good day to him, but something to do, no. So Zagreb had problems and we clearly have to say without this earthquake, this earthquake only put all these problems really, showed what they were. I always, really hurt my stomach because someone needs to get killed, that someone needs to get hurt so we remember something to do. So you're talking about a building that's in Vukovar, which is protected from an eminent architect, that I'm not still bothering you here and everything else, that problem of that last one, so that last one, the terrace to call it that, was a problem without an earthquake. And the earthquake just showed the scale of that problem. And nobody took a little finger until the media took a picture of it and got there. Well, that's not the way to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28668	Thank you very much. The next debate will be respected MP Nikolic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28669	Thank you, Vice President. It's exactly 10 months since the devastating earthquake. First we waited for the statist, then we waited for the red sticker and then alternative accommodation. We didn't get any of that. Then we waited for the Law on the Reconstruction of Zagreb to be passed, yet nothing, and all that time we prayed for all the city and state services to bring us the containers. We got them after months of begging, but not those residential but construction, no sanitary knot, no shower, no furniture, no box. A box that should be our new home. Now we're collecting the countless documents needed to rebuild and waiting for the announced minus, 7 below zero to be announced tomorrow by the prognostics. Yes, life in Zagreb is truly beautiful and promising. It's the story of a young family from the Bear Hill. There's more like it. In yesterday's current hour, I asked the Prime Minister if he would send the State Review into the stockpiles because they did not show their readiness, nor were they up to the situation after the earthquake in Zagreb, nor after the earthquake in Petrinja. Many families have lost their roof over their heads. His answer went in the direction of surprise. Which would make Croatia a container warehouse. Either he did not understand the question, or as usual, he asked himself in his own unique way when he was asked wrinkling questions. But today I would still talk about single households that have been affected by this terrible earthquake. They destroyed what little they had. By studying the text of today's proposal, I have not noticed anywhere that the government has offered a long-term solution for single households. Are the containers the last thing these people will be staying in? Doesn't their age deserve a more lasting solution? Soon a year from the earthquake in Zagreb, and as I pointed out at the beginning, people are still in containers. I'm afraid the same fate will welcome singles in Sisak-Moslavina County if something urgent is not done. The government has no plan or long-term quality solution for single households, so that they can spend their age with dignity. Well, you know, Vlado, there's life after container. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28670	The next debate will be the respected representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28671	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here's what I want from my point of view to say about this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the restoration of buildings damaged by an earthquake. The question is how to lead the debate in the first place in view of what we heard today, I decided on a political one given my view of what was happening in the last 20 days since the second earthquake in the past 2020. They say that the earthquake is a sudden and short-term vibration of the ground, it simply does not depend on man, politicians, parties, it happens and it happens in the space that covers the Republic and in history. We have several of them, from Dubrovnik 1667, Virovitica 1757, Zagreb 1888, Imotska krajina 1942, Makarska coast 1962, and 1997. -Ston. And then in 9 months 2, one in Zagreb, the other in Petrinja, Sisak and other settlements. As far as the government is going through, I think this is the only one that's experienced it, perhaps even in the world, in a short time in such two devastating earthquakes. Of course, the residents and the population and everything that determines I am the moment of the earthquake. Which determined it at the moment when we're talking about 28 and 2912. It was determined by this unpredictable nature, human tragedy, 7 lives lost + that girl here in Zagreb, we had a reaction from people and institutions. Now that we have come to that moment of the event, we also have a post-festum event that has entered into the sphere of politics, and then when politics is involved, it is negotiated or discussed the way we are talking today and trying to do what should not be done, to separate the people from the state, from the institutions, because that as a state is special, on one side, and the people are always alone on your side. There was never a state that I often say, so they make space and people, and it's not possible to separate it, and they're critics of whether someone did something the way we imagined we could definitely accept and they're being answered. But what do we have here as a process or an event? So from day one, the media tried exactly what I said, to separate the citizens' reaction on one side and the state's institutions on the other side and speak these were good, and all of this was quickly solved, and that citizen firefighter, a member of civil protection, a member of the red cross, wasn't the same citizen volunteer who came in front of certain groups, and then, of course, the state didn't do its job right. Then there were stories about who cooks better or doesn't cook a meal and who gets everything or doesn't get help and we've been witnessing it for 20 days. Of course, the main one should be found, second time in nine months, it should be the Government of Andrej Plenkovic and, of course, everyone who is the majority in this home, of course means politics should determine the culprit with the help of the opposition that immediately judges in view of their great contribution to the whole situation which should be just. And then we have the debates we have today, so a little party-stricken. We have before us other local elections, when Zagreb was, we had parliamentary elections and there are similar discussions on the same topic, the earthquake in Zagreb, the earthquake in Petrinja and Sisak ahead of certain elections. And then we have the detail that bothered us all, it's Sisak City as an inseparable part and the centre of Sisak-Moslavina County and its status compared to everyone else. And that's where we found the moment why we would fight a political battle or fight with a call from the authorities to try to consensually resolve those recommendations if they exist. And then, of course, this whole thing got involved as part of some sort of opportunity for everyone to point out the way he thought. There were those who spoke of their contribution, I prefer those who do their part, keep quiet, don't take pictures and do what they consider human. I'm grateful to every man I don't know, by phone call I've given five kunas, three kunas as much as he could, and no one can take it away from the people. It's a mistake to say to separate the people from their country because people's reaction has always been appropriate. It was appropriate, and when it came to Zagreb, it was appropriate now. The fact that there are political vultures in certain situations can be done and done. And as for the procedure, if we want Gunja in the way we've had her as the only example we can call on this situation to finish our story with a 250 kuna toilet brush, then we don't need any paper, so we can go to our mothers and see how it ends, and then these special forces come back on the other side, and what you did after 50 or 100 years, they ask you, did you do everything right by law?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28672	Thank you very much. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Bencic. Here you go. Everyone's out of time. Some are extremely strong. Some who have been greatly exceeded I have warned, you do not hold that session, so please calm down. ... Here you go. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28673	Mr. Boric, would you please tell me after these five minutes in which you actually resented the opposition to criticise, nothing in particular may contribute to the fact that this is an unwarranted criticism when yesterday the prime minister was not able to answer my very specific question, how many public purpose buildings have been prepared project documentation for financing from the Solidarity Fund, so for the restoration of buildings in Zagreb from the Solidarity Fund because the entire tranche from the Fund is a settlement, and we don't even have finished project documentation, and we know since the 4th month that we will receive money from that fund. So here I'm asking you because I see you all know how many public purpose buildings are completed and when will the renewal begin?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28674	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28675	My colleague Bencic, I would not underestimate the Prime Minister and his knowledge as you normally do some other colleagues here in the Parliament, I think he knows what he's doing and he has shown and proved and has citizens' trust. As far as these easy solutions of yours are concerned, how long it's been for us to have some paperwork, it's not for the prime minister, it's for the people in charge. If it's a primary school we know who's in charge of the school, we know who's its founder, we know who needs to prepare the paperwork and who needs to apply something somewhere. Don't put everything on the government and that the government should do the paperwork. If it's a matter of ministry and authority over buildings in the healthcare system, you know who's there for what it's responsible for. Maybe in your associations it's not like you're a member so you're doing as you think you should, but preparing it in a very short time, it's not just a snap of your fingers, and we've worked it out. You are the representatives of these easy solutions. There are no easy solutions and this story will last, no matter what it may seem very simple to us. They're not simple things, and they can be as simple as they are in Gunja, so they end up like I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28676	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28677	Mr. Boric seems to be the only reason the HDZ is not going to go to this election as you accuse us of having a political vulture, perhaps HDZ will have reasons not to go to the election at all, not only because of the mayor we saw taking possession of the property, but also because 30 years it looks like it must continue after 30 years in the category in which it is. Since you haven't said anything in five minutes about the law, here, so I'll just remind you to add to your historical introduction about earthquakes, see if Mr. Mohorovic is also in '909. precisely because of the earthquake in Pokuplje, we're going to see that we're going to have some special working groups that might plan what it looks like. And let me tell you how the state dealt, look unlike you today my free speech, so I ask you nicely look at the article. 17th Act on Strategic Stocks... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28678	Comrade Boric, you were quick to warn that someone is exceeding the time And you're going too far. [[Intruder Boric: My six seconds, there was 14.]] Yeah, but you had a minute to talk and you went too far. Don't look at yourself a little, then another one. Here's my colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28679	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague, I don't need to look at your discussions to know what you're about to think and the way you think you're as specific as me, everyone from your angle and looking at a particular situation, I don't need to look at anything to know or hear anything different from what we've been hearing for a long time. So I personally think that a man's abilities sort of determine him in part to keep something behind him and point your finger, we could say here's what you did, you left it in relation to the sea of words that stay in the air in some sort of, in some sort of phonogram and then nothing. So this attempt is to exculpate, i.e. The local self-government separates from the central state or regional part in terms of no more mayors and mayors should not do everything the state should not, and the same is a little bit of this worrying because if it was 30g. It's about 30 years old. local self-government and different authorities and everyone could have contributed to something to make it look better than it looks today.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28680	The next replica of the respected representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28681	Thank you. So, unlike my colleague, Boric, I won't blame you for not saying anything about the law itself. It's clear to me that you can't know anything about matter and substance, and besides, the law itself is hollow enough and empty enough and it won't bring any renewal. I'm sorry that they were representatives of that generation that ruled at the time of the earthquake 100 years ago. She was aware that the earthquake was an opportunity for the state and the city to improve. What you will do as a representative of the HDZ with this law will be reversed by both the City of Zagreb and Sisak-Moslavina County, which was as poor as it was, dominantly because of your rule. The only political vultures Mr. Boric and his representatives are HDZ, especially in that county. And when you say there's someone pointing a finger, so that we can point our finger at your results, wherever you've touched the government there's a burned ground behind you, I mean HDZ, not you personally.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28682	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28683	Comrade Oreshkovic, I don't know why you always get such bad words from us from HDZ, so you don't have any nice words for any of your colleagues here or for any of our actions. Why is it just some evil coming out of your heart coming this way? What's that for? So I don't see that contribution to this debate the way you speak, no. What you've improved now that you've tried to say that we're not doing anything, that the ground is constantly burned behind us, etc.? You've been in politics for a few months, before that, politics has put you in some kind of body, and you've tried politicians there, and now you're saying, now you're saying what's behind you...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28684	The condition to win, is that what you're saying is that you're politically setting up a new commission? Is that a logic? Does that make sense that you're putting all the political people in independent institutions?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28685	Comrade Oreshkovic, don't yell from the scene. You're getting a warning, I'm giving you a reminder by taking away your word. Please, so stop wildling around here, this is HS, what's wrong with you? Here's my colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28686	Well, what I'm gonna say is, she said everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28687	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28688	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representative Boris, you have well touched a subject that is in some way similar to the subject of the covid epidemic. So last month we heard a variety of political burst fires from headquarters, I don't know why they're not talking about that headquarters anymore, why they're not quoting the distinguished Croatian scientists who were on the media every day, I expected them to talk about the earthquake situation. The state has shown its strength and citizens are projecting their security towards the state, which is perfectly logical and this is evident from the public change survey. Apart from the state, a number of volunteers appeared individually, either through associations, the type of fans who showed their proximity and that is something that is extremely important and therefore the combination of individual initiatives and the state's initiative still gave one stability to the earthquake affected area.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28689	Thank you. Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28690	So we are aware that after such a moment that I have described and which makes it in response at that moment, we now have a situation of resuscitating the entire space and trying to form normal living conditions and to continue the processes to restore it as quickly as possible and to get people back to their facilities there. But those who have simple solutions don't pass, if it isn't from today to tomorrow, you haven't done anything. That's how it happened with the epidemic situation, it hasn't been over a month, and we're the best and the worst in Europe, and what I'm saying now is that they were visionaries or, yes, I won't do anything to make sure something happens to us again because it's not all up to the headquarters they wanted to replace, nor the minister they wanted to replace, etc., nor about them, it's not up to them. So let them speak nicely, let them suggest, invite the prime minister to propose solutions, I don't know if I haven't looked at them, they'll probably be, but mostly focus a little bit not now with more from the earthquake are now some other things and the question is what would be if he were mayor of some other option in Sisak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28691	The next replica of the respected representative Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28692	Thank you, Mr. Vice President HS. My colleague Boric, it seems to me that after this debate, I am no longer sure if you have read this law, and this law will greatly determine the future of the inhabitants of Sisak-Moslavina County. So, at one point, you said it was discussed equally after the renewal when we discussed Zagreb and now, it is not discussed equally and cannot be discussed equally because we cannot pull any parallel with the City of Zagreb, Sisak or any other end. For example, only two facts. So the town of Sisak has twice as many unemployed as the average of Croatia, and triple as the City of Zagreb. Sisak-Moslavina County has more than half of the total square kilometers of the unmined area in the Republic of Croatia. No one has talked about it today, 254 km of RH are still undefined, and most of them are in Sisak-Moslavina County, so how can we talk about the same opportunities and conditions?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28693	Thank you. Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28694	My colleague Posavec, yesterday I also listened to your question on the current prime minister here, and I saw that you are already in a political no campaign, you cannot change a colleague from HDZ normally, but you are trying to blacken him in your own way so that you can then create yourself some opportunities. That's how you work with this bill. You're trying to enforce your policy. All right, I'll take it. The Prime Minister said give us the solutions, we'll look at it, if we can agree by consensus let's adopt them and carry out the process further. But what's behind that? We listen here, 10 months in Zagreb nothing happened, 10 months later. Is this all true, is Zagreb the same today as it was 9 or 10 months ago? Nothing happened anywhere. They're all in containers and everybody's living out there somewhere, etc. That's not true. We're doing what can be done, and if we don't need procedures, then say it, it doesn't matter to us, and we don't need any papers, we go after moms.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28695	Thank you very much. The next replica is respected MP Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28696	Dear Representative Boric. I really don't know where you get the right to call volunteers who've been involved in cooking hot meals for the unhappy. If your government had been waiting, they'd have been hungry for days. And instead of being there from day one and taking care of those citizens or at least opening up allowed closed craftsmen, entrepreneurs who have restaurants to help the unhappy, you are now calling out those same volunteers who got involved on the first day, and you after ten, fifteen days. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28697	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28698	Thank you very much. There used to be an institution in Parliament to correct an incorrect quote, Mrs. Nikolic, I don't know where I called it any volunteers. You can give me that moment of my debate or you're in your own kind of desire to create some sort of importance and image where you're big volunteer fans, and we're all kind of stalking them to deal with politicizing. What's that? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28699	My colleague Nikolic, please don't leave town, so at least that's rude.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28700	What you are doing in this House is from a fellow Zekanovic who is shamelessly lying, from some MPs who are without a problem telling the truth, they don't care what is behind it, without any arguments. Here's a minute after the debate, you have to listen that you said something that you didn't say, that would suit them, that they would spread it to the media in a way that, if you had contributed something to it. Oh, please, shame on you, shame on you, whatever you're saying in that way at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28701	A colleague, Nikolic, has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. What's hurt?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28702	He's been injured. In 238, the representative, Boric, utters lies. You can listen to the video and where it will be heard that 20 days of discussion has been conducted who cooks better after the state has taken over the cooking. So you were still talking about it and calling volunteers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28703	So, of course you know it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure or whether someone is telling the truth or not, I can't judge. If I were to judge, it wouldn't be right. And there are often times when lies are spoken from all sides and many people are telling lies, and it is not against the Rules of Procedure, because the Rules of Procedure do not give me the right to judge who is telling the truth, and whoever is not telling the truth, I can think it in myself, etc. That's why you get a warning. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28704	Thank you, Vice President HS. You have well recognised fellow Boric that individual representatives of the opposition are trying to present as if absolutely nothing is wrong with what we are doing and that law we have passed and this proposal that is on the agenda today. It even went to this point to say that these legal solutions want to discourage citizens from applying at all. I think that right now we need to speak out loud and clear to the citizens on the contrary, even if according to the legal solution that is already in force, citizens should participate in the recovery with 20% today, the loud and clear prime minister here has told everyone and this legislative solution and this proposal is going towards the state and covering it if the citizen cannot do so. Therefore, we need to send a clear message to all citizens, all of you affected by these earthquakes, report the state will restore it all and take care of you at the moment you need it most. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28705	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28706	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, we're doing our thing by law and the way we feel we should. I said, there's an example of Gunja and a story after that renovation and what was going on there. If we need stories about wc brushes about 250 kuna or septic pits that cost 70,000 kuna or buildings in which a million kuna was invested, and today they're sold for 15,000 euros after three or 20 years, then let them say that because behind that renovation where there were no funds, where there was no help on the side that you can't give just like that, I'm giving you, obviously, that we have to go through certain procedures and that we need to have some paper to prove that there's a cost and to prove and justify that this cost is really realized. If we don't need anything then let them say it. Let's go in a way that's been done to rebuild Gunja, and then we'll call out later, and then they come back, and then here they ask us again after five years of what you've been doing there. See what they're doing in that area, 25 years back should go 25 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28707	Thank you very much. The next replica is respected MPs Peovic. ... Comrade Boric, please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28708	Well, here you are saying that the opposition divides people from the state, no, HDZ divides people from the state. I'll give you just some examples, so your Damir Vangelic, temporary director of the Zagreb Reconstruction Fund, and the surrounding area has said what is going on with a concrete building that threatens to crash into one of the busiest streets, that this is the problem of owners and tenants, that we have a private property law that has existed for 28 years. Your Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic, is asking why 250 workers of Rafineria Sisak are being fired, has answered that it is a matter of autonomous decision by the company's administration, although the corporation has been in violation of contract items for years. Your mayor Ivo Žinić has bought several apartments and houses while people in the Majeski Poljani have all lost their homes, your Minister Ćorić has threatened the workers of the Rafineria Sisak with criminal charges, not opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28709	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28710	Thank you very much. I'm obviously saying that this rejection of the green-left block of you as the left side of them did not seem to bother them, and you obviously didn't mind that they denied your support, no, because I don't want to look at what you're saying at all because you're politically determined again, no, and you're trying to say it's always someone else's fault, mostly HDZ for everything that happened in this country. Whether in a private company, whether in an earthquake, whether in a flood, whether anything is always sought guilty of who it should be, the Government is us for everything and then we come to those local elections. Is there a mayor of Sisak? There is. What's she doing? I guess he's doing something, right? But why didn't the state make a road on that local board, why didn't the state do it, and so on. You don't understand at all ways who needs to do what in that whole system and why talk about it at all if you don't understand the division of responsibility and who should. But you need Pedro to hang out after this whole situation. We're here for a consensus. If you're going to join can, if we don't have to do it alone. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28711	Thank you, fellow Boric. The next debate will be respected representatives of Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28712	I'll use it right now to replicate, you don't have to call me because I'm just accusing HDZ, and I'm partly out of the green-left block because I've openly criticized the SDP, so don't accuse me of such things. So, to the question of how he intends to revitalise Banija, today the prime minister has answered me that I have no right to do so because I am not from the 6th electoral unit and that this is beyond the topic under discussion. So, what's important here to say is I'm really not from Sisak, nor from Petrinja, nor from Gline, but since 9 months last year, I've been warning of a dangerous deindustrization of that end of unnecessary layoffs that were shared by the workers of Rafineria Sisak where MOL and INA had a very good year and won that there was no need to fire these workers, but then most of the MPs yawned from the opposition and from the ruling party. I'm really not from Petrina, nor from Sisak, nor from Clay, but on the first day we were in the Lower Kukurusari, we were in the Tree Centre in Clay sorting out aid in the Red Cross, we were in villages around Petrinja. And certainly people say the functioning of people on the ground, but it doesn't work for the state. That's what I can only agree with you, but it doesn't share an opposition, but you share society and state with the people. So what was important here to say is real and there I can agree with most HDZ people who said there was no renewal without economic recovery. But when I asked the prime minister how well that renewal would work, he said I wasn't sticking to the subject. I couldn't agree more, so if we're talking about it then we need to talk about dangerous deindustrialisation, about the poverty of the end, and how we're going to change it. So when we talk about workers, when we talk about people in this area, I will often say, and here I will agree with my colleague, Boric, who has come out that even the opposition is sometimes wrong because it's not just some kind of deal under the table and some secret documents that we need to discover, but it's all almost so presently. So we have a memorandum signed in 2018, which is why it really made it possible for Hungary's MOL to drive oil to Hungary, which was very much caused by the power outage in the Sisak Refinery, and ultimately will really lead to the closure of the Sisak Refinery, we have had situations that were quite representative. So, the contract itself with MOL with the Republic of Croatia has been broken several times and there are many reasons why this contract would be questioned, yet your prime minister says there is nothing he can do about it. Therefore, the transformation of business and production of bitumen, the logistics centre, the solar power plant, the construction of the bio-refinery plant and the 4 billion-euro investment in the Refinery of Rijeka, has been announced, none of which of course happened. Croatia has already handed over INA to foreign capital in a huge corruption affair during the SDP, but things continue as if there was no change in government. Before the 2017 local elections Prime Minister Plenkovic said and it was there in Sisak on the ground, that Sisak is his government's priority, and the only thing since then has been the destruction of that city. So I agree with the further revitalisation of the economy, but it cannot be implemented in this context the causes of underdevelopment will not be solved and we can notice that the earthquake is just one of the elements of the misery of that end. All those who were in the May Poles know and see that one or two houses remained standing, those are houses that were new and that were well built, all the other houses were destroyed, which means that it didn't just bring down an earthquake, but it brought down poverty. Poverty is caused precisely by the deindustry of the poverty of the region that continues to be implemented and will not change the fantastic eu funds that are listed as some magical solution because these funds are limited character, limited range and precisely defined functions. So if we're going to revitalize that end Then we should have some politics. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28713	Thank you very much. The next debate will be respected representatives of Rada Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28714	The Honorable Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues. About the law, i.e. On the amendment and addition of the law, I believe that, as well as the position and opposition, we will agree if the principle of equality and the principle of equality of citizens and the principle of equality of the area are respected, so here there are no colleagues from Boric, whose mayor is from which party, and whether Sisak falls out of such concern for the areas that have suffered from the earthquake. But of course we'll agree on other things, so if we're going to respect equality, but also if we're going to respect some of the terms of how we define disaster, and also if it's not just about the restoration, but also about the revitalisation that many here have talked about, the causes shouldn't be repeated, so these causes are because we have poverty there and we see what happened to deindustrization, whether we're going to do the restoration certainly not to restore the situation to 28.12. because then we didn't do anything. But in order to do so at all, we need to meet some preconditions, and these preconditions that we would make or have some assumptions we can doubt what it would look like, today many have talked about it taught by the experience of what happened with Zagreb. So, we all know that Zagreb is not the same as Banija, we respect our citizens who live on the edges of the city, we know that they were killed and we know that they are still in containers and we know that some are still in homes, in some temporary hotel, and so are we going to give people some deadlines? So how do we enforce the law? We'll make a deal about the law, let's say, if we don't agree, you have a majority and the law will vote. Who will guarantee that we will not do as we can, you know that in the fund by June 22nd we must spend the funds we do not yet have collected the documentation. This is about collecting documentation in the City of Zagreb, I believe you're all following at least some of the social measures like this. The earthquake in Zagreb and look at what they write and say to our citizens with a full name and last name, but not trolls. Why do I say what conditions? So, we heard yesterday, we heard yesterday, we heard how many broken buildings there are today, we didn't exactly hear how many agricultural objects we're up against, and the Left Block Club made an amendment, but I want to show you here, so I encourage you to look at it because in our group of those who don't paint, and I would like my colleague Boric to take pictures when he goes to that area like we were there, so there's a group of young people of architects and statisticians who are helping these same people on the ground to fill something like this. Look, do you think it's normal that there's a list of 68 points that a statist has to do or my niece is a young architect, so of course she won't give a sticker because she's responsible, but look at what she's looking for, but it's something very interesting. How is it that in this pattern there is no whether the buildings were restored after the war or not and if we have little then we might have more accurate information as to whether this building that was destroyed was restored, it says here when, when the building was built, it says whether there is, the type of structure, imagine that the person himself knows the correctness of the height, the regularity of the floor, the middle height, the construction of the reconstruction, the number of floors under the ground, above the ground, so the architect and the statist can do it. How long do you think it takes one group of two or four people to make such a list to even get these preconditions so we can start doing something on the ground? How many of these groups will make such first expert assessments, and who will verify those assessments? So, what we're interested in, if we're not going to make it easier for Zagreb to do everything down there, if at this moment before the renovation itself we're not going to build an additional social infrastructure, I don't know why, I'm going to ask Mr. Banozic again, in fact I've already sent him a letter to tell me what in Zagreb military tents in front of the Art Academy, so these heated tents could have been in Sisak, Petrinja and Glina, and maybe people could have come for some additional information, so there's no social infrastructure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28715	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the respected representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28716	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues, Boric and you have opened one topic that is very important to me, which is in fact the complexity of the procedure that is prescribed and the fulfilment of all these documents and requests. The minister was not quite right when I presented this information on the numerous documents required. We all know that in Banovina they live especially in this rural part of the population that are not ordinary or on the Internet, nor on this digital, we were there, and I've visited a lot of places, these people lived quite modestly before this earthquake. How they will fill it all out for me is really not clear to the team anymore that the Petrinjas themselves where they should come out and the documents are currently broken down and many institutions do not function.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28717	I agree with you, we're all legalists here...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28718	Can I give you my word, or will you hold a session?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28719	I'm sorry, I thought that... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28720	Here you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28721	...and save on time. So I hope we're all legalists here and we really don't think we should be doing it without, as it is said, the paper, but we shouldn't be doing it with a lot of paperwork. And you rightly said, many of these people who know what kind of documents they have, does it disprove them that their objects can't be, can't be restored. And if I tell you that it's good that there are self-organized teams, then they're not organized by the state, who are working to help people to write something down at all, but there's going to be Mr. Coric, so I'd like to ask him to take a look at the state of health and what's worse. So, we have to secure some preconditions, where people started to get better from, because they're out there, so they're getting sick from pneumonia, they don't even have basic hygiene conditions, so we're talking about the law, and implementation, and implementation, and care and some picture now that it is. This is where we deal. Please. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28722	The next debate will be the respected representative of Kresimir Ackara.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28723	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished fellow MPs, the adoption of the proposed law enables the implementation of the renewal procedure in Sisak-Moslavina County and the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje County and Zagreb County, which is necessary for the recovery of the damage caused by earthquakes. Since 29 December 2020, when a devastating earthquake occurred in public focus, Sisak-Moslavina County has been justified because it was far the most injured, and unfortunately 7 lives have been lost. A lot less is mentioned Zagreb County and my Velika Gorica. She fortunately had no victims, but the material damage is very great, so it is important for me today to draw attention to this debate about the law that is crucial to us in solving this problem. To date, 851 housing damage has been reported in the large-gore area. 624 chimneys have been renovated, 600 family houses are completely unusable, and 23 family houses are temporarily unusable for housing. They are completely unusable district school and parish church in Dubranec. It is a temporary unusable school sports hall of the Eugen Kumičić elementary school as well as the pride of our Turopolje old town of Lukavec our castle. 6 sacral objects were damaged by it, along with the church mentioned in Dubranca is a temporarily unusable parish church in the center of our Great Gorica Adverbations of the Blessed Virgin Mary as well as the chapel of St. He's seeing in the Marclin. All schools and kindergartens that have suffered minor damage have already been recovered. Due to the rapid intervention of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the first days when it helped Zagreb County with 10 million kunas, and now these days and with 5 million kunas, thanks to which we are ending our citizens' return to their plots in fully equipped assembly houses, we have been able to bear this heavy burden. With this law we, with everything we do as a county and a city and what we have done and what we plan to do, solve the problems completely for 29 families in the area of the city who have lost their safe family homes. We are happy and grateful to God that we have suffered far less than others affected by this devastating earthquake. Thanks to all the citizens, all the humanists for their patience, grateful to all volunteers and humanitarianists of Velika Gorica who immediately took their first hours after the earthquake, visited and collected food for the victims, public fire departments, voluntary fire departments that removed all the dangerous walls and chimneys and were constantly available and services, grateful to the statisticians, town Red Cross, city associations and services, VG Legacy and hotels of Velika Gorica who received everyone from the area of Velika Gorica, the surrounding municipalities of Kravarsko and Populsko, and 30 families from Sisak-Moslavina County who, on that day, lost their homes at the same time. And thank you very much to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the quick assistance we have received and for the one we will receive for this law to adequately accommodate our fellow citizens' safe homes that have been hit by this situation in our settlements of Cerovo Vrh, Dubranac, Gustelnica, Marklin, Ogulinci, Šijakovina, Kozjača, Velika Buna and Mrklin. I end this debate in the hope that the worst behind us, I end this debate in the hope that never again in our life will be so severe an earthquake or such a disaster that we will have to go after people who have lost everything they've created all their lives, look fear in their eyes, and in fact they're not even aware that they've lost everything they've cared about and that they'll probably never be able to recover from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28724	Stay here please we have more replicas on your exhibit. He is the first respected representative of Nina Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28725	Dear counterpart Ackar, you have brought out here data for which most of the Croatian public has no awareness of how much the area of Velika Gorica has suffered towards Sisak-Moslavina County, hundreds of objects we have heard, in your place 29 families without roofing over their heads and even a completely unusable regional school. You used the term disaster yourself. Do you now consider this to be a question to your public in Velika Gorica that the status of the disaster was to be declared and for the area, and does it seem to you that some people in your area who are in a more unfavourable position than those who are only a few kilometers of the air line or perhaps not a mile south, do you consider such a proposal to be just? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28726	Dear Representative Ackar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28727	I thank the honourable representative Rasudiæ, 4.1. we have received a solution that is also in our area, so it was primarily about the Cerovo Vrh and the houses that are on that part means.../incomprehensible/... The high-ranking state of disaster. So we are in this law that was actually voted in September last year, but now, unfortunately, we have come to a situation where we will have to use the benefits of that law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28728	The next is a replica of the respected representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28729	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Ackar, you mentioned Velika Gorica and the mountainous region, should also mention Zaprešić where 81 families were evacuated. We are logically focused on the area of Sisak, Gline, Petrinje there should mention other municipalities that are quite injured like the municipality of Majur, then the Court of the Uni, Croatia Kostanica, therefore this is a problem which, where the earthquake has shed light on some facts which Sisak-Moslavina County sea even before the time of Homeland work. Here I would like to highlight examples of just the municipalities of Croatia Kostanica and the Court of the Union that have made mobile teams to help people whose houses are damaged to fill out these forms. Unfortunately, we've been charged with administration a lot of times, but that's something we can't do without.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28730	Thank you. Dear Representative Ackar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28731	Here, that's right, thank you fellow Cell. You said well, in Zagreb County, more significant damage than Velika Gorica was suffered by the town of Zaprešić, as well as by all the municipalities you mentioned which are part of Zagreb, but also by Sisak-Moslavina County. They are adequately, also, covered by this law, however, this today's exposure was in terms of information to the public because focus is always, of course, where it is most difficult.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28732	The Republic also has a respected representative, Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28733	Dear fellow, I would be interested in what you think about the criteria of the development index relating to assisted areas and which will also be a criterion that, in addition to whether disaster has been declared in that place, determine whether areas, large-scale areas will be restored 100% because you said here, we fall under this new law, since there is a disaster, but there is no development index for all of that area below average. Do you then feel that certain areas are discriminated against by those that will be renewed 100% and what do you think should be done on this issue given that you are fighting for the end?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28734	Agent Ackar's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28735	Here, I would like to thank the distinguished representative and colleague Selak Rasdic. When we talk about the Index of Development, it is always when we participate in European funds, Velika Gorica has a very high index of development and we are always in a percentage of 20, 30% in rural development and in any other fund, which is actually just because the square of the apartment in Velika Gorica and in Velika Gorica the renovated house is not equal to the square of the apartment in Glina or surrounding settlements. So, what a man who actually cares about the end plans to do, we plan to do and completely rebuild the houses, regardless of the development index, and all the resources we get, means we need to be aware that in Velika Gorica is the smallest number of these damaged houses, so that Velika Gorica can endure with her budget to restore fully regardless of anyone's help exactly that house. That's why, I say, which, hand to heart, let's be honest is a small number of these houses.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28736	And the last replica of the respected advocates, Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28737	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Agent Ackar. You have rightly drawn attention to the town of Velika Gorica, but also other areas in Zagreb County that died in this earthquake. If we remember the earthquake in March, it certainly is the consequences we will have for a long time. But you also stressed something that is particularly important to underline once again, and that is that at that difficult moment for you, your volunteers, especially firefighters, have shown solidarity with people in my county who have been badly affected by the earthquake, and I thank you this way as one of the leaders in the town of Velika Gorica, but also to everyone, not only from the town of Velika Gorica but I have been in contact with your county fire department who has been tirelessly sending teams every day and, of course, firemen from all over Croatia who have helped us very, very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28738	Representative Ackar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28739	Here, thank you, fellow Petyr. Indeed, half of our teams worked in Sisak-Moslavina County, surrounding municipalities, and half in our area. Absolutely aware that we and much more developed city, much richer, and that we have much less damage than other cities, we have also directed towards Sisak-Moslavina County in a few days after the earthquake and 200 thousand kuna of support, as we received from the municipalities of Kravarski and Popusko to our hotels absolutely all the families that have lost their roof over their heads and, as I have already said in speech, 30 families from Sisak-Moslavina County.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28740	Thank you very much. The next debate will be respected representatives of Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28741	I'm going to start with what we've been discussing for a little while because I think it shows a taste of the problems and inequalities that this law brings before us and everything that will come out of it in practice. So, the law clearly states, the law on which these changes are being made and complemented, that the Republic of Croatia in the state budget will be 60%, cities and counties at 20%, and owners, i.e. co-owners of a property of 20% rebuild property affected by an earthquake. Now we could hear the promise that Great Gorica would do it instead of his fellow citizens. Is that contrary to the law? If the law stipulates that citizens themselves are participating 20%, will each county now have its own criteria, will each local self-government unit have its own criteria? That is one question, and I would now conclude that debate that has led to the problem with this whole law, which is how to bring social justice into line and make a law that will be legally sustainable. When I asked the question of the Upper Stubica, I was mortally serious because this question pointed to what should be our basic task, which is to create a legislative framework that will not be brought down by the first constitutional suit, so I also warned of discrimination in the existing bill that treats different assisted areas that are the same development index. What is important to say is that the legislator was aware that this was not a coincidence because if he were not aware of it, he would not have introduced one perfidious provision, an addition inserted into a sentence that says, in assisted areas, a 100% reconstruction will be financed, and in which disaster has been declared. I suppose the legislator thought it would not open the development index and see that there were assisted areas affected by a previous earthquake that had not been declared a disaster so that it would not come to the question, but in case it did, he kept himself. At the moment we opened the issue of equality of assisted areas, it was also a question of sustainability of that development index, which is the basic criterion for the establishment of this law, we did not get an answer. If we're going to talk about a disaster, I'm going to remind you that disaster is not something we're arbitraryly thinking about, that disaster is something defined by the Civil Protection System Act. 3., and says "a disaster is a situation caused by a natural or technical technological event which, by its scope, intensity and unexpectedness, threatens the health and lives of a larger number of people, property of greater value and the environment, whose creation cannot be prevented or consequences removed by the operation of all the operational forces of the civil protection system, the area and regional self-government in which the event occurred, and the consequences of terrorism and war action". So the only criterion for declaring disaster is the way civil protection has responded on the ground to this disaster, and we are well aware that our civil protection system is falling apart. And how then we will be able to answer that we should have declared here a disaster and based on what additional criteria are not prescribed by law, and in March last year we should not have declared that same disaster. I remind you, we are a legislative body, we need to be careful that what we impose and what we vote on is legally enforceable. What I would like to conclude in that sense is that we will submit an amendment to that famous article. 5. We will try to unite all and supported areas and areas of particular geostrategic interest and property, which are owned by citizens of poorer social status because it is the only criterion that will be legally enforceable, but also fair in relation to the standard of our citizens. What I am going to conclude with this debate is that I will remind myself that we have already proposed a strategy Monday, a guideline for the Banovina Reconstruction Strategy, because we need to offer solutions to citizens, and the law is not a solution, the law is just the beginning. And this thing, something needs to teach us this whole case that it is not enough to act reactively, that we should work on prevention, look at what is happening to all of Croatia that is in a seismically unrestrained area and strengthen it before another disaster happens to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28742	Thank you. We have two replicas, three pardons, the first respected representative of Rasputic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28743	Dear MPs, what is missing from sight is the difference between the construction reconstruction and the complete restoration of the facilities, we see that the problem has arisen in Zagreb. Let's say today, Professor. Josip Galić of the Faculty of Architecture in Zagreb estimates that only 95%, 95% of the people in Zagreb will not apply for renewal at all, because it is estimated that the construction reconstruction is only 1/5 on average of the cost of total renewal, so it is not 80% that is obtained from the state and the city but it is 16% on average and then it turns out that people are cheaper and easier to recover in the centre of Zagreb as much as they can than enter that investment where 84% have to invent it on their own, and according to Galic's assessment, 95% of these funds are not available. How do you see this relationship between construction reconstruction and complete renewal, and where do you see a fair legal solution?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28744	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28745	I think that citizens in terms of this law that is presented as Deus ex machina are what should have been for Zagreb, and we see by the number of reports that it did not happen, and especially now in this area which has been affected in all other ways, and the earthquake has only potentiated and revealed the devastation of that area at which no appropriate attention has ever been turned before, and now only in the context of patriotism is mentioned when the holes in the law should be justified, which is pure pulsism. Citizens have no idea that they will not get the key in their hands, that their homes will not really be restored, but that it is really just a construction reconstruction that is often only a small part of the restoration as the teachers have warned correctly. In that sense, we have submitted an amendment that requires that citizens of poorer property status be provided with a complete, complete renewal because if we have a social criterion then we need to have a real social criterion, not pretend that we have it for the needs of the media.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28746	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28747	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representatives Selak Rasdic, I agree with you in the part where you said that we act reactively many times, and there is Sisak-Moslavina County, in fact with unfortunately the earthquake, showed all its problems in full light. Unfortunately, in the area of the City of Zagreb in these parts, for example in Podsljeme which is like an elite quarter, you have parts where there are no water lines and sewers at all, but this can of course not be compared to the conditions in the Sisak-Moslavina County area. I agree with you that social justice should also be taken into account, but I think that still social criteria if we look at the indices of development will always be kind of discriminated against, but these social criteria where the property and income censorship are monitored and the question of persons with disabilities HRI, so it is likely that someone will be cut off, but here I hope that during the debate all those concrete proposals will be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28748	Thank you. Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28749	I hope that our constructive proposals will be accepted. If taken as the basic criterion of the development index, and it is heard by the resolute minister and by the prime minister himself that this development index is missing. Likewise, if we are talking about the plight of the Homeland War being a criterion, and we have not implemented it in the law, then it is about an unqualityly prepared legislative proposal and our arbitraryness, criteria that are not legally defined, which we are politically hitting here. I'll remind you that our basic task is to create a sustainable legal framework and I'm mortally as serious as the rest of the club. It's not a question of what we think should be a criterion. Ladies and gentlemen, you have proposed this legislative framework. If you wanted to take special care of the area of casualties in the Homeland War, why didn't you propose that criterion within this legislative framework?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28750	And the last replica is the respected advocates of Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28751	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Selak Rasudiæ when you spoke about being very often reactively reacting can agree with you, but I would say that in this case something has been done long before, which is that the Banovina project is included in the Government's programme with the aim of revitalising the area as well as some other areas that have indeed been affected by the depopulation and have been poorly developed. Also last September, we are as representatives of the new assembly, all representatives of the 6th electoral unit invited by the local action group of Una that together with experts, with scientists and local self-government in the whole area we are considering a strategy for the next 10 years for this area. We responded only to my colleague Bosnjakovic and me. There's what people want, they put it on 10 pages through tips, we don't have to do to them any strategies or guidelines but listen to what they need to do and start to realize it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28752	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28753	I'll agree with exactly this last thing you said, that you should start to realize it. You are part of the ruling majority and are responsible for what has not already been realized. If you really cared about the assisted areas, then you would not be boasting here by starting some strategies of revitalisation and certain documents but by telling me about the statistical results of what you have achieved so far, or this whole law would not have been passed in this way because these areas that are of particular and geostrategic and historical interest because of the Homeland War for Croatia would have been no longer supported. However, I still think that such initiatives, because it is never too late, should continue to be supported and must not remain a dead letter on paper like they were boredom for which you in the ruling majority have been in power for some time now, if not for some decades, share your responsibilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28754	The next debate will be a respected representative of Nina Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28755	My fellow Members and fellow MPs, the Honorable Chairman, when, at present, it's obvious that it's fast-tracked and passed a law that we didn't support, we're left with abstention, I'm talking about the Law to restore the law, when it's equidistant in an equally creamy way, then we come up with a classification of earthquake-affected areas that reminds the legendary Borhes Chinese encyclopedia in which different classification principles are puzzled in a comic way. In this case, we have areas of PKK, NPK, PNK, NPNK, where P would be assisted areas, and K would be areas where the disaster situation was declared. There are problematic situations in each of these classification groups. Therefore, the PK-supported areas of disaster would be the area of for example Petrinja and Gline. The NPK would be an area that is not an assisted area, and the disaster situation has been declared a situation in Sisak. The PNC would be an assisted area where the disaster situation has not been declared. Here we have these situations that can lead to constitutional lawsuits such as the case of Gornja Stubice, who died in the same category as Petrinja, but because of the fact that it is not an assisted area, its citizens will be discriminated against against the citizens of Petrinja, for example, because Gornja Stubica is located in the Krapina-Zagorje County, which the legislators have missed in this bill. So the area was supported, and no disaster was declared. In the end, NPNK is not an assisted area, no disaster has been declared there is the City of Zagreb. When it comes to the City of Zagreb, we have run polemics here because it is mistakenly perceived in part of the public that these are apartments in one of the most expensive locations perhaps with Dubrovnik and Split in Croatia, it is the historic center of the City of Zagreb, Donji City, that these are some rich people, that there are like people who have more apartments, some of them rent via Airbnba, and now why Croatian poor people and tenants from all over Croatia, from the Zagreb suburbs, would set out to rebuild their apartments. But the situation isn't that simple, and I'm going to repeat what I'm saying is only a construction reconstruction of approximately 16%, and we see most of the people, it's very clear because how few renewal requirements have been filed at all, that 84% of people have to do so themselves, so they'd rather cover up a little bit how much they get and live in such apartments, in such buildings. But this is not just the center of Zagreb, very little mention is made of the Medvedski breg, Čučerjevjev, Markuševec and other areas which, where the situation is very similar, much more similar to one Petrinja than the situation in the center of Zagreb where the location of the rent is nevertheless such that they can be sold and bought new properties somewhere in the suburbs. So they still have a broader possibility for people to act. What can lead to a fair solution in all this classification confusion of the PKK or the KP resulting from legal proposals is an asset censorship which is the most just criterion because we also have in the area of Sisak of very wealthy people. The truth is very few, most live hard, but there is no reason for someone from like or Slavonia who is on the border of emigrating wages to be restored to someone who is benevolent. In that sense, I repeat, although there are very few, the property census would be the most just criterion, with the mentioned criteria of geostrategic interest specific to some areas and criteria that we already have supported areas but which are not applied as a whole we see on this legislative proposal. What's most important is to pick up the industry and the economy in a hurry. So, help companies that are there on the ground and what wonders why they are not already included, why those meals that can cover the caterers from Sisak-Moslavina County at the same price...at the same price that Plekler offers why they do not do so, and Plekler additionally fills what they cannot produce from meals now. Also, when I talk about economic recovery, the key thing is a smart tax relief policy, which would attract investment in this area and beyond the county and perhaps even outside Croatia. Because first, there must be people and a sustainable life and then buildings. Because we don't need empty buildings that we're going to renovate public money and sell as cottages tomorrow for a few thousand euros.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28756	Thank you very much. He's the first respected representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28757	Thank you very much. A fellow I will tear apart my young Sinjani, whom I called within an hour of the earthquake, collected 20 tons of food and supplies that were in Petrinja the same evening. He gave his heart for Petrinja. But like other ends, it's a problem if we don't have a crackdown on this now, a system of homeland security that's not coordinated. We have a Croatian soldier who is the pride of the Croatian state, who is in much more difficult crises and much more difficult circumstances such as the Homeland War and the fight for freedom. Now civil protection simply doesn't work except for Mr. Trutt, who with rank, I don't know what those acts are, a nice suit dressed, boots, the most expensive American and sunglasses giving a lecture. The system's not working. The prime minister today did not respond to whether a parchment was made, and what are the mistakes of homeland security in future threats.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28758	Thank you very much. The reply of the respected representative Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28759	The Prime Minister here is going to start with the last one, and today he has said one lie not to use a more difficult word when he said you're just criticizing, not offering any solution, and you know that on Monday we had a presentation of the full guidelines of strategic renewal of Banovina where we worked these few weeks and with urbanists and economists and sociologists and lawyers to get to that solution. A heart test like I've already said is a position. Croatia has shown a great heart and has shown what is being organised spontaneously from below that works great. However, the stage is now clearly over. There's now a test of reason and institutions. We need to set things on a healthy basis. He's got a positive example. I'll only mention a Gemonum town in Furlania where a 6.5 earthquake killed 990 people in 1976, and 40,000 people were displaced. After five years, everyone was returned, no trace of the Gemona earthquake was found. And we have in the south of Italy situations where people are in containers and decades after the earthquake. So it can depend on us anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28760	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28761	Comrade Rasdic, this law has overlooked and skipped one important issue and I have not noticed that none of the ruling structures have so far looked back on it. The region is largely populated by Croats from BiH. Their property-legal status has not been resolved, and at this point with this refurbishment that is moving, I'm afraid that he will be further complicated by putting it under the rug. What is the problem with the property status of the Croats displaced from BiH in the area and what should be done?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28762	Your Honor, Sergeant Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28763	This situation can now be an opportunity to solve the big problems that existed before 29.12 because there's no situation for us to say a little less than a month ago was good there, now it's bad. No, it was really bad a month ago, and now it's catastrophic. We have Croats from BiH who have been inhabited there for over 20 years, called, living in some kind of captivity legal property because they can't get gifts or the purchase of property they live in. They could not, for example, apply to energy recovery because the properties were not theirs, nor could they do anything on these properties. Now, although the state has a state-owned property company, it has never established in Sisak-Moslavina County a register of these properties. Now they're offered some kind of gift list, to find some real estate, but how will they know when there's no register of these properties that are at all usable. So this is an opportunity for both these people, the Croats who have moved from BiH and the property-legal problems they have. It's hundreds of cases, literally hundreds of cases to solve, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28764	Thank you very much. The next debate will be respected representatives of Dalia Oreskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28765	Honored Chairman, fellow MPs and MPs. Here we can now include among the successes of HDZ authorities that one of these same natural disasters has managed to make constitutionally unequal for the citizens affected. So one state is going to rebuild something by 80%, the other by 100% whether it's a construction or a full recovery. In doing so, it is also very insidious that no one has explained to the citizens what traps they can fall into and what construction reconstruction actually means. So in the area affected by the Zagreb earthquake on private facilities, the state will rebuild by 80% of the share of the so-called. construction reconstruction. And that restoration is about a third of the total cost of the necessary works so that the apartment can be considered similar to that of life. The remaining two-thirds will be renewed with their own money by owners, even those who are social cases where the state will restore 100% of the construction reconstruction. Therefore, the citizens damaged in the Zagreb earthquake will not be able to restore their private spaces in a way that is 100% of the total renewal, so it should be emphasized that construction reconstruction is a rough construction level, and in the course of doing these works they will have to move out of these properties not only them but also valuable things they have, and when they return to their apartment they will have to do additional work that will cost them greatly. So the apartment will certainly be safer, which will make it more valuable. But I'm interested in who's going to have so much courage and then tell the citizens, especially those residents who have quite a lot in the center, that, for example, 50 squares, they're going to need tens and tens of thousands of kunas to have their apartment re-inhabitable after construction and to explain to someone who's in the social category that only after construction renovations will they be exposed to a variety of buying-outs, because they themselves won't be able to secure the funds to bring the apartment back to its original state. And instead of a renovation that, as we suggested, whenever it was possible to insist on the added value of the building through investment shares, for example by adding one or two new floors, which would make the investor obliged to co-owners of the building to complete the renovation with the city's supervision, but without the state having to finance it because there would be no need for it then, we had a populist competition when we were throwing ourselves at the percentages as if something bad was dividing. No, this is all paid by taxpayers' funds and we can even consider it to be these funds that will be returned from EU funds. The centre said by then that such a situation is unsustainable and inexplicable, that this is why the City of Zagreb will not be restored in the next 15 years, and now for 10 months it is seen that it is exactly the same. In Zagreb, not only is there not yet any renovation, but most of the buildings will be seen only from the inside, we will change the building from the outside with a new layer of façade and then we will all act crazy and claim that everything is right in the City of Zagreb. We're going to have a wonderful renovation of such a city. Although equally unresistant to earthquakes as it was before 22 March 2020. But the confusion of the public and the inequality of the restoration continue. After the petrin earthquake, it was realized that the area could not only be offered construction reconstruction because in this case everyone would move out of the end of it, and they were already deceived in what was called after the war, so they were promised a 100% renewal. Of course, such a restoration will not be possible because it is simply impossible. Many of the damaged houses were semi - inhabited, and some of them were incomplete even before the earthquake, many had locks in which the floor was uninhabitable at all, and now instead of torn down pre-named and semi - inhabited houses often the owners would be built smaller houses. So, up to the level of inhabitability, but not what they used to have, not in their previous capacities. And now if we take the situation that someone in Zagreb will get an inexplicable apartment after construction renewal, and someone in Petrinja a habitable house, it is clear that this situation will create a space of broad manipulation and create an additional inequality among the citizens, but obviously the inequality and injustice of HDZ is very fond of it. Furthermore, the petrin earthquake has hit part of Zagreb's county whose citizens would like to get the same status as those of Petrinski. So now I'm wondering if we're going to add another provision on this law that we're not going to share within one of these same structures. the criteria of whether they are a Zagreb or a petri dish. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28766	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the respected representative of Davor Naji.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28767	Thank you, Vice President. This way, since the first reading of the Law on Reconstruction, since we started to actually pass the initial law, the Focus Party has been only clear against such a bad law on restoration. The reasons for this are numerous, not to solve the problem of the restorer, to collect works and to prevent the strengthening of objects to a level that could suffer stronger earthquakes in the future, so that this does not solve property-legal problems that, in many cases, have led to such a situation, so that such a law is realistically discriminatory and deeply unfair. We find the law unfair because we do not see a valid reason for taxpayers, for taxpayers, including those who are tenants to finance the restoration of property to someone who has, for example, 3 business spaces in the city center or 5 apartments at sea. Now all those who consciously maintained their properties and paid for insurance turned out to be naive, and the question arises why would more people in Croatia pay insurance than any major natural disaster. But there's no end to the absurdities of this law either. This law provides for such a complicated process of refurbishing, so the collection of documentation and the rest of it for citizens to lose themselves in the forest of the administration. Let's remind ourselves of people who don't have a roof over their heads. And the question is, how can we believe that a robbery won't happen on this one? How do we know that it will not be applied, for example, to the hot model of the selection of contractors or Žinić's models of construction and housing or Bandic's models of assembling the cost of what we had opportunity to see in the construction of the cableway? But in the end, the most important fact that almost a year since the Zagreb earthquake, there is no real recovery. Will the population of Sisak-Moslavina County wait as long? It might happen a little cosmetics before the local elections, but it's gonna be real. I would remind you that when the debate began in the first reading of this law, then the Focus Party called us ugly names such as the Empathic Noalids, etc., unfortunately now it shows from day to day that we were right when we warned that the law was bad in which through the second reading we were joined by other representatives. Then we warned what would happen and unfortunately we were right. So now I appeal once again, lift this law and pass a new law that will apply to all citizens equally in the case of all natural disasters, and where the aid criterion will be the property status of the owner of the property, not geographical accommodation, the degree of development of the area or any other arbitrary combination of the criteria of the ruling. The state needs to restore public infrastructure, that is clear, but private property should have a property status criterion. Furthermore, the people whose homes have been torn down have no longer time to wait for years to rebuild. Therefore, once again, we suggest that, urgently, Croatia's Bank for Reconstruction and Development be granted unambiguous refurbishment loans that could be granted to citizens themselves, to whom citizens could literally start to rebuild tomorrow themselves, and during the renovation, it will determine who is the good asset so that the credit can be paid, and who is poor and that the credit is forgiven? Otherwise, it will take decades to rebuild the state, some of the money will disappear again through suspicious acquisitions, and the future generations will remain tens of billions of kunas of a new debt, a debt that will turn into additional tax pressure in the future that will reduce the competitiveness of the economy, which will hamper wage growth and result in continued emigration of young people. Let's not be naive, HDZ is currently not considering what long-term consequences this law will have, so there is no fiscal impact assessment either. Right now, they just need to buy votes for local elections, and they don't ask for the price. But it doesn't have to be that way. Although it's been lost a long time, it's not too late to accept our proposals, but it has to be a new law. This law no longer makes sense, and the Focus Party will vote against this law. Finally, given that there were a lot of mentions of assisted areas, it would also refer to the part where I would point out that if these areas really want to allow for development, some red tape should be removed from the path, and more favourable tax conditions should be created, that is the only way, so new jobs to improve the demographic image of these regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28768	We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28769	Thank you. My colleague, you said one thing incorrectly. It is not true that you were the only one against, we were also like the club and the centre party and the party GLAS clearly said since the first reading why we did not support this law, why he was bad, and we also offered our solutions that were realistic, which did not go after new credit borrowing citizens but went into an investment cycle that allowed the city to be completely restored, so citizens would get new, safer and better properties without being costing them anything. The state only needed to predict a good model which unfortunately did not have hearing for it. I also want to say that our proposals and solutions are very responsible and very social. We believe that the state must play a role as a social factor and a solidarity factor here, but it must give the citizens affected in both earthquakes the same value criteria. We must also have developed criteria in the event of any disaster of a similar character throughout Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28770	The answer of the esteemed representative Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28771	Dear counterpart Oreskovic, if I recall correctly, was the only representative in the first reading who voted against Dario Zurovec, with abstentions. In the second reading, I think you were against it, too, which I'm glad. I must admit that your proposals are much closer to both what we advocate and that they are actually a far, far better solution than what is the ruling majority together with, if I am not mistaken, the SDP and we can vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28772	The next replica of the respected representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28773	Thank you. Your Honor, I don't know if when you mention insurance, are you aware of how past insurance companies that secured their cars from, for example, the fall of parts of buildings on their cars after the earthquake and that their insurance didn't pay off because they agreed to find a legal toothpick to get out of that situation and say it wasn't worth it in case of an earthquake? Secondly, do you know how to list, now I'm really asking you to name one, one insurance that is provided by the earthquakes in Zagreb and this part of Croatia? So I'm gonna go now, because I'm gonna buy an apartment from '65. And I'm going to secure it, where I'm going to secure it, and what is the premium for such insurance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28774	So, as far as car insurance is concerned, I thought we were talking insurance here. Renovating real estate, not buying new cars. As far as insurance companies are concerned, I'm not a sales representative of insurance companies so I don't know about their offers, but on social networks, many have said that they have, they have, they've got some damages, some have had problems with it, that's a fact, that's also the part that the rule of law has to solve. So here I think, that there are definitely insurance companies on the market that, therefore, fulfill that function as they should.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28775	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Silvan Hrelje.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28776	Dear fellow Find, and look it's nice to liberalize things, it's nice to set certain parameters, but this is a disaster. This is a disaster, this is, here you have to diagnose the problem, you have to find solutions. So no law is ideal here. All laws should be corrected from time to time. I have nothing personal against your censorship of property that you have set up, but you tell me, I was in that area, you tell me what we're going to do with the center of Petrinja, the center of the Gline and the old part of the town of Sisak? Look, those people who live in that part that's completely destroyed don't have the means to repair it, and we can just choose to give up our cultural heritage, our very valuable heritage, or are we going to fix it? You understand, so it's not all about norms, it has a life.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28777	Your Honor, I want you to find out.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28778	My colleague, I understand your point of view, but it should be borne in mind that the same thing was said after the Zagreb earthquake, and here it is now, and 10 months has not yet begun. So if we had reached a legal solution that would allow citizens to finance it, that reconstruction would have already been in full swing, some buildings would have probably already been completed. Of course, the state needs to rebuild that part of public infrastructure, which I fully agree with, so schools, hospitals and so forth, that part needs to be taken over by the state. For those of you who can't really afford to rebuild that part should take over the state, but I don't see the point in being that if there's a person who has, I cartoon, 5 apartments at sea to give her, that people are paying her to rebuild real estate that she doesn't need to live.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28779	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Sandra Bencic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28780	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, when we were working on a legislative framework for restoration, what was the basic goal was to guarantee to the citizens, so that the state and the city of Zagreb, as well as the counties of others affected by the earthquake, would participate in this reconstruction in a significant financial part, and that all those whose income is below a certain limit would be guaranteed 100 percent of the financing of the construction reconstruction for the reasons that we know that, for economic and social reasons, they cannot do so. That's what the key is. Everything else is in play. Implementation is regulated by the Government. And now what has been shown to us in these few months of implementation of the Rehabilitation Act? It has shown that we have entered this process unprepared, that we have not even prepared a project documentation for the Solidarity Fund that we know is coming to us that we will receive these money and that we have not set up processes and procedures in a way that an unequivocal response to citizens when they call and ask can be given. You know that, because you, along with Mr. Uhlir and Mr. Evangelich, end up alone and on social networks, give answers to the citizens, and these answers are often not uniform. Why? Because they're not in the details of the procedures. Procedures have not been elaborated, and for the reason that the earthquake has exposed actually legislative obstacles, collations from different regulations that now create for you, of course, these implementation problems. But what's my biggest concern? My biggest concern is when I hear that after all this experience we have with Zagreb where absolutely nothing has been restored in 10 months, when I hear these big messages that HDZ sends to Bani, the same Bani where they were only interested in resources for 30 years. And these resources that were banishly hijacked by the Baniians and did not return to them in the form of investments, so that they ended up as the second least developed county in Croatia were forest resources, we have thousands of complaints from citizens on the overcut of the forest. The exploration of hydrocarbon exploitation, the concessions were high for that area last year, and these research do not give anything to the local community and the exploitation of hydrocarbons just takes away from them and I'm very interested in how we're going to get out of these contracts now when it's actually seen that the soil is unstable after the earthquakes that have occurred and that there have been significant changes in the soil that occurred after the earthquake. And there's also HDZ right over there, and it's where it's exactly where it's going to pick a place where it's going to store radio active waste. So that's the vision HDZ had for Bania. We're going to take the resources, they're going to put radio-active waste there, and now we should believe that's exactly the party that's going to revitalize that area. Don't be angry, but I just don't believe it. So, about the ability to rebuild, so we see everything, so on this very example of HDZ and their partners Milan Bandic. So we still have 50 families in Chucher who only sleep in containers 10 months after the earthquake. We have 200 people in the hostel located all over the family in a hostel room that could not be rented an apartment in the Zagreb area, but could be donated houses and apartments to the mayor that I hear is no longer the mayor of a few minutes ago, Mr. Žinić. So what is a key issue is how to ensure a rapid, efficient and sustainable revitalisation of these areas affected by the earthquake. And that's where I'll agree with that, that's what we've said before. Give people a way to secure at least the resources for people to just rebuild. Let's go over HBOR and give them non-chamber credit lines for rebuilding and closing people's loans to 60% of the state, 20% of the city. According to reports received from supervisory authorities, supervision of construction immediately gives you both documentation and you close people's credits in those ratios where you get eligible costs. It would speed up the whole procedure so much, and it would reduce your entire administration. So I also have to ask here where is the Civil Protection Fund? Five years ago, you made a commitment to establishing a Civil Protection Fund for exactly this kind of damage. Where's that fund? [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28781	We have a few replicas. The first is the distinguished representative Katica Glamuzina.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28782	Thank you. I'll refer to my colleagues, Bencic, at the beginning of your presentation. Is it very clear that the state will fund the reconstruction for everyone in a hundred percent?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28783	Thank you. Yes, it is not clear and it is not clear why it is said that the state in one article, so Article 5 is said that the state will reserve 100 per cent of the funds for those who meet the condition that the assisted area is and that disaster has been declared in that area, which is both debated because it is not known whether the area as a county or an area of local self-government may be different from Sisak and we are not saying that the decision to declare a disaster is a government decision over which Parliament has no control as well as citizens, and it is a discretionary assessment of the Government. So that's one part of the problem. The second part of the problem is that Article 7 states that by a decision later on, when damages are made, the government will make additional criteria on the basis of which it will decide to write off payment obligations. This means that the government leaves itself room to prescribe the criteria for whom it will not co-finance 100%, but for some reason it is not clearly communicated Publicly. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28784	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28785	Comrade Bencic, I'm using this microphone to correct an incorrect quote. It is not true that the reconstruction in Zagreb has not passed or started. The reconstruction has already begun because otherwise the citizens of the City of Zagreb would freeze without chimneys, without roofs and without everything, but it started with the funds of the reserve, with the resources of the citizens, with their initiative. It didn't start with you can start in part of what's supposed to be destroyed, which had a red sticker, which was a static threat to the facility or that it was dangerous for the apartment. But citizens have spent a lot of money through their reserves to repair the roof, chimneys so they can warm up so that they can live as decently in Zagreb and they need to take off their hat. It is only necessary to say the following, the reserve as it was in Zagreb in Glina is gone, in Petrinja is gone, in Sisak is gone and therefore a different solution needs to be found.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28786	That's right, I agree, I'm just going to say what's the difference is that they've started to resuscitate, resuscitate, what we call a resuscitation in law as a construction reconstruction didn't begin. And yes, the mass citizens themselves paid for the whole recovery, whether they were raising their loans, whether they were paying from the reserve. Now we come up with one more thing, and that's the manager's relationship with these citizens. In a large number of cases in Zagreb, it is a GSKG city firm that evaluates and racketeeres in such a way that, for example, they are charged with 3,000 kunas for refurbishment applications. The building manager you normally pay for those things to do to you. Let's not say I had a chance to see the draft contracts where they took out loans for co-owners because co-owners can't because they're not the legal person where they're told they're going to take 3% of that loan for manipulative expenses for some of their administrative expenses, so that's also whether it's something that this government does. Allows. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28787	The next replica is the distinguished representative of Rada Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28788	Thank you. I'd just like to because I feel co-responsible, my colleague said that we don't have a mayor anymore, and I didn't get a good look at it, but I saw the concern on this side, and I saw it. My colleagues started typing fast into their cell phones to see what happened, so the mayor's still alive and well so that we wouldn't be spreading fake news here, so we don't need to see what it says on Facebook, I saw that my colleague and he got worried and they ran a little bit. [[Intruder: All right, there's the mayor still.]] But I wanted to say and give an opportunity maybe to say something about what we were talking about, and it wasn't here about the civil protection fund, so what the state is prescribing to itself. There are no colleagues here, so tell him to take a look, talk about the duties of local administration and self-government, so what we have passed here and here is not in line with the Budget Law or the Law on the Financing of Local Administration and Self-Government, this law that we are changing and changing local administrations, and self-government... [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28789	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28790	Thank you. Okay, what I was hoping, though, was that in Croatian democracy someone who has such heavy accusations as Mayor Žinic when you mentioned that the title is somewhere that he resigned that he really is and that we are moving towards some democratic culture, unfortunately not. We've been waiting for Godo to prove that a man lives free of charge in a state house for 20 years and more, but let's get back to the fund. Therefore, a fund in the Civil Protection System Act is prescribed and writes, so the state establishes a civil protection fund that will finance damages and, in the event of natural disasters and disasters. If we had really established this fund when we were to establish it, we would have already had significant resources in it today that could therefore at least react to this first part of the recovery immediately. Unfortunately, of course it wasn't done, and it's fantastic for me when the government prescribes laws. which also makes proposals for a law that itself is unable to comply with. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28791	The next replica is Reverend Davor Find.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28792	My colleague Bencic, I was glad to hear that we have come at least a little closer to the points of financing the reconstruction for reasons because we have seen right through these disasters that the state has reacted terribly badly and that in fact the citizens have organised much better there and that is why I think it is crucial that as soon as possible the funds are communicated to the citizens so that, in the end, whatever model it is that the citizens may be able to start rebuilding. Because when we look at what funds are now planned in the budgets, it's obvious that for 40 years, that renewal will not be over.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28793	May I? So thank you. Yes, that is exactly how we calculated according to the funds that this Government has reserved in the budget for the reconstruction of Zagreb, Zagreb and Krapina-Zagorje County for 2021 that this rate of investment will last 200 years, 200 years, so if we have such investments. But that is why what we suggest is that, of course, the resources from other sources such as the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, where the renovation is one of the categories prescribed by the Law on the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, such as social activity, so that certain social objectives are met, such as non-profits, i.e. that the aim of this bank is not to create profits but to invest in economic and social activities. And I wonder why we haven't done it yet? Maybe we didn't because there was also a long-term unhappiness and a lack of investment in the institutional capacities of the HBOR that maybe couldn't or could've done it. But that can't be our excuse. Because we know that this way we're going to speed up the reconstruction and we really need to go that way. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28794	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Marija Jelovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28795	Thank you very much, well-respected chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here's the whole day we've been discussing at this point the most important topic, and I think from this whole debate, which was also constructive, that the motionors will have in mind, and everything that is possible, and everything that is constructive, that they will have in mind in respect of the respect of our proposals. What I have to say is that when we say the word disaster, and disaster has happened to us in itself, it says something really terrible has happened to us. And on that very day when we all remember together, when we looked at images of what happened in the earthquake of the affected area, I think that we were primarily terribly sad that this was happening to us in the year that was really full of all sorts of events, and also another earthquake that hit us this Zagreb area in March and that we thought God what else could happen to us. But I think the worst of all that's happened are the victims and that's the irreparable damage. And once again, I express my personal regret and compassion to the families who have suffered this loss. However, given the terrible destruction of that earthquake, I think we are actually lucky that with God's help we have no greater human sacrifice. The material damage is huge. At this point, we cannot see the value of this material damage, and it will only be known for a while. However, it is certain that, as a country with the help of the European Union and as we have seen in those first moments of the earthquake, everyone was ready to help, as well as the European Union. And I think it is only now that we see the importance of being a member of the EU. We can truly say with certainty that as a state, we will do everything we can to repair all damages and to enable people to live a normal life again in the shortest period of time in the affected area. Of course it's not possible overnight, because the damage is huge. However, what is important for both prominent and sure, we were all proud to show great unity and solidarity as a people at that time, and we can all be proud of it together. What I want to point out as a Karlovchant, and that's why I called first of all for this debate. And the Carlovica area was caused by an earthquake that had an epicenter in the Sisak-Moslavina County suffered certain damage. However, regardless of the current damage recovery we had and in our own area, we as a city and as a county reacted that we immediately sent our teams to help the area of Sisak-Moslavina County to help there because the damage there was incomparably greater. And I thank you this way for all the services, first and foremost the firefighters and the HGSS and the Red Cross, for really acting spotless. I think it reacted as fast as it could and the best it could. Of course, always after a certain time, we can all be generals after the battle as it is said and we can look for certain failures. Of course, you can always do better and work to improve the system so that they can be more effective in the future. However, what I would say about this law itself and what is under discussion today was the most controversial about how co-financing is being co-financed and in Karlovac County which is one of the most assisted areas of the city itself is not in that regime, although in it is the most damage. However, I must say that although we do know that this damage must be resolved, we do not measure ourselves with the area of Sisak-Moslavina County because we are aware that the damage there is incomparably greater. And that they're simply by the development index in something worse than we are. So here and here we want to show that we are aware of the situation and that we are ready to be solid and that we are sure that the state will do everything possible to help everyone in this situation as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28796	We have a few replicas. Danica Baricevic is the first to be respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28797	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representative Jelkovac, as you said about the activity, I would also mention that the great activities our government has undertaken and taken after the earthquake of an additional 160 million kuna for the conservation of jobs for affected areas. So to the most extent, this applies to Sisak-Moslavina County. So there is a huge aid package that the government has sent to the economy in these areas. And future competitions will certainly be right in the direction of repairing power workshops and plants for increasing capacity, their capacities. Therefore, the proposal to amend the Law on Reconstruction, i.e. Its expansion to the impoverished Sisak-Moslavina County will indeed enable citizens to return to normal life, as well as faster and more effective reconstruction.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28798	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28799	Yeah, that's right, pal. I think this is significantly highlighted because we are all aware that without parallel renewal and the creation of opportunities for the rapid growth of the economy and in this area that survived this disaster, we should actually work in parallel both – and strengthen the economy and work on the reconstruction of buildings. Because this is the only way we can do it after the reconstruction of the housing fund is completed and we can also have a restored economy and allow people to live qualityly in that space. So I believe that this is the right way, and through these measures not only after the earthquake affected areas we also had through the Covid crisis, the government has shown that it is aware of how important the segment of society is and that it is the only way we can effectively fight those crises that have hit us, and we are as a city, and I believe that so many other units of local and regional self-government have helped the economy from their local budgets realize how important it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28800	The next replica is the esteemed representative Kresimir Ackar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28801	Here, dear colleagues, I would certainly like to say that you have guessed perhaps in the measure of things that may not have been discussed enough when you mentioned EU funds. They are like other sources of income under this law which is certainly favourable for all areas affected by the Sisak-Moslavina County earthquake across Zagreb where I and Karlovacka are where you are, so that the importance of emphasising European funds and the EU component is exactly what you said today, and in which you may agree with me, we pay too little attention because it is not a solution to the problem. There are also damaged sacral objects, there are damaged public institutions where additional donations will also come and additional necessary assistance for our local self-government unit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28802	Well, thank you colleagues for your findings, to think that we have, we have already been through the restoration once since the Homeland War when we have also destroyed not only the housing fund but also the sacral objects and all that is important for the preservation of our cultural historical heritage and we know how much it requires the same financial resources to be restored, and I think it is very important to preserve our cultural historical heritage. I therefore believe that with the joint forces and these funds that we will receive from the EU Fund, and with our own resources, we will make a great effort to restore this, everything that has been suffered and to be the same and even better than it has been.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28803	The next replica is the esteemed representative Branko Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28804	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Jelkovac, you were talking about human casualties, and they're really the most serious human casualties. Our priority should be to protect people's lives, so I would just like to say and warn that the City of Zagreb should really replace all of these strips that we see around the center of Zagreb as soon as possible with some scales, because these tapes are already on the floor of the stairs, lawns, etc., and with one skeleton that is not so expensive, it can be protected by pedestrians that pass by especially children. So here's an appeal to the City of Zagreb to do something about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28805	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28806	Thank you, colleague, so I agree with you. Human life is the most valuable and irreparable loss of every human life so that in any case all measures should be taken to protect people from possible unfortunate events that may be caused by damages that have occurred on buildings, as well as appeal to all people of good will and great heart that they do not move alone and on this earthquake affected area in the recovery of damages where buildings are really in a very dangerous state, that there are no accidents because we see that there is that too. Buildings that are now incoherent and not for housing can wait, and what day, nothing will happen if something starts to take care of them for a while, but by professionals, if people start doing something themselves, we see that they happen and accidents, and I think it should be raised as much as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28807	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28808	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues here let me stay here all day in the assembly and listen carefully to what is being said whether it comes from this side or from the other side of the assembly. First of all, I would like to say clearly and decidently and thank Andre Plenkovic the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and all the people of the Government of the Republic of Croatia who, I would say, there has been no government in these past 30 years that this government has experienced natural disasters in just a year. That's something to deal with, it's not easy at all. So I want to thank these people who work daily to get exactly what these people we're talking about get, of course, which is the existence and continuation of life in the Sisak-Moslavina County area. I would like to thank the brothers of the firemen, all the good people of the volunteers, you, at the end of the assembly, who have separated and spent some of your time in the area, whether it's about Petrinja, whether it's about Clay or Sisak. I've had through eve my 53 years of age 11 months to stay in Petrinja and that's '88. the years when Petrinja i.e. Banovina was one of the most potent economically speaking parts of the Republic of Croatia, when more than 30,000 jobs were employed in that area. I was in Banovina the second time after the Storm when all that desolation remained after the aggression on the Republic of Croatia and I was third time here a month ago something a little less with good people builders who took their workers, took them to Petrinj, Sisak, Clay and helped people repair at least that minimal damage so that they could winter. This is where the debate mostly comes down, which is not weird. This Parliament here is mostly a debate going in political terms, but let's face it, we're talking numbers, and I'm going to repeat maybe some numbers that are very important. The earthquake that took place in Sisak-Moslavina County was 6.2 per Richter. In force, he was 10 times stronger than the earthquake that hit the city of Zagreb. The postwar reconstruction houses of all renovated houses in the Banovina area were mentioned only 1.85% of these facilities collapsed in this earthquake, which took place on December 29th last year. Everything has its own time, every evil our people say brings and someone good. We can make good, and this law needs to be done well to people living in that area and in that area. That's what this law is all about. And I am sure that, with all these remarks that you have made and I agree with the good part of these remarks absolutely, they should be implemented in this law and people who expect the Croatian Parliament to pass a law that will bring good to them will certainly be satisfied once we have passed this law. As far as I'm listening to the Prime Minister this morning he said that everything that's constructive for everything that can be useful will be incorporated into this, in this law that we're discussing today. So I want to say in the end that everything that's said here is in favor of the people who live and who are affected by the earthquake in this area. And the willingness of the Croatian government to respond to major challenges in a very short time, and let's be honest, this is a great challenge to be absolutely commended. I don't think we need all the mud we can get on HDZ, the prime minister, I don't think it's appropriate, not this Parliament, and not the moment we're discussing something that will determine the existence of people living in difficult conditions anyway, and they've lived for the last 20 years in these difficult conditions. So, hopefully, and I'm sure this law will help people stay in Banovina and Banovina in 5 or 10 years looks quite different than it looks right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28809	We have a replica, the esteemed representative of Kresimir Ackar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28810	Dear fellow Ivanovic, you have always been in my eyes the personification of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema, with this exhibition and all that sentiment that you have just shown by one message of unity and message of importance and measure of things, and thanks to volunteers, I want to thank and thank all those whom you represent to Slavonia, which is 100 times in our history as close as possible, which further shows that, thanks to all the rest of Croatia, no matter how difficult it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28811	Thank you very much. That's right, that's Croatia, that we're looking over small screens, that's Croatia, when evil is, then we're all together. But there must be absolutely Croatia here, here we decide about the citizens of the Republic of Croatia the same sentiment that we have in those times I think it has to be even bigger here. So I'm going to do it again, and I'm sure this law will change the vision of the end that he's experienced in the past 20 years, except for the earthquake disaster, a few more disasters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28812	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Branko Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28813	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Ministers, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, so I see that we all want to do the same thing and insist first and foremost on quality restoration. We also want it to be a fair renewal when it comes to co-financing or financing. We'd all like it to be 100%, we all want it especially in the area where the disaster has been declared. The same way we want both this law and this restoration of the right to wrong that has been done before. But we need to know that in this area we have thousands of unusable objects, that we have thousands of temporarily unusable objects, that we have hundreds of objects that are protected cultural goods, and each of these objects has its own specificity. Of which, from the age of the facility, about the way it was built, about whether some were done by the rules of the profession, legally with all the papers or by owners with their neighbors or friends. Behind each object and a special life story and people not only about how many people there are in the household but what they are dealing with, what their financial option is, is this the facility where they live and the only thing they have or maybe it's their second, third or even fourth real estate. The situation is extremely complex and difficult. Especially when we can read today that geologists say it is possible for certain lands to be unsure of construction at all. Seismological estimates are that there will be more tremors and we are witnessing that some of the objects have already been examined and that the statisticians have found that they have small cracks in the coming period they are further deepening and getting some different status. The heart of all Croatia is with that area and with those citizens, and I would say that in the next period, the eyes of all of us will be against each and every single object and the restoration of each individual object. Do not let God judge a statistician different from the assessment of one of his colleagues as a similar object or at least at the discretion of that owner or one of us to be similar objects, and one of them got a stamp of one kind or another, that one should be destroyed to the ground, so that it will be paid in one way, and the other one again that it can be rescheduled. Then they'll start talking about crime, then they'll start counting the blood cells of the statisticians, the owners of the facility, etc. You can only imagine what will happen when the construction takes place, when the competition is called, when the builders are introduced. Today, there is no statistician, designer, architect, builder who has not said and who does not want to volunteer, donate material, build one or more objects in the area. However, when a certain builder is put into business, then new problems will come, then they will start counting again as I say blood cells, talking about crime. It should be said that, in the present time, thanks to the European funds above all, good builders are already working and have a lot of work to do. The smaller ones do those jobs they used to do, big ones. The question is what and what will we get when we discuss the competition. So I just want to point out that all those who are rushing and calling that it has not been built and sure that everyone would be more pleased to see construction machinery in Zagreb, not to see these tapes and children who have to walk such a footing, but all this takes a lot of time and a lot of money. She would invite all of us not to put pressure on professionals and all those professional services that have to do so demandingly, and I would say thankless work because she will eventually respond again and be called our party and Minister and Prime Minister. Not long ago, opposition council members called the mayor, the projector, the contractors, how much iron they throw into the foundations. I believe there will be no such outbursts because now we see what iron means both in the foundations and in the walls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28814	Replica, Honorable Representative Miro Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28815	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, you mentioned that everyone had a good desire to help people who were killed as soon as possible and as much as possible, but I do have the impression that a little debate today has sent a lot of forests that confuses citizens on the ground and I think it should be made clear again. It's a good thing with these amendments, we reacted very, very quickly. It is important to stress that a message has been sent by the prime minister to respect all the good proposals and constructive, constructive ideas that can still fix this bill, but the same one who will repeat what I have once again replicated. In the current proposal, in the current law as well as in this bill, all citizens affected by the earthquake are either in the third month or now, if they need to co-finance something when they are renewed, and they are not able to do so because they do not have their own resources, they will cover it. And it's a clear message to the citizens that they're going to implement the reconstruction as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28816	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28817	Thank you very much. A colleague just like that. I, too, wanted to stress in my debate, all but everyone and the minister and the prime minister and HDZ, all of them, and not only the opposition and we insist on a quality recovery, on a fair recovery, a reconstruction that will be co-financed or financed in a 100% amount, especially in the area where disaster has been declared and thus be corrected before the injustices. So we insist on one of those models.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28818	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28819	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear ministers, state secretary, respected colleagues and colleagues, so my predecessors in front of the HDZ Representatives Club have already said a lot about our thinking about this Amendments and Supplements Act on the restoration of buildings damaged after the earthquake, so there's really not much to say anymore. But what I would just like to single out is that I, myself, who was the day after the earthquake in Petrinja, refuse any insinuation that the state and its institutions did not respond properly at that very first moment. All institutions responded appropriately, and I don't see why it is necessary to say that the state and its institutions have been temporarily considering how it removes the great contribution made by a number of volunteers in the past time since December 29th, this catastrophic earthquake occurred on December 29th. In fact, I think it is, that Croatia is that Croatian citizens have shown a great heart and desire to help the unhappy who, after which, which this tragedy and this disaster has indeed been met. However, the process continues to take place and the state still needs to do so when volunteers continue to do so in the days ahead of us until the objectives set out in this law are achieved. What I'm saying is that I, like a lot of people, refuse any political, political approach in the making of this law. The allegations that the HDZ has made such a bill by taking care of the political colour of a single unit of local self-government in the area for which the disaster has been declared and which is, and which is affected by this earthquake is absolutely inappropriate. I'm asking the question that these election results would be the basis for one stupid, irrational decision by one political party to cut someone off and contribute to another? Are these local elections, elections for the European Parliament, elections for the Croatian Parliament? What would be the basis for such election results for the ruling party to decide on a different approach? If these are the parliamentary elections behind us the freshest then Sisak would be the one who would be the priority that would be for the Croatian government with this bill to be the highest. I will remind you that HDZ won 43% of the vote in the Serbian elections in Sisak, 43% of the vote, as opposed to the SDP that has the mayor there and has 28% with its coalition. So I refuse to give any thought to how we acted at the time. We acted and the government went with the proposal as it went, and she said clearly that we would listen to what happened during the debate in the Croatian Parliament, the government said, so we will make certain amendments that are good, so we will accept them. And we decided to make an amendment at the HDZ Club. And that amendment we're this.../incomprehensible... I mean a little before my colleague Celjak, is there, there's a colleague named Celjak who worked with him the most and I thank him on behalf of our club. We are going with the amendment that the reconstruction of buildings that are unusable or temporarily unusable will be fully financed on the burden of the Republic of Croatia for the entire space, which has been declared a disaster. So for the entire Sisak-Moslavina County, which includes Sisak City, for the whole of Karlovac County and for the whole of Zagreb County there on those facilities that were in this disaster, i.e. in an earthquake that was 6.2 per Richter shook or destroyed buildings for which there is now a sticker that are unusable or temporarily unusable. In this way, we would like to say that it is indeed this disaster that has affected this area of such nature that it requires state intervention towards all these objects that have been destroyed and which cannot or can not be used temporarily. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28820	We have several replicas, the first distinguished representative, Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28821	Thank you very much. My dear colleague Bacic, I agree with everything you've said because in a situation like this, no one in this situation would think that political relations with anyone because it would not ultimately bring anyone plus but just a minus so that all the accusations and the charges we've been listening to were a little bit and funny. However, I am pleased that, in this way, space has been found to balance the situation of co-financing with all those affected by the same earthquake and I think it is good and that our citizens will be satisfied with this way of rebuilding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28822	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28823	I thank my colleague Jelkovac, that you are right, and it is also not clear to me that anyone could think that in such a catastrophic elemental situation, an accident that hit one part of the Republic and that part that went through a similar war, even more serious injury, that someone in that case would try to politically approach and determine which part of that space would be more favourable or unfavourable conditions. I think that we have made it clear in this way that we at the HDZ Representatives Club will see whether the Government, I suppose, will accept this amendment and accept that all those citizens, the owners of buildings that are unusable or partially unusable, will be treated in the same way whether they came from the town of Sisak, whether they come from some municipality or city in Karlovačka, Zagrebačka or Sisak-Moslavina County.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28824	The next replica, the distinguished representative Tomislav Tomašević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28825	I think I also thank all the MPs in the assembly who helped directly this after the earthquake on the ground, there were really from all the options from the Croatian Parliament and nobody said that nothing worked by the state services, but nobody can say that some things didn't work and that they should be improved so that they don't happen to us anymore. And in that sense, I think we should see such criticism as constructive. And on the other hand, you can't say that HDZ officials didn't come from any inappropriate statements to volunteers, all sorts of things. So you can't say that either. So it was enough, at least euphemist to express myself clumsy statements about heating, about eating, about volunteers who bother, etc. So from that perspective, you can understand one frustration among the citizens who helped, and on the other hand, I think that we can and should evaluate what didn't work and improvised and sometimes improvised in a good way, but it would be good if we had protocols for future disasters not to improvise.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28826	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28827	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Tomasevic, I am not one of those who idealizes anyone or anything, and for me it is always worth the syntagma that can always do better and I agree that it could have been better. But I am also convinced because I was there and immediately after returning from Petrinja, Sisak and Clay I gave some of my suggestions, which should be done by me. But I found out from the fact that it was only a few hours after that earthquake or 24 hours after the earthquake hit, even less, the earthquake hit that space. And it's normal that state apparatus, state institutions react to those who, by default, are firefighters, civil protection, mountain rescue services, or the police, etc., but by default react in.../incomprehensible/... the other bodies react somewhat slower, but it's not responded adequately since the first day I'm here, that's what I refuse because I've made sure that [[Intruder: Time.]] reacted very well. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28828	The next replica is the esteemed representative Branko Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28829	Thank you very much, Vice President. You told your colleague Bačić that right after the earthquake you had visited the area and that the institutions had done their part of the job properly. Indeed, it should be commendable and thanked to all the volunteers of the Red Cross, but it should be said that the Red Cross is also a state institution. It should also be commended and thanked to all firefighters, however, they are part of the Croatian Fire Department and it is a state institution. There were military, police, emergency medical services and all of them should be thanked and commended and said they were part of state institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28830	I'd like to thank my colleagues, Jurichev-Martinchev. Yeah, you're right. What never occurred to me in such situations to accuse anyone, and in the field I saw there was a situation to read from what was being read that local authorities could react better, so not only state institutions. They could have reacted to city and municipal authorities there better, they could have. But to understand is that they were all in a state of shock after in two days you, one of 5.2 or 5.3 other 6.2 when they hit a certain space and then trauma after that is still there. In Zagreb, too, many people still experience the stress of what happened. I understand this situation, and I have never, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever called the mayor or the mayor that he didn't react to how I thought he was supposed to react. But I'm not even in that skin that I can attack. Therefore, I have an understanding if there have been certain gaps in this initial part of both Petrinja and Clay.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28831	The last replica of Honorable representative Davor Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28832	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate the respected representatives of Jelkovac and the respected representative of Juričev-Martinchev on the outstandingly done let's say it to the learned areas as if you were at a school in Kumrovec, you are doing your job, congratulations. It's very nice to hear it go down the hair. But, dear Mr. Bacic, allow me once again to warn you that many, many people have left and gone to the area of Bania or Banovina whatever they call it without any open heart control. If it were the way you say it, no one could get there. The organized state would close within an hour there with an earthquake affected area and establish complete control within 10 minutes. So don't claim to control the situation. Maybe now, but then no. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28833	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28834	Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Dretar. I often listen to your performances here in the Croatian Parliament and it is concluded that your place of residence is very close to Kumrovec, so it seems to me that you are one of the students of the Kumrov school which I, I say, have read many times already from your speeches. I didn't interrupt, I listened to you. I've been listening to you. You don't have to go into your word. [[Do not throw it away.]] As for the reaction, I believe that many volunteers came to help their relatives, friends, and some who arrived there have no family or friendship but simply have a broad heart that came to Banovina that it was good and that it was done. I didn't see anything wrong with it, though I'm commending it. And what's been happening is I'm experiencing as a complement to what was done there by state institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28835	Thank you. We have one breach from the Rules of Procedure, the Honorable Representative of the Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28836	Of course, Article 238, the respected Mr. Bacic, makes false claims. None of the people, most of the people who came there, came to welcome their friends, relatives, or anyone but clean and openhearted ones to help the victims in the earthquake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28837	Okay, you had a replica that wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so you have a warning. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Stephen Nikola Bartulica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28838	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I would refer to Prime Minister Plenkovic's address at the beginning this morning on my replica. He was surprisingly answering that he was agreeing with me. I'll remind you what it's all about. I reminded him of my amendment to draft a new budget where I asked for an increase in funds for basic disasters. Unfortunately, it was rejected by the government. As the state spends taxpayers' money, I have big remarks on how to manage national resources. However, since it is as it is and we have a budget that has limited possibilities, I think it's a pity that this intention of my own in such cases is not recognized in time to provide for the country in advance and thus easier to help people in need. However, he said he was ready to try to reach a consensus on this issue and I think the Croatian public expects a constructive debate from us. I would take this opportunity to thank everyone who helped, donate their precious time to Croatian emigrants around the world who responded very quickly and showed great solidarity with people in the area. However, there is something I would like to say at the end of this debate on the principle of solidarity. It is not disputed that we want to help, and we must have an obligation to help these people. However, from the experience of this law on the reconstruction of the City of Zagreb, it would draw attention to the necessary documentation that our citizens need to submit with requests for funds. The prime minister has made it clear that it also agrees that it is too much of a burden, an unreasonable burden on citizens, I think it takes an ordinary person and an ordinary man months to obtain all these various evidences, solutions, find, hire a public notary, court warlocks, etc. So, I think we need to be realistic that people are in trouble, they have limited resources and we need to do everything to make this law whatever it is that's finally going on. What I now predict is that there will be a small number of demands because simply in the woods of these regulations and conditions ordinary people do not manage, and even when it passes at first sight, they are immediately discouraged to keep going because it is so demanding. There are even 15 different categories of documentation to be submitted. And that's what they say at the ministry between 8:30 and 1:00, so a lot of people don't work free through the morning but we could just say after 16 or 17 hours do it, but there are limited time options. So we need to start dating more to people, we need help, but I am convinced that they themselves know how to manage the resources best. So I will continue to advocate a model to help people directly, not that officials determine the conditions of the competition and then, unfortunately, a large space for abuses and corruption opens up. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28839	Here we have 3 replicas, the first distinguished representative of Katica Glamuzina.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28840	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Bartulica, don't be angry. I wanted to replicate something to Mr. Bačić. I'm sorry he's not here right now. I wasn't fast enough, but I'll ask you. It is not for me to come out of shock that someone has little doubts about his party's good intentions. [[/Intruder: Here you go.]] So I ask you, given some of the rulings of the Croatian courts, given how many ministers from the HDZ government had to leave only in the last term because of suspicion of corrupt activities, is it just as difficult for you to understand that some members of the opposition and also citizens sometimes question some of their decisions and moves?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28841	This is a very interesting replica, thank you, thank you, I'll try to answer. I, I find it difficult to put myself in the position of a judge of someone's intentions and so on, but I will only warn you once again all of you and the public that unfortunately we have a very negative experience with people in positions for 30 years when they come in a position to abuse those positions, unfortunately. And I hope there's no such calculation of the political and not to see who's in power, it would really be one to say disaster and one to top cynicism. However, I hope and repeat, I hope not, and I still think there are people who have good, good will, I would say.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28842	The next replica is the esteemed representative Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28843	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My dear colleague, I agree with the part of your debate where you say that people should be made easier as regards all necessary administrative actions, and that they are not unduly burdened with documentation that may be obtained in the process from those bodies that will be conducting the procedure. However, I have information that even through a program that will be amended, things will be regulated further, and here I propose, there is the secretary of state, that the bodies that are conducting the process all those documents that can be obtained by electronic means from, say, e-ground books, that, that this body that runs the process be supplied to our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28844	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28845	Here's a thank you for the replica, here's what I'd say, and I'd say it's quite one thing that I'd say is a legitimate judgment to say that there's too much burden in front of people to collect all that paperwork within a certain time. What you said about the digital route means that all people have a fast Internet home and can use that technology to do it. I'm not sure, I'm not sure, many don't and will waste time walking around various offices. But I certainly welcome what the Prime Minister said earlier and his willingness to reduce it and certainly want to participate constructively with proposals to bring this into some reasonable measure where people really have an objective chance of collecting what is necessary. Now, the way things are, I think it's unreasonable.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28846	Thank you very much. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, the distinguished representative Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28847	Thank you very much. Ma, I refer to Article 238 because my colleague obviously misunderstood me, so he said, I did not say that citizens themselves would be able to obtain documentation through the Internet, but a body that is leading the process to obtain the documentation from these records that we have in electronic form.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28848	Okay, well, it's just that it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it was a replica. You have a warning. We're going to the final hearing. The first is the distinguished representative Ivan Celjak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28849	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs, the HDZ Club has since received the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Reconstruction in Communication with Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, Minister Horvat and other members of the Government. In such mutual cooperation, the HDZ Club has submitted an amendment amending the law in such a way that the Government of the Republic of Croatia provides in a 100% amount the means for the construction of family houses, business, residential and multi-state buildings and the construction of replacement family houses which are unusable or temporarily unusable, including the cost of temporary storage of things in the area for which the disaster has been declared. So, in the area of Karlovac, Zagreb County, Sisak-Moslavina County including the town of Sisak. The HDZ Club will support a bill that includes such an amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28850	Thank you. The next final debate is on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club, the distinguished representative Tomislav Tomasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28851	It will be tense now to follow whether the government will adopt your amendment or not, it is now, it will be a drama because otherwise if the government does not accept you will not support this law, I understand, it is now blackmail, it is now, the ball has been transferred to the field of government, which would be said by the sports dictionary. Okay, I'll start on behalf of the club eventually, firstly thank all the state services that did their job well on the ground, those who did their job well, and there are some that I think they could have done better, but that's when we're going to propose how to improve the civil protection system. So, first of all, I'm thinking about this coordination, not the first few hours like my colleague Bacic said, but the first few days, maybe even the first week. And I'm not saying that as someone from the chair but as someone who was there on the ground, at least I can talk about Clay I was in one town, in one place, in one place, let's say the aspect helped so that I have a relatively good picture of at least that aspect of how things worked from day to day in continuity and from the first day after the earthquake. And here we were, of course, no party key, we were still able to say after that little earthquake we were both in Clay and Petrinja and Sisak. In all three cities, there is a different break in power and asked how we can help with the reconstruction assembly, before a strong earthquake Tuesday means December 28th. However, I also want to thank all the volunteers who did not have the job of spending time there, and there were many. There were a lot of them, and I agree with my colleagues, they didn't come to friends. They're really there. I've met thousands of people. They've come here that they've never even been to Bania. They sat down from Dubrovnik from Osijek in the car, drove all night and came there and said we could help. And it really means we could say the same in a sports dictionary they left their heart on the ground and it's really in that sense a great thank you and I have to say that such things kind of fill up with hope that this country can be better. So from that perspective, I also want to thank all the volunteers. As far as the bill itself is concerned, the institutional framework which now has the Agency for Reconstruction, has a ministry, has the Office for Spatial Planning of the City of Zagreb even now we add this Central State Office for Housing and Reconstruction, I think it will further complicate communication, relations between these institutions and make it even more complicated to implement the law itself because we can write the perfect law, but if it is in the programme of measures adopted by the Government rather than the Parliament, it is complicated either in different rules or in practice it is for us to do business here that we have done such and such a law. As far as the financial framework is concerned, I still mean I welcome this to equalise Sisak with Sisak-Moslavina County, it has been a trail of both our amendment and our debate today, however, I still think that the declaration of disaster is arbitrarily by the government as a criterion for any government in the future and I don't think it's a good thing that it determines which region will have 100% of the recovery funding, which it won't. From that perspective, I think that, however, this criterion of assisted areas that exist and for counties, we have 4 rural groups by the development index we have 8 groups for local self-government units, I think it is objective, and in this sense we should look at, for example, those undeveloped municipalities and cities that we have in Krapina-Zagorje County. So I think it would be a more objective and fairer criterion than now this new criterion whether or not a disaster has been declared because there is not a clear limit when to declare a disaster, how strong an earthquake has to be to declare disaster, how much not. That means we're in some defenseless grape I don't think it's good for any government, some future government, if we're going to leave it to some political assessment. As far as the application itself is concerned, we have also asked for public purpose buildings in the Sisak-Moslavina County to be financed 100% by the state, that agricultural buildings are being renovated as well as in the Zagreb area of business facilities. And also that all those problems in the application of the Law on the Reconstruction of Zagreb and especially about this bureaucratism, slowness, insufficient allocation of financial resources in the budget to resolve this for Zagreb and the environment and not to repeat this area in Banija because otherwise we can do 100 percent nothing is still nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28852	Final debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Appreciative Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28853	Here I have been hearing all day about the earthquake, about the new law, about the threats that are now taking place after Zagreb have spread unfortunately to the rest of Croatia, i.e. Banovina. And, of course, after this debate, we see that HDZ finally introduced a little drama, the theatre that we will expect this law, whether the government will accept the HDZ amendment on 100 percent funding, so the drama in the Parliament is almost increased. I think there's a little too much theater around this law and it should have taken this much more seriously. It's been a year since the earthquake in Zagreb, a year. One matun, block, brick depends on where we come from which parts of Croatia we say is not walled. I express my fear that this law again in the next threats an example of Vrgorec, who experienced a flood no one cared, every year there were floods. Until the moment it floods like that and this fire extinguisher. Our triba fully functioning of what we, the Croatian Parliament and Croatia bring, and the Croatian Government should also implement the institutions that the Croatian Parliament gives us in essence a legislative framework to fulfil and not do so. I will once again say that I am as proud as a Sinjan that within an hour we have gathered two trucks of people, a poor neighborhood, I mean poor, rich in spirit as we are rich as we have guided it at night and in the deep night we were in Petrinja. Sinj, the youth of Sinja gave her heart, mostly young people for Petrinja. That may be the most important message from other parts. At that time, I must proudly say, I must stress my city of Sinj, my Cetina province we were the first to come. But the disappointment I have is not me speaking against the constituents of Homeland Security. I'm a Croatian soldier, if anything I'm proud of, it's on the Croatian soldier. As a man who participated in the Homeland War and for 20 years was a professional soldier, I know what it means to function. Banovina didn't show. The threat we all agree doesn't have a bell like a ram, so it'll ring. So the system must be ready to provide, protect, and use everything under the circumstances to keep life as normal as possible. So for 15 days, volunteers prepared food, shared cans in the farthest places. I was after a dozen days in the town of Gornja Jama, Donja Jama pardon in the city, it is the area of the town of Gline. No one was there. I've been around these places, I've been in those areas that have been forgotten. We need to know that when there was an earthquake in Zagreb that was a disaster, but believe that the policies of two-thirds of Croatia are so unfair, so unfair. The first division of local self-government by development is so unfair. I mentioned earlier that Drnish almost turns out to be half like they're more developed than Paris. So what are the criteria? It was brought quickly, the PR-Arski former ministers were brought under the pressure I was creating because I was talking about the Dalmatian Zagora, these problems are burning up, these problems, the Gorski Kotar. So we have a fundamental political disaster because colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives of all that we bring to the Parliament are not being implemented. We passed the Homeland Security Act, i.e. Homeland security as an element that unites all components from kindergarten to the Croatian Army. You don't know who drinks who pays, believe me, on the ground you don't know who drinks, who pays. But what matters and what we must be proud of is the unity of the Croatian people as it was in the Homeland War. Unfortunately, we must show it in threats and unfortunately, what threats must reveal bad policies. It must not be repeated, and I am not satisfied with Prime Minister El Bahat who did not give answers to these questions today, but was arrogant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28854	The next final debate on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Davor Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28855	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. There's just a moment before Mr. Uhlir, however, it was an honor for me to say, on behalf of the MPs and MPs, especially my people from the Homeland Movement for a moment, something final on behalf of our club. So when it shook and it seriously shook everyone who was, at least me here in Zagreb, we saw that it was not easy. We're on our way, because if that's how it shakes Zagreb where I was when we found out that the epicenter in Bania or Banovina is whatever you want, we're headed there. That night we passed through the village of Scarsnik and saw the apocalyptic scenes. The second morning when we were waiting for the day to break out in the attic, we were all. And there really nobody asked which party you're from, which regions you're from, are BBB, are Torcida, are Armada, are HDZ, are SDP, are DP we've all been together and we've tried to help as much as we can. What I would ultimately like to ask is that politics and reading of this policy as an action in the Croatian public space should never have an impact on helping people. Namely, the Homeland Movement managed to build two warehouses in Sela and in the town of Greda in one elementary school and in one social home. There we loaded over two, three tolls, which is a serious physical job. We have been expelled from both warehouses by the orders of the head or head of the municipalities from one party and the other within three days. Why are we out there and who are we, and why are we bothering me today I don't know? Currently, the Homeland Movement has a large warehouse in Kutina from which we distribute assistance for all of Banovina or Banovina. I think the biggest nonsense right now is to argue about what's being said. What I'd like to say right now is just the names of some people, which are Ines, Damir, Ljiljana, Davorka, Sasha, Daniel, Mirko, Hanna and her mother, Domagoj and Dario great people who haven't asked at any time what parties you're from and why you've come here but have helped and helped us today. Thank you all at the end of this debate. It's ten hours. I believe and I am sure that we are all the same in the same thoughts not only of Sisak-Moslavina, but also of the Carlovak County as of Zagreb County, the City of Zagreb and Krapina-Zagorje should be helped equally. People who won't have financial opportunities to resuscitate their facilities need to be helped 100%. To those who will be able to help a little bit should be added. Dear friends and respected friends and the Croatian public I repeat once again no one and nothing to be honest unfortunately can unite us better than natural disasters or aggression of the enemy. I call you once again from this place to tomorrow, when we wake up and finish this debate, we realize that we can speak equally from the left, from the right, and from the middle, about the future of this country. And I think we can build a future on that. And now let me say, on behalf of the promoter, I've only allowed myself a little bit of a Google, but before I go, I'd just like to ask you, since tomorrow is a new day of work, that you change your batteries to Mr. Representative Celjak. I think he's gonna need a little more power. He barely said this to the end. And just for the end of the day, let me tell you that I am announcing that we are finally once again being taught how to restore the Croatian Recorder by the number of applications Mr. Uhlir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28856	Finally on behalf of the Proposer, Honored Secretary of State Željko Uhlir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28857	Dear Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, after this whole day's debate on amendments and amendments to the laws certainly worth amending and valuable proposals that have reached several amendments during the day that the government will consider, realistically look at and try to get what is most qualitative to improve the law, to be even more quality, with the expression of empathy towards our citizens from affected areas, especially those who have lost their homes and have compassion for all victims, with thanks at the end of today and for all volunteers and those who first jumped in when it was necessary to bear in mind that both this law and these changes will cause now and the changes of the measures programme, and then we will change the technical regulation due to other conditions on the ground of seismic characteristics of the ground, so that there will be further changes that will be a prerequisite to start up more intensive renewal but otherwise we can't. Also, I would draw attention if I didn't need to make such a big fuss about meeting the requirements, because really when we read our requests and lists of contributions concentratedly I'm going to tell you here that for example a basic requirement, a basic form of application for the right to renovate under point two says evidence that the earthquake damaged multiple residential buildings, business buildings, family houses, an existing building, that means that the legal one should be under 2.1 attached documents that can be so 13 pieces can be one of them. Well, point two lists a copy of a land book that is entered and may be the following documents, so 25 alternatives each has a sentence or-or-or. Therefore, it is not 80 documents to be attached but only the alternative to which the owner concerned has at his disposal. These services presented all kinds in our country's history that documents proved some right or claim. Without further ado, spending 40 billion kunas without extensive documentation will not be possible. So all the things that are described in the law, all those releases, all those property censors, they all have to prove it because otherwise we can't pay off the funds. Here again I thank everyone for the debate, for the concrete and quality proposals that will be discussed and the government will find the best solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28858	We have three replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28859	Thank you very much. State secretaries of the Republic of Croatia unfortunately do not have great confidence in the institutions. In conversation with people in Banovina who have been damaged who have experienced the earthquake and others literally on the ice simply have no confidence. We as parliamentary representatives today from the debate mostly prime minister and you from the government have not received any guarantee that soon one block of this bill will come true. I would not thank volunteers this way, but I am taking off the hats that have shown them in the community how to manage the crisis, and you from the Government responsible for this Parliament may be ashamed of your failure to function in that field. Tell me, are you ashamed of what the state has scheduled in that area for not doing anything? [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28860	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28861	Unnecessarily sharpened. Hard words at the end of the day when we talked about contributing to the quality of this law and that the government will do everything it can and accept what is rational and quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28862	Next replica. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28863	Secretary of State Uhlir, you have violated Article 238. These aren't hard words. This is true. The people don't trust you, and we, as assembly representatives, are telling you the truth in this high house. They lost trust in you, in your deception, in your lies, in your delusions because you didn't show up as a system when you needed it. And I asked you if you were ashamed? You didn't answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28864	Time. This was a replica with a lot of insults. You're getting a warning. It's a warning. You have your truth, but that doesn't mean it's absolutely true. The next replica is Commissioner Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28865	Okay, so what you were saying about 80 documents is what people are wondering, so I'm in that situation alone to collect these documents. Couldn't those documents somehow be organized and collected without people collecting it themselves? You understand, it's real, I have experience and it's a huge job to collect documents regardless of what you say has options or – or. Some things we know exist and that you could simply find them yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28866	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28867	I said in the final word that the amendments to this law would cause changes to other sublegal acts and that we are now doing one rationalization and simplification. But that large part of the expectations will not be met because in some areas of our country we have a still unsettled land-book situation. So we can't even pull out when we don't have a record. But where we have it, we'll try to meet the citizens anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28868	The next replica, distinguished representative Tomislav Tomašević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28869	Secretary of State, I understand that it's not 90 documents that are cumulatively necessary, but how much? 13 in the worst situation, right? However, out of these 13 good parts of these documents, the state has and it is absolutely stupid that now citizens who don't even understand what these documents have to go from one state institution to another so that the state is not communicating, so citizens have to do so. So that's stupid. I understand that the application of this law is not only a problem from now on, but it has imposed all the mess, the mess in the functioning of the state administration, in property relations, in building chaos and legalisation on legalisation, and all possible upgrades to the upgrades of regulation. However, as I would say, we haven't been in power for the last 30 years. So it's simply unacceptable from that perspective also when you see how much money has been ensured that even according to those 12,000 kunas, money still hasn't been paid for months that have submitted all normal documentation in September, or for this recovery, let alone that construction reconstruction has started. So it's frustration.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28870	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28871	So with all the effort to make something quality and fast, it's always a question of whether anything at the expense of what. We have made it possible for citizens and hundreds of them to already use that option to submit quality requirements with all necessary documentation. We could have stopped that no one could stand anything until the state bases came together. State bases can't connect that easily. So we've made it possible for citizens to submit those who have relatively, and they've already done their own paperwork at home, so why should we keep them? We'll try to continue, and that's to connect the bases of those who can. So, it's done all the time. We didn't stop with this process.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28872	The last replica of the distinguished representative Ljubica Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28873	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, I'm glad you've made it clear in your final address that you've made it clear about the paperwork. But I think there is still a great pleasure to be mentioned to me in the end, and today I haven't quite heard someone talking about it, and that's a large number of people covered by Article 6 who won't pay a single kuna for the renovation. In particular, this number of people is still spreading through this amendment proposed by the HDZ Club, and I think it will really make people happy. I believe that those who had doubts about this law will now also express one satisfaction when we vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28874	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28875	Thank you. So you recognized that in all possible ways the legislator tried to predict certain situations and to meet the citizens. So that's what we've been trying to do in these amendments, and with the amendments that the government is going to evaluate, we're going to improve and make the law even better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u28876	Thank you. Here's what we've completely exhausted the debate with. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We are now going to the following: Final proposal of the Penal Code, second reading, P.Z. No 11 The proposal is made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172, in conjunction with Article 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Secretary of State Josip Salapic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u29007	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs, we have before us the Final Proposal for a Penalty Act. The final proposal of the Law on the execution of prison sentences against the applicable law on the execution of prison sentences provides for a number of newspapers as the next improvements to the law. We are speeding up the process of referring to the maintenance of the prison sentence, the process of sending convicts to the maintenance of prison sentences in a way that is prescribed without delay, and the maximum period of three working days to the Court of First Instance for the delivery of judgments and other documents from the date of power and enforcement of the judgment to the judge under the applicable law is a period without delay or a period of 3 days. Therefore, within 3 days, a solution should be made to refer to the maintenance of the prison sentence. Furthermore, we allow for the accommodation of investigating prisoners and convicts in a penitentiary under better conditions. We are improving the conditions for the execution of prisons and prisons of investigation in such a way as to allow the bill to place investigative prisoners in a prison closed conditions, and according to the applicable law, investigators are conducting an investigative prison exclusively in prisons. It is possible to place the convicts, persons who are sentenced to prison in the criminal proceedings of the penitentiary with milder conditions. It is extremely possible that joint accommodation of different categories of prisoners has not been possible so far. We are improving the conditions for the exercise of the rights of prisoners to health care. It's special and important to emphasize. The final draft of the law requires that we comply with the provisions of the Health Protection Act in the section relating to the health care of prisoners in the prison system of the Ministry of Justice and Administration in a way that the existence and operation of the Prison Hospital in Zagreb has been established in a way that, in the sense of the execution of the prison sentence, is punishable with the status of a health institution. We also link the prison system with the CEZIH system to the central health information system of the Republic of Croatia after meeting certain conditions, for example doctors at the Prison Hospital in Zagreb and the Departments of Health Protection of Prisoners in Penitentiary and Prisons would have access to that information platform to enable them to issue instructions and prescriptions on their own and directly for prisoners, which would significantly speed up and facilitate the provision of health care to prisoners within the framework of the prison system and, in certain ways, relieve the public health system of the Republic of Croatia. We are also increasing the material rights of officers in the form of severances, improving the material rights of officials, authorised officials by providing higher severances in view of the length of effective employment 10, 20 and more than 20 years in the prison system, and increased single financial assistance to dependent family members from 6 to 12 final salaries of an authorised official if an authorised official loses his life in the service or for the purpose of serving in the prison system of the Republic of Croatia. We are also introducing new technologies into the prison system, using new technologies in the prison system, for example, audio video visits by prisoners, online education, audio video conferences of prisoners with state and public bodies when the need for proceedings is being conducted in front of these public bodies, thus improving the conditions of detention. Also, we're introducing electronic communications into the prison system. Special importance shall be given to the protection of the rights of victims of criminal offences and offences of her family in such a way that the draft law provides a legal basis, the possibility of the victim of certain criminal offences and offences, or the request thereof, to be informed of any independent departure of prisoners from the prison or of the escape of prisoners from the penitentiary or prison, of which the victim would be informed of support to victims and witnesses of the Department of Criminal Law of the Ministry of Justice and of the Administration. Furthermore, the final draft law provides a legal basis for the adoption of a regulation on the conditions of release under electronic supervision as a new sublaw, and is adopted by the Minister of Justice within 6 months of the date of entry into force of the draft law. As far as child rights are concerned by the final proposal of the law, we also take into account the rights of the child in a way that provides for the possibility for a child born in a prison system to remain with his mother at the request of the mother and if the welfare centre assesses that it is in the best interests of the child until the age of 3 or, exceptionally, until the end of the sentence if the remaining sentence is no longer than 6 months, and according to the applicable law, the child can remain with the mother until the age of 3. As regards the handling of the extraordinary circumstances that we unfortunately had in this last earthquake in Sisak, Glina and Petrinja, the circumstances resulting from the COVID-19 epidemic, a strong earthquake in Zagreb, have indicated the need to prescribe special powers for the Minister of Justice and the administration to take measures and activities in exceptional cases such as the exceptional circumstances of disasters and epidemics of larger scales in relation to the measures of the organisation, changes in places and methods of execution of prisons, measures of mobilisation, the organisation of work schedules and working hours, changes in place and conditions of work in certain penitentiary facilities or prisons, while these circumstances take place with the aim of making more successful adjustments to the process of work and the conduct of prisons, in order to protect the health of all persons in prisons, prisons, prisons and to ensure the continuity of their work and the conduct of prison sentences. We've also expanded the reasons for stopping the prison sentence. We've solved certain possibilities when prisoners can step forward in the means of public communication. Therefore, it is possible for a prisoner to step forward in the means of public communication, on the basis of a reasoned application and with the prior opinion of the warden, which the exit of the prisoner may be delayed or denied for security reasons and organisational reasons or for the protection of the right of the victim and if the same would be contrary to the purpose of the sentence. We also edit psychological assistance issues for prison system officials, civil servants and prison system owners if they directly participated in a traumatic event or in another multi-story and crisis situation as we had in the recent earthquake. We therefore propose that the final proposal for a law on the execution of a prison in the Croatian Parliament be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u29008	Thank you. We have a few replicas. The first is the honourable representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u29009	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, I believe that with the Final Proposal for a Penal Code, you mentioned the part where a prison hospital enters the public health system. It is also worth noting that this Final Bill improves the conditions for medical staff working within the judicial system. And here I would especially like to thank the assistant minister of Ms. Ani Spero who runs this administration for the effort she's made. The situation related to the COVID epidemic has opened up some new opportunities for telepsychiatry within the Vrapce Psychology Clinic has established a telepsychiatric centre. We have already discussed the possibilities of co-operation with the Department of Prison System and I hope that this will also improve the quality of life of persons with mental problems, which are currently in prisons and penitentiary facilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u29010	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u29011	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I also commend your cooperation with the Department of Prison System of the Ministry of Justice and Administration. It is also my duty to commend all of our employees in the justice police and prison hospital staff system because, as a system of 25 different institutions of the Republic of Croatia, more than 12 thousand prisoners pass through. I can say responsibly that we have successfully dealt with the pandemic of the coronary virus. It wasn't that big a number. At present, we have 38 prisoners and 35 officers who are currently positively active, and given the number of 3 and a half thousand people presently in the prison system of the Republic of Croatia, I think we have successfully overcome difficulties and there is a great danger given the conditions and diversity of the penitentiary that this could be extended. But here's what I thank God and our officers for eventually turning out to be under control and well-being.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u29012	The next replica is the distinguished representative Danica Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u29013	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State you said that the new Penal Code will affect the accommodation of prisoners with children as a particularly sensitive category of people deprived of liberty and that is certainly here for commendation. I wonder if you have any information about the number of female or inmates who, along with their children, carry out prison sentences, do you have that information for how many they are, because they will be reflected in this provision? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u29014	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u29015	I don't have the exact information. It's a small number. It is important for us to allow our children born in the prison system to stay with their mother for as long as the mother wants, and all in the interest of protecting the rights of the child and mother. So, not only are we taking care of this extended stay, but it is especially important that mothers who have children have improved conditions and are particularly concerned about the health of the child and about the health of the mother and all the conditions that we have and this law have improved. And so far she's been taking care of it. It's a special right that we protect here and this improvement of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u29016	The next replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u29017	Thank you very much. State secretaries in Croatia are not all the same luck. Some for 10 million ogres a few days a few dozen kilos of potatoes, and some... Because they're selling our grandmothers our onions, our chapel, our goodbyes, their cabbages end up in jail, and I'm so glad these people are gonna make this system better. [[You don't understand.]] Because those who are well... They don't need to be taken care of. [[You don't understand.]] But my personal question is here, what is the financial framework for people who are in penitentiary penitentiary and for people who work within the penal system to improve and increase their rights do you have a financial framework? Is there any idea what the amount is planned for this, anything that you've listed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u29018	In the prison system somewhere around 500 million kuna a year, and one of us per prison system estimates per day costs about 400 kuna of living with all rights, health care and food. What we discussed today on the terms of our prisoners is only being cooked daily by seven different menus in the Remetec prison kitchen. So take care of all rights, and the prison system has its own incomes, and that's what we have pigs farms in Požega, in Lepoglava. There's oil production in Pula. There is lamb production in Gospić. So, the prison system, as far as its capacities are concerned, is producing food for that entire system itself, and that's a big drive, I said that under 12,000 people a year go through the system, and in the prison system, about 3,500 employees were employed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u29019	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u29020	Thank you very much. Here, dear secretary of state, I commend first and foremost that it has actually joined the new, new, actually making a legal proposal since '99, this law has been changed 13 times, and I think it will be much simpler to actually follow the matter itself. In addition to what we've already heard, so improving the material legal conditions, so the tenants and employees in the penitentiary and prisons, I think what needs to be pointed out here is the improvement of the rights and conditions of the prisoners themselves, so the persons in the penitentiary. Here he would particularly highlight the very provisions that say that it is now possible for them to come forward in some way, in fact, by means of public funds in the media and in fact to show perhaps those positive examples that perhaps we in the eye that we are therefore outside of the penitentiary do not see. Here you would mention perhaps the example of Lepoglava so where the prisoners themselves work and the products and furniture are therefore engaged in metal, livestock, agriculture, they produce very quality wine so that I think they actually got a new channel and medium through which these positive examples can also be heard in the Croatian public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u29021	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u29022	Thank you very much. You're right. So, not all prisoners are the same, those who spend their sentences in terms of fines, the amount of fines are working and paid for their work, receive certain financial resources, and therefore those days in prison pass faster. We have provided all the rights given the conditions that we have to improve so every year more and more. And also to relieve this prison system with this law, we introduce the possibility to introduce ourselves, even though we had an electronic surveillance project pilot so that certain easier prison sentences could be maintained under house arrest with electronic surveillance, and this year, when we adopt this law, we think about 200 of these devices to start, so we'll see how this develops and continue to relieve prisons from these so-called. Mild sentences so as to allow for better conditions for those who remain in detention for years of imprisonment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u29023	The next replica is Honorable representative Davor Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u29024	Mr. Secretary of State, allow me to ask you. Since considerable funds are provided when you will create a system that should start from the so-called so-called system. BOLS or hospitals for persons deprived of freedom who will be able to tell future prisoners or those who have already been sentenced legally to the maintenance of a prison sentence of quality health care because, as far as we can see at the moment, some of the media's most exposed Croatians can freely tell the convicts, and should be prisoners, they should not go to prison detention because they remain at large, arguing that you cannot provide adequate health care. Please, why don't you invest in health care so that people who have made a serious mistake about the law and get an adequate prison sentence can't go to maintenance? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u29025	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u29026	As for persons who are supposed to maintain a prison sentence, it is not up to the Ministry of Justice and Administration to decide, but a judge to execute, depending on the whereabouts of the convicts. As far as health care is concerned in the prison system, all prisoners have the right to use health care in all hospitals, so if it is not a prison hospital, the Ministry of Justice and Administration, or the Administration of the Prison System, transporting prisoners with insurance depending on what type of prisoners are working in the hospital in Zagreb and no one is, and it is very urgent and urgent health care, through order and waiting to be checked into the hospital, accompanied by the judicial police. No prisoner has ever lost adequate protection. This is a special concern and there are special protocols. And what you asked at the beginning is in the jurisdiction of the judge of execution.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u29027	And the last replica, the esteemed representative of Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u29028	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, a third of those who, who go through the prison system, are defacto go through and stay and do their time in some way serve their sentence through the own investigative prison, and we know that there are also the worst conditions when we look at our prison system and I'm interested in the ministry whether or not the plans are going to be done or what are plans to improve exactly the conditions regarding the prison itself and this other, another issue that you have already mentioned here and in the last replica, which is through the report related to the penal system, we also mentioned a project of the Ministry just for electronic development, electronic surveillance and other security measures that could defacto discharge the prison system and I mean for certain minor penalties and it is not necessary that so many, so many people pass through the closed type of prison system. So I'm interested in this project as it goes. when this one is going to run better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u29029	Answer, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u29030	Thank you very much, counsel. Well, you've partly answered yourself, so the truth is that the conditions in the investigative prison are harder than the terms of the prison, when it comes to maintaining the sentence, but the investigative prison itself has a different purpose, which is that it can't affect witnesses, not to repeat the act, that the danger of escape and so on. We will, in some cases, allow this investigative prison to apply to supervision and in house arrest whenever possible. The important thing is that this law provides the basis for this kind of newspaper to be introduced into the prison system. It is not the same to get a sentence up to a year of imprisonment unconditionally or for several years, not all prisoners are the same and we take care to disburse the system, but in a way that we do not endanger what is the public interest of the state, which is that everyone who committed the crime and the offence must serve his sentence in accordance with the sentence convicted by the Croatian court. And we'll take care of it so we can unload the prison system from milder cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u29031	Thank you, Secretary of State. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? There's no one, there's no one. Then I'm opening a debate. The first came to the Club of Representatives of the SDP, the esteemed representative of Vesna Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u29032	I would like to thank Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. We have before us the Final Proposal for a Law on the execution of a prison sentence in a second reading. As stated in the provision of Article 3 of the Law proposal, the main purpose of the execution of a prison sentence is the humane conduct and respect of the dignity of a person who is in the maintenance of a prison sentence, his training for life at large in accordance with the law and social rules which contributes to the protection of the social community. This bill undoubtedly allows prisoners to be treated legally and with respect to the dignity of a person who is visible from the fundamental principles of the law of the prohibition of any illegal act, the prohibition of discrimination, the classification of prisoners against criminalities and other features in order to implement an individual programme of enforcement of prison sentences and to prevent mutually poor influence. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of The draft law prescribes the protection of motherhood, i.e. special care and protection provided in the prison system by a pregnant prisoner and prisoner who gave birth during the maintenance of the prison sentence at the same level of health care as in the social community. In the prison system of the Republic of Croatia, a special penalty for women who become the Department of Parent and Mothers with a Child has been established. It is prescribed that a child with a female prisoner may remain for the longest to three years of child's life and mandatory co-operation of the penitentiary or prison with the competent welfare standard in relation to the programme of execution of the prisoner who gave birth during the maintenance of the prison sentence, in particular in the part of the use of the benefit and exit of the mother with a child, and in order to protect the rights of the mother and child. The provision of Article 82 is also good. A bill to provide a prisoner, a person with disabilities with accommodation suitable for the purpose and degree of disability. It is important that this bill also prescribes the right of the victim of a criminal offence to inform the prisoner of the detention of a prison sentence, and in accordance with the request of the victim of the crime and of the offence, that is to say, her family to inform them of any independent exit or escape of the prisoners. However, the second question is whether this legal purpose is set out in Article 3. The proposal for this law is realised in practice. So, the question is whether our prison system will be able to train prisoners to live on the loose in accordance with the law and social rules, because otherwise, prisoners through the maintenance of the sentence will acquire the skills that will make them rectivators and return them back to the prison system to support the sentence. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Even 44.94% of relapsers are in the prison system, which is a very large percentage. On the official pages of the Ministry of Justice and Administration, it is stated that the work of prisoners and professional training is one of the most important treatment procedures in the pursuit of the purpose of the execution of the prison or rehabilitation of prisoners and the reduction of relapses. Respecting health skills and acquired knowledge and skills of prisoners, the success of achieving individual programmes, security assessment and the shown real interest in working engagement is working to deploy to an increasing number of prisoners according to the possibilities of prison or penitentiary. The question is, what are our options for prisons or penitentiary for the acquisition of knowledge and skills and employment of prisoners? The work of prisoners is mostly organised within workshops in penitentiaries and prisons where work is done on wood and metal processing, catering, agriculture, maintenance, gravel, stone exploitation, concrete gallantries and the like. Prisoners in penitentiary and prisons also perform auxiliary and technical tasks such as maintaining the cleanliness and orderliness of the premises and the circle of the penitentiary or prison, washing of the vehicle, painting and auxiliary jobs in the laundry room, kitchen, warehouse, prison workshop and the like. It is obvious at first sight that workshops that do not encourage information literacy are preferred and do not train prisoners for those jobs that are suitable for market requirements that are currently being sought and deficited interests are related to information. According to the Penal Code, it is possible to hire prisoners to another employer outside the penitentiary, or prison, and it is possible to allow the prisoner to continue carrying out his own economic and other activities. However, the jobs most often carried out outside the penitentiary or prison are auxiliary jobs in the sawmill, construction, environmental planning, loading, unloading, agricultural work, etc. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The final draft law on the execution of prison sentences, i.e. prisons in accordance with the possibilities, organises the primary education of adults, i.e. prisoners who have not completed primary education as well as the secondary education of adults, retraining, training and training of prisoners. Education is organised in a penitentiary or prison outside the penitentiary, or prison, in accordance with general rules in the field of education. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The proposal for a law of the type and level of education to which a prisoner may access shall be determined by an enforcement programme and shall depend on his ability and proclivities, the duration of the sentence and other circumstances relevant to the achievement of the purpose of the execution of the prison sentence, as well as the possibilities of the penitentiary or prison. It is certainly necessary to create opportunities for penitentiary facilities and prisons to create facilities for primary school and secondary school education, and to encourage all those prisoners who have the will and ability to acquire qualifications in higher education at their own expense if the study programme can be brought into line with the security reasons. It is a good provision that after completing education, or part of education, the prisoner is given a testimony or a conviction of training, or training from which it must not be apparent that education is acquired in the penitentiary, or prison, so that prisoners are not stigmatised after a prison sentence, and would be more easily integrated into the social community. Because the prison in Sisak and the penitentiary in Glina were damaged by an earthquake, one part of the prisoners went to prison in Zagreb and the other to a penitentiary in Glina. Those evacuated to Zagreb were deployed to other prisons in Bjelovar and Gospić, while part of which remained in Zagreb was said by Minister Malenica. Regardless of the transfer of prisoners to other prisons and penitentiary facilities, it is necessary to take care not to violate the fundamental principles of the execution of prisons in order to train prisoners for life at large in accordance with the law and social rules and to prevent relapses which contribute to the protection of the social community. Therefore, the SDP Club will support this Final Proposal for a Penal Code. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u29033	Thank you. The next is Honorable Representative Davor Dretar on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u29034	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. But let me see, even though we all used a moment like this in replicas to a little politically provoke you to behold at the beginning of this presentation on behalf of the House of Homeland Movement Club, I bring you all the voice of the Union of Justice Officers of the Republic of Croatia. In cooperation with Mr. Armin Tatarovic, their president, I have decided to read only a few of their sentences. I believe you will all agree with them. They beg you as well as the entire Croatian public and ask you first why the law on the execution of prison sentences put the rights of judicial officers? I believe that we are all in agreement here if the rights of the fundamental criminals or of any other police officer are dealt with specifically by delegated laws, I believe that as well as the judicial officers should be treated in a legally equal manner. The material rights of judicial officers are currently much worse than any other within the judicial or executive system of the Republic of Croatia. Namely, the interest in the profession of a judicial officer is getting smaller and smaller, regardless of the state service that should be the source of safe and stable income, judicial officers give up on a daily basis. We're losing a large number just for a few reasons: bribery, so low personal income, poor working conditions. I guess we all know it wouldn't be easy for anyone to spend their lifetime inside a prison or a penitentiary. The size of the job is great. There's day and night and weekend shifts. Every day's stress. Of course, it's not easy for anyone to work in such an environment. But there's another big problem. Justice officers are quite concerned about the inability to retire until the conditions for age or benefit are met because an apology is due to the need for service. So these people have serious problems. We can solve these problems here extremely easily. We are a home that can do this, only to give the rights of authorized officials of the prison system and probations a special law with prior consultation with all trade unions within the prison system and probation, give ourselves a deadline of ah, 6 months and then after this law comes into force we try both judicial officers and police officers in some way legally regulate. They would separate the rights of prisoners and anything related to prisons, penitentiaries and prisoners from the rights and obligations of authorized persons or judicial officers as well as the regulated rights and obligations of police officers in the Police Act. We propose, of course, a provision in case any law of the Police Act or any authorised official is regulated in a more favourable way to apply the same to officials of the judicial police because we really do not see any reason for legally different access to judicial officers or any other police officer of the Republic of Croatia. Also, these people who really work in a stressful environment and we can freely say the environment of threats or dangers to life have the full right to severance as people under the Police Act. As for the prisoners who are in COVID, and from Mr. Tatarovic, I have been informed that the measures prescribed by the National Staff continue to apply, so it is not easy for all our judicial officers and police officers to carry out these measures in the you know and themselves complicated environments of reduced legal squares, i.e. a lot of heavy space, manage to maintain, of course, all epidemiological measures. In the final draft of the law, we only saw a few things that, right here, would just like to point out a little bit. The term “prisonment” shall read Article 11. "it ends in a way that guarantees the prisoner respect for human dignity. Any criminal proceedings including many biomedical and scientific research have been prohibited in which the prisoner would be subjected to any form of torture, abuse or humiliation" which is of course normal. "The prisoner who has been the victim of these prohibited proceedings has the right to compensation for damages." But let me ask, this bill says, "He has the right to compensation for damages." Is it a prison, is it a penitentiary, is it a state or who would? So I'd like you to check that article for me, Mr. Secretary of State. It says the prisoner has the right to compensation for damages, but it doesn't say who's responsible for the same damage. Article 33(3) states: ‘Some professional transactions may be checked by means of an operation contract to professional service providers outside the state service. If, in the light of the law, employment of young people is set as a goal, I see no reason why certain professional businesses should be entrusted to professional service providers. How do you ensure the confidentiality of the prisoner's personal data if some third parties enter the system? The Treaty on the Functioning defines the Law on Mandatory Relations. The contracting authority shall provide the performer with the tasks and information relevant for the execution of the action otherwise the contracting authority shall be liable for the damage. So I don't think that it's legally defined, or protected, the right to the personality of a prisoner. Article 45(3) of the prisoner's work provides income to prison penitentiary offices, in their accounts and is used to provide compensation for the work of prisoners, for the purchase of raw materials and materials necessary for the work of prisoners, and for other current and investment investments, etc. But let me warn the prisoner’s resources should primarily be used to pay contributions to prisoners, and then to compensation and order further. Prisoners may once serve time and exercise some pension insurance rights so that the people can tell the pensioner that there has been some benefit from honest work, so there may be some perspective in their lives as well as a motive of course that they do not relapse. Another interesting thing, the proposal for a conditional discharge shall be submitted to the Judge of the County Court within the meaning of Article 165 of this Act. If the judge does not reject the proposal as unlawful, he will schedule a meeting of the Council for parole no later than 30 days from the date of receipt of the proposal. I'm asking nicely, Mr. Secretary of State, to cut that deadline because there may be someone who will spend a month in prison just waiting for someone to call a session. I believe that within 7 to 10 days, it can be dealt with very quickly. In any case, the law is good, but it has its hollows, and in that name, the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club will be kept in the hope that even the rights of prisoners, but also the rights of law enforcement officers and police officers, on whose behalf I am speaking here today and tonight, will still be a little bit more respected, and once again on their behalf, on behalf of people who are daily exposed to serious life situations, I am asking that the rights of judicial officers and police officers be governed by a special law. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u29035	Next debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, distinguished representative Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u29036	Thank you very much, Vice President, Secretary of State, Director, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the final proposal for a law on the execution of a prison sentence. Namely, this law was on the first reading and in the previous assembly of the Parliament and now in this council twice. So from a certain number of MPs who were MPs and in the previous meeting, we really had a really thorough opportunity to study it. After this point we had about amending the Law on the Reconstruction of the Earthquake, someone may say that this is not so important, but it is an extremely important law because it is in fact in law that the business of executing prisons is a matter of interest to the Republic of Croatia. This is one huge system where we actually have an average of 7 penitentiary and 14 prisons we have about 3 and a half thousand prisoners. It's also doing a little less than 3,000 people in the system. And when we see it all together, actually, the system is really a remarkable, huge and pervasive job in doing that system is really very, very important. We, as the Croatian Democratic Community, will immediately say in the beginning support this law, because, in fact, since its first reading, nothing has changed, and then we have assessed the law as good and then we have assessed that it offers a series of steps forward. First of all, what we want to say hello is that this law reduces deadlines and enables faster treatment in all phases of action. It has been in some way and an obstacle so far, and I have to say that really bad pictures and bad impressions and in public were when it takes too long for someone to get a fine in prison or a court decision when it comes to going to prison. Now, we sometimes have this to last, especially for the first time, to take a long time, so even when we have those institutes that can actually delay the execution of a sentence, then we get the impression in public that there are a lot of things that are actually somewhere under the table. This law offers good solutions, it shortens the deadlines of conduct and is in fact legitimately the right of society to defend itself against relatively and potentially dangerous individuals who, therefore, already have a rightful verdict that they must go to a prison sentence. So that's one measure that I think is very, very good and he regulates this law. Secondly, this law is strongly addressed to modern technologies in all its segments, it is also very important not only this electronic surveillance that has been discussed for ten years and should certainly be followed. I know there's funds. Here's an assistant who's worked very hard on it and these funds are secured and needs it as soon as possible to implement it, but actually technology will offer some probably other solutions and cheaper than that tomorrow, and it's quite safe and cheaper for society, and yet on the other hand it's safe when someone can do that prison sentence at some small scale and at home especially these investigative prisoners because it's still about people who don't actually have the rightful prison sentence, but they're in one special investigation process. It is also a very good measure in fact that the contacts of prisoners with children and their family can be carried out through a video link conference. So that way they can communicate with their entire family, and if it's distanced from the institution where it is, there's no cost of having any physical contact, but in fact this is some kind of method and some way that's good and we know about that project that's being carried out, and that's actually a prisoner contact with children where there's been a lot of such contacts that he's provided, and it's done in collaboration with UNICEF. So our prisoners and their children, that's very commendable and very good. Also when prisoners participate in criminal proceedings it's also good that it can be done through a video conference, so he's placed in prison, penitentiary and the matter is done in court and contacted by the court in this way. That's what I think the future has no need to send these people, track them, keep them in the car, and put them at risk. Perhaps one of the greatest achievements of this law is, in fact, what has already been said is the definition of a prison hospital that is about to be part of a public health system. So she's part of a wide system that hasn't been up until now. This gives a certain quite certain advantage that you can quickly come to the aid of a prisoner who has health problems, because we have to be aware, it is true that our prison hospital is not in the brightest condition. It cannot provide all services to prisoners who have specific diseases, and yet on the other hand prisons come and some people who are seriously ill who do not know have cancer and then come to the last stage and actually the prison hospital is the only thing that can send him to these other public health institutions to actually help him. So this will certainly contribute to making the prison hospital part of the public health system and to exchange information, for the possibility of better and better treatment. It's already been here, and it's the same thing about labour rights. It's very difficult actually these judicial officers of ours actually have the status of officials and subsistence and with certain specificities. But this law also regulates certain specificities, and I think it raises the level of these labour rights, for example, the severance will be higher than it is so far, and that is also to be welcomed. It should be noted here, actually, that the work is not the subject of this law of probation. Testing is a very important system and without probation it is difficult today to imagine the overall functioning of the judicial system. But it is regulated by a special law which has also recently changed which is good actually to change this law. What I think should certainly take advantage of the possibility this law offers, which is, after the adoption of this law, it may be possible to unite certain penitentiary and prisons. Now we have 21, and in that sort of steering sense, maybe it's a welcome move. Here we have now seen we have had this earthquake in the area of Sisak-Moslavina County, inmates from Sisak were transferred to another location because it is an old and spent building especially in the city center, and this building in Glina has also been killed by the elderly and the part had to be also transferred elsewhere. So you need to develop actually in that network whether it's so necessary, whether it might be better to rationalize it so that you can better cut down those personnel that are available. What I think is still needs to go with a certain actually better co-operation with the Ministry of the Interior, which is that we don't get those fugitives, actually when someone's given a powerful verdict or when someone's in criminal proceedings, and then he actually takes advantage of these possibilities running across the border. There are other laws. In the Law on Personal IDs, the Law on Travel Documents provides the possibility that in these various procedures to confiscate these travel documents in order to prevent this, I think there is no need for any of this law to have any nomotechnical intervention, but there is a need for good cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior in order to make them available with such information as is necessary. It's clearly a lot of objects,... Penitentiary, prison is a total of 21. [[You don't understand.]] Some are in good condition, some are in excellent condition, and some are in worse shape and need to keep working on the reconstruction, on the energy recovery that is being done, but it should actually continue on and on. So the Croatian Democratic Community will support the adoption of this law. I think it's a matter of conditions for better and better quality work and for the people themselves who work in the prison system, but as a society we better protect ourselves from actually those people who need to come there. We will also submit three amendments, which do not change the structure and essence of the law, but will correct certain provisions and you will see if it is acceptable for you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u29037	Thank you. Next debate on behalf of Representatives' Club Mosta zastavnik Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u29038	Thank you very much. If I understand correctly, the Secretary of State said that the total cost per prisoner is 400 kuna per day. I don't know if it can confirm 400 kuna to me even though it's a significant amount? And I really don't know who's making them lunch? It's not a Platter, is it? Or is it who? I don't know who? They're inside the prison system. Then it should, so there is a significant amount that is invested daily and I believe that the quality at this level is the quality of accommodation and capacity, and of course food and everything else. As I said at the beginning of the prison system in the Republic of Croatia, 12,000 people go somewhere inside the system. These people, mostly as I said in the Republic of Croatia, those who steal 10 million and more or are responsible for so many amounts at the end of a few days' worth of potatoes, are released until I set an example of our grandmothers who are on towels or markets selling onions somewhere on the side, a chapel, a rabble and so on can end up in prison. And now it's going to be accelerated a little bit, you're going to speed them up to get to jail as soon as possible. So we don't have to observe that prisons are always the worst there is. Justice and justice are completely different. We all need to strive for the right to be just, but in reality it is not. As far as the prison system is concerned, of course, there are the most important people like those who have a sentence, who do fines, and especially those who work in the prison system. This law provides for certain better conditions, especially for people who work, judicial officers and the like. And I was interested in this financial framework as much as is expected for these people doing demanding work, responsible work and hard work. Of course, there are also people who organize everything that is medically important. I see that health standards will increase within the penitentiary in cooperation with hospitals. However, the key problem is people within the system, as I said mainly people who are judicial officers who may have the worst and salaries in the Republic of Croatia, the lowest. I won't say the worst, the lowest wages for such a responsible job. And these people are allowed to have adequate pay. I'd like to go back to that frame of financial interest to the judicial officers again, that is. employees. Because this is a big deal. You may have thrown all over the prisoner 400 kuna and health care and nutrition and accommodation and whether all standards are met it is also very important whether the penitentiary has conditions. Whether to sleep according to the criteria prescribed. So there's meters square, I don't know toilets, sanitary knots and stuff. That's a question to ask now. If a man I've never been before had a chance to be in prison and we're all here in fact, every man can always make a mistake in one way or another and we're all basically there on some possible candidate that we'll be in those rooms mostly the smaller the stealers, they're much closer than the ones that steal so much more. That's our message, the more they steal, the more they'll peel potatoes and that's that one bad message. But, of course, everything that goes towards moving towards a better organisational standard of living for people who care about prisoners, we have to support it, because 400 kuna is exactly the kind of conditions within this diet I'm not sure about. Although I do have information that food is not very satisfying. It is now a matter of public procurement and the way it works in Croatia. It's unlikely that public procurement prescribed the same thing at Club 9 of Slavonski, so maybe who knows, instead of potatoes from like, potatoes come from Egypt. I think even domestic production would encourage you, who are responsible for domestic producers, along with what the prison system is producing, you said that there are some agricultural, organized breeding what cattle, which I guess is good. However, as regards public procurement, in order to include the OPGs domestically and possibly with domestic seed, not with this new law, where domestic seed is abolished, i.e. Seeds that if seeds can't get on the market, if you have traditionally domestic. Here's what I'm proposing. I could write an amendment if I could catch the time to make sure it's only domestic seed, to encourage domestic O.P.G.s through this way. Because it's just not like we have to use GMOs if it's such a directive. Once again, I expect that people in the prison system will rise up to them now, and especially to people who care about prisoners, which is very important, these are judicial cops. From what you've read, you've said an indicative of 400 kuna, I'm curious about what will be within which financial framework individually, and of course the overall financial framework for people who work in the prison system, and mainly for judicial officers. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u29039	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Ljubomir Kolarek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u29040	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretaries with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. This is a legal proposal that is not about as interesting as the current Law on Reconstruction that we have discussed here for nearly 13 hours, but the law is very important. It's important because it's part of a judicial system that deserves the attention of this government. Perhaps even crucial in ensuring citizens' trust in the institutions of the Republic of Croatia? The judiciary and the judiciary must be independent, effective, professional and fair in all parts, as well as in the prison system. As the legislator of this law provides for the equal position of all prisoners, raises the level of security of penitentiary and prisons, improves the conditions of enforcement, introduces new possibilities for discharging the pre-tracted conditions, and reduces the costs in the long term. In addition, conditions for health care are improved, especially in the prison system, prison system and public health systems. The prison hospital in Zagreb is arranged as a penitentiary with the status of a health institution, and the prison system connects with the central health information system of the Republic of Croatia. I am glad that the Union's opinion on improving the material rights of authorised officials has also been accepted and terms of height are equal to those of the police and Croatian military. It is also important for our prison system to adapt to the system of education and contact of prisoners to introduce new technologies. Visits or contacts of prisoners with family members will be possible through audio-video technology. As for the execution of the sentence, I think we should take care of the control system. Why? So that individual cases and individual bounces don't lead to media affairs and inscriptions that would actually collapse... the entire system is also important in view of the current situation with the pandemic that there has been a major delay in the execution of the prison if enforcement is not necessary in order to prevent the breach of the mark into the prison system. [[You don't understand.]] I welcome this bill with a message of independent, effective, professional and fair.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u29041	You have one replica. Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u29042	Thank you very much. You said what is and is the fact that part of the prison system is part of the judiciary, and Croatian citizens have the most mistrust in 5 things, I once told Mr. Sessa to the Supreme Court, it is the judiciary, so it is the second judiciary, so it is the third judiciary, so it is the fourth judiciary, so it is the fifth judiciary. So that the effect of the judiciary on development not only on Croatia, not only on what is happening in the penitentiary, because you believe that Croatia invests 12 thousand kunas annually. It's a piece of information for everyone... 400 kuna a day is for every prisoner and you really believe that such bad terms are in prison for 12,000 kuna. [[You don't understand.]] For 12 thousand kunas for our prisoners in our prisons we would have to be much, much better conditions so that the justice system itself has problems and the message means we invest a lot, and we give a little. So I believe that of this 400 kuna money per prisoner would make a much better message... our citizens and better conditions. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u29043	I believe colleague Bulj that this law will raise the level of trust to the judiciary and that the conditions in our penitentiary will be improved and raised to a higher level in order for health and safety in the penitentiary to be better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u29044	Thank you. We've exhausted the debate with this. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. I thank the Secretary of State and my associates. The last item of tonight's agenda is: Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission Please the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of Mr Robert Jankovics to submit a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u29050	Dear Mr. Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 11th session held on 20 January 2021 a written statement on the resignation of MP Darko Puljasic to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 15 January 2021. Article 10(1) The law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has been prescribed to suspend the term of office before the time to which he was elected should he resign. The commission found that Darko Puljašić began acting as representative in the 10th session of the Croatian Parliament on 22 July 2020. The Croatian Democratic Community pursuant to Article 42(2) The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament has appointed Nikola Mazara as deputy representative Darko Puljasic. The Commission found that the resignation of the agent Darko Puljasic, as well as the conditions for the start of acting as representative of Nikola Mazara, were laid down by law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on the Elections of MPs in the Croatian Parliament unanimously proposes to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of a Decision on the termination of the MP's term of office and the start of acting as deputy deputies, in accordance with Article 10(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Croatian Parliament's Rules of Procedure Darko Puljasic terminates the parliamentary term on the day the decision to terminate is made by the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with Article 9(2) of Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005, the European Parliament and the Council are to be appointed by the European Parliament and by the Council as representatives of the European Parliament and of the Council. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall begin and act when the Assembly determines the legal assumptions for the application of the Institute of Replacement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-20-0.u29051	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm opening a debate. No one's reported. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. So we continue tomorrow at 9.30 a.m. voting on the report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission and afterwards the proposal for a decision to declare an exclusive economic belt, a debate on amendments. Thank you very much. Good night! The session was interrupted in 20.35 hours.
