ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u27213	Now we will continue our work normally on the first day of the week of the plenary session, we have speeches of clubs and independent representatives, giving views. The first is a respected colleague, Veljko Kajtazi, who will speak for the Club of Representatives of National Minorities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u27214	... national minorities and as a representative of 12 national minorities and as a human. [[Specially enabled.]] On the occasion of the International Day of Remembrance of the victims of the Holocaust that we today marked with the state summit in Mirogoya, which I have spoken of countless times right here. More than 80 years since the beginning of II. svt. the war in Europe. The only message I want to send today is, I call on the government of the Republic of Croatia and all colleagues and fellow MPs, regardless of the party's membership to fully accept the proposal of the Jewish community and other victims' people to welcome the Ustasha mark and welcome, including "For Home Ready" by a fine law clearly prohibiting the example of the German law and to show together that we do not have to fear rumors of a radical and backward minority which most of our citizens do not support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u27215	Let's move on now it's the turn of the club of representatives of the HNS, the esteemed colleague of Ermina Lekaj Pruskaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u27216	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs, in recent days we have witnessed a number of painful statements today already grown women about sexual abuses they have experienced during their student days. Especially the monstrosity of these cases also contributes to the fact that this is also about the degradation of the most noble of all professions of the pedagogical. Young people who enter the school education process give their teachers full trust by believing that they are persons whose primary mission is intellectual and spiritual building of trusted students. On the contrary, in the place of professional and moral role models here we find individuals who abuse trust and authority in the most embarrassing way possible. Our schools instead of temples of knowledge become increasingly places where scandalous practices are tolerated from buying academic titles, nepotism, corruption until this humiliating act of sexual abuse and intimidation of students. Our universities should be places where tolerance, openness, professional ethics and high pedagogical standards are kept, as well as places where all participants of the educational process should especially feel safe and protected. Any forms of academic primitiveism, especially discrimination, violence and harassment, should be publicly foretold and condemned by the entire academic community, but also by the public. I believe that we are at a kind of turning point because if we go through all these testimonies and turn our head we will only further encourage the violent and give right to all those who consider it acceptable, and perhaps even desirable to enter into the integrity of the subordinates. We must openly say that the thugs who hide behind academic titles and positions are no prominent members of society but common cowards who fear revealing the truth. And for this very reason, I call upon all the victims to be encouraged and to show their abusers, and I call upon you here colleagues and colleagues to support them in this. On us lies a special responsibility for changing the social climate in a way that is not in the future stegmatizing the victim but that the bully is justly condemned. We must also look for more effective legal solutions to prevent, among other things, secondary victimisation and re-traumaticisation of the victim. Today we will discuss a document that should define our future over the next decade. But until we go into a decisive fight against violence Croatian society I am convinced will have no perspective. Violent behavior has deeply metastasized into social tissue, so the last moment is to regain consciousness and initiate the healing process together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u27217	Thank you. Let me tell you, there are five more reported, you're not free, another 5 registered clubs that means 25 minutes, it's up to 10.35 that you're planning your time, then at 10.45 we'll start with the first item of the agenda. So you know if it's over before then we'll take a little break. Here, here's a colleague of the Grbin on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u27236	Before today's debate, the president of HS warned us that today we are marking the Day of Remembrance of Holocaust Victims, the victims of one of the greatest crimes that mankind remembers. But unfortunately not on the victims of the only genocide that occurred in the 20th century, from genocide to Armenians in the early 20th century to the genocide that unfortunately hit our territory, our homeland of the 1990s was marked by terrible tragedies. And that's why the immensely important words of Prima Levia are recorded on the holocaust's memorial in Berlin, which they say happened, so it can happen again. And those words must warn us that it is our duty when we are warned to do everything that has happened, to which we have witnessed ourselves does not happen again, and it cannot remain just in beautiful words. The president of HS today was invoking a clear and loud message and there is not one word that the president of HS said, without me signing it, and I think there is no one in this House, or at least I hope there is no one who thinks otherwise. However, the time for words has passed with words should be changed to action. And that is why we in the SDP provide full support for the initiative directed by the Jewish municipality to finally pass in Croatia a law that today's words, a colleague of HS, will turn Jandrokovic into works, which is that we finally accept that we have been warned and that we cannot ignore as Mr. Pavlikek ignores what we see every day, which is the glorification of the Nazi, fascist, that and the Ustasha regime. It can't be acceptable in a modern state. So I'm going to say once again, full support of the Jewish community initiative, and I urge all of us in HS to consider today what happened to understand the warning we witnessed and not to let that happen again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u27310	Let's move on, fourth up is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and esteemed counterpart Marijan Pavliček, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u27311	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here's the first thing I need to do is look back at a free speech from my fellow Keatazi. I have not seen Ustasha and Ustasha features in Croatia in 2021. The only thing I see, I see members of Hos, I see their signs, and it's not a backward minority, it's people who are in '91. Mr. created this country, bled for this country, and allowed you to sit here with me and all the other MPs today. But let's get back to the subject. Dear Parliamentarians, I believe a good part of you has never heard of the place of Lovas. It is a pietous Slavonian Srijem village, which unfortunately suffered a great sacrifice in the Homeland War, but unfortunately because of the lack of the work of the Croatian judiciary, very few people in the Republic of Croatia heard of the minefield, the second largest mass grave in the Republic of Croatia, of numerous war crimes that took place there in '91. and '92. A year. I'm telling you this for a reason because last week at the Court of Appeal in Belgrade another shameful verdict was made against innocent Croats. Someone will say "Here's Pavlicek, again talking about war" but this is not a story of war, this is a story of justice, so on. Justice, O right, this is a story in the unhappiness of the Croatian judiciary and the Serbian judiciary. This is an example of how the judiciary works in the Republic of Croatia. In 2003, 18 years ago. in Vukovar, a criminal case against 18 war crimes in Lovas was brought before the county court. They were accused of harassing the innocent Croatian population, raping women, robbing them, having to wear white ribbons and sleeves like the Jews of David's star during the Nazi rule, sending them to a minefield where they had to go through the baby and when they stepped on the mines, a good part of them died, and the others were shot in the back. However, the only rightful verdict brought by the Vukovar court is the one that freed Ilija Vorkapic. A few years later, 2007. After the signing of the Cooperation Agreement on the persecution of war crimes perpetrators, crimes against humanity and genocide between the Republic of Serbia, the State Attorney General of the Republic of Serbia, the Lovas case, submitted to the war crimes prosecutor's office in the Republic of Serbia where 2007. There's a new indictment on the crime of war crimes against the civilian population. The indictment has been brought against 14 people, however, the question arises why has it not been brought against a much larger number of people who participated there, and why did the Croatian State Attorney's Office in the first indictment not bring charges against the citizens of the Republic of Serbia but only against the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who lived in Lovas until the Homeland War? After that, they start to change the charges on the pretext that every murder can't be found by the exact culprits. As amended by the 2011 indictment, the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Union (‘the Court of Justice’) of the European Union (‘the Court of Justice’) of the European Union (‘the Court of Justice’) of the 32 to 28, so that the final verdict of the accused would be found guilty of the death of only 19 people. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The first-degree court case lasted a little less than 5 years. 2012 The Council for High Court War Crimes in Belgrade reached a verdict where they were indicted and sentenced for 128 years. The prison for all 41 victims, but that same verdict a year later in 2013 is suspended and the trial is restored. Representatives of the court are changing, indictees are not coming to debates, 5 have passed away in the meantime and no one will ever be responsible for their crimes, in order to be in 2019. A senior court in Belgrade ruled that 8 indictees were found guilty and sentenced to prison sentences from 8 to 4 years. However, the Belgrade Court of Appeals ruled by appeal last week that it had amended the Supreme Court's verdict in Belgrade, and that indictee Zeljko Krnjajic and Milan Devcic were released from the charges, and that all other convicted persons were reduced by prison sentences even below the legal minimum. This is the most illustrious example of how justice works, 18. The way the job went he ended up, no one wondered how the victims of Lovas were feeling who went a little bit to make statements. They couldn't sleep and this is the best example of institution failure, both the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u27312	Thank you very much. We are now going to the 11th debate, Green-Left Block Representatives Club and Honorary colleague Sandra Bencic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u27372	I thank you, President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. “What would you be or what would you be” is a sentence that we Zagorci and Zagorke say as we are young and as we grow up to hear and consider a really benign question from our neighbours, Mom, Dad, teacher, teacher. And to such benign questions, we mainly and kindly answered “and the point would be this, the point would be that. ” We also believed that we could really be what we want to become without necessarily having to be members of a party or that we must necessarily be born with a golden spoon in our mouth. That's how we Zagorci and Zagorka used to grow up. Today, however, the question “what are you supposed to be” can lead right into the joint. You have to run away with your head no matter what, if you're asked by a highly positioned HDZ man. For example, these days Mr. Zarko Tušek openly offered independent councilman Simunic the achievement of the boy's wishes of every HDZ. You want to be vice president of the assembly? That's what I was supposed to be when I was little, vice president of the assembly. Or maybe the president, to make a deal. Do you want a Bear, Ivanstice, Velebit? It's okay, we'll fix it. Yeah, yeah, he's got a public tender, but you know how it goes, we'll handle it. Talks and negotiations by Mr. Tušek go so close. Boring lawyers would say that this is a crime of bribing MPs, however, our prime minister, but also a lawyer, but not from this boring species that would follow the law as a drunk, says it was a mistake, a clumsyness, or even an inexperience of a young perspective politician who takes what was recorded as the only criminal. That, as our President of the Parliament would say, I should paraphrasise him from another case "which was stupid", not because he offered something that was not his that he couldn't possibly have, not for it, but because he turned out to be more inexperienced than an ordinary independent councilman. That's what Prime Minister Tusek takes as a criminal. Prime Minister Plenkovic said the legal facts in this case are significantly different from the Sabo case, so let's see what legal facts are significantly different, two. The name and the name of the representative, so one is called Željko Sabo, which is very different from the name Žarko Tušek, shares the first letter, everything else is different. And of course, the party's name, one is HDZ, the other is SDP, the only common letter is "d" for democracy, but who cares about both "d" and democracy? One Plenkovic sentence about this case "what would you be when you grow as big as HDZ", says absolutely everything. He said yesterday dead-cold if he'd been more careful, that wouldn't have happened. That's how the columnist against corruption sees it. If Tušek had been more careful, if he had applied the rules of the club in Slovenia 9 that the phones were left outside at the entrance and they never carry where you talk and negotiate, there would be no such thing. Because that's what corruption in HDZ only happens when it's found out, otherwise it's called business assual. And now you tell me who should resign here? Tušek, who traded functions the way you taught him in the party, you who are bigger and more experienced or his party boss who punishes the crime of bribing MPs and playing the rules of choice called peas, and justice by naiveness and youth and claims to see no responsibility. The great stegonist accuses honest councilman Simunic of lured HDZs and forced poor Tušek into a siege. So it's Simunic's fault, it's not Tušek's fault. We are here seriously concerned about the survival of this constituency because of the speed you're losing MPs. In just a few months, we discussed the entire diapazon of the criminal acts of HDZ representatives who are at all times proportionate in the HDZ food chain. Land refurbishing bottom layer of the chain, setting up tenders for construction works lower and middle layer, setting up public functions and bribing middle echelon representatives and HLN energy corruption only for the chosen ones. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u27416	Let's move on, now it's the House of Homeland and Honored colleague Davor Dretar's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u27417	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. Croatian public. I am not ashamed, so says a very high-ranking HDZ member from Krapina-Zagorian County. What's going through his words? The true nature of the perception of politics, those, its parties, but unfortunately its own. It penetrates the knowledge that they are unable to distinguish correct political behaviour and work for the common good, from murky, unfair and corrupt actions such as offering jobs in peaceful and not particularly demanding waters of state or public services. The state center for the detection of corrupt shops equipped with the most modern AP-70 radar model has failed again. Yesterday the Prime Minister told us, the opposition will use this. It doesn't have to be, of course, particularly creative in taking advantage of a chance like this, but no, we're not gonna take advantage of this. I hope honestly, Croatian people, that you will use this. Especially in the upcoming local elections. We've heard a great spin, so a parliamentary representative can't offer something beyond the scope of his ingenuity. He doesn't have any position in the county. What's that supposed to mean? If he didn't offer anything, if he had offered something, if he had talked about what it would be, if it were, or perhaps, the simplest thing, if he had negotiated on behalf of whoever sent him there, someone who had authority outside of a simple mayor or a simple parliamentary representative, but if we could find such a person at all, I'm sure he would say, I didn't know. He sinceres the congratulations and the councilman Simunic. I am convinced that this is what he did out of honorable intentions, which I hope will prove soon before the competent institutions, but in particular, we were all horrified by last night's performance of a lawyer who almost called for the criminal persecution of the City of Oroslavje councilman for the unauthorized recording and delivery of the same footage to the media. I'm not ashamed. I'll tell you again. Because, unfortunately, it shows how the ruling is holding in the hands of all the ends of this country and they're not ashamed even when they get caught. They can't understand that you can do better, fairer and fairer. We have recently listened to Mr Puljasic and Pilon explain to Joseph Knight that in their position, I quote, politically installed and that, on their orders, he can also be deinstalled, i.e. removed, if he does not bow his head with the will of his bosses. And yesterday, there's a new, first-class hit from the HDZ record company that currently has more recorded material than any domestic musician. Investments in the state service are offered, illegal payment of promotional expenses, but I have to continue with another cry, but that's not all. Unfortunately for me, on just a few Internet clicks, there's something else behind this soundtrack affair. The entire mountain of bargaining, hiring using party cards, setting up jobs, murky corruptions and dishonest deeds is revealed. In 2012, MP Tušek called a press conference and said that the then SDP mayor of Sonja Borovčak hired half of her family at social care centres and the Institute of Public Health of Krapina-Zagorje County. I'm not talking about the justification of these lawsuits right now. Just 7 years after the press of the nepotism fighter, so in 2019, already the leading man of Krapina-Zagorje County for HDZ, Mr. Zarko Tušek at the state-run company Nationale novine employs the mysterious Tajan of the same last name, and next to it in the armchairs of the company is sitting and the head of the municipality of Zagorje, president of the Youth HDZ in Zagorje, one assembly head of the county assembly, becoming a politologist by profession, all of the ranks of members of one single party. But unfortunately, that's not all. Just a few clicks away below the layers of decay of this affair sees another layer equally rotten and repulsive. Only a few years older, when the SDP and HNS were in power, in the National Journal were equally party personneled, bought Chinese umbrellas and other bofl goods, paid in multimillion amounts, and the goods unsold rotted in warehouses, powerful and similar collected commissions. So they're equal to each other. And Zagorka and Zagorci, I address you in particular, do not forget, how those who lead both Croatia and Zagorje view you, and especially how they behave and what they say when caught in wicked acts. Forget it, they're not ashamed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u27418	Thank you very much. Let's move on, now it's time for a respected colleague, Marijana Puljak, on behalf of the Center and GLAS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u27490	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I am not going to talk today about the case that would harm Tušek because it is somehow not new to me but old and continuously normal that Croatia has held captive for 30 years. Today I will speak and present the extracts from an open letter to Minister Butković, which has already been sent, has more than a month with observations on how to build the Omis bypass and the Trogir fast road, i.e. Stobreč-Omis. I promised the Minister I'd come regularly with questions about that road we've been waiting for, and almost 50 years. Currently, the cliff is being resuscitated as part of the construction of the long-awaited bypass, the Croatian roads insist on closing the canyon section of DC-70 through Zakučac near Omis, with the transfer of passengers and vehicles by Ro-Ro boat via Cetina instead of primarily building a fox tunnel that would permanently solve many of the problems of citizens and businessmen from the field of Poljic and Omis. Once again, I appeal to all those responsible in the Croatian roads to join the outbreak of the mentioned tunnel through the Fox because it is the only way they can meet, not only the needs of the citizens but also the requirements of the profession of the city of Omis for the correction of the project. Prioritizing the construction of this tunnel by a hasty procedure would satisfy finally and sound reason, which requires the need to avoid direct and indirect adverse consequences wherever possible and thus unnecessary costs per state budget. All the opposite is a direct blow to the profession, common sense and the state budget for which one should ultimately be held accountable. The path of the future fast road from Stobrec to Omis has been designed over the course of 50 years countless times. Now we have a truly rationalized version of the new multimodal platform of Split agglomeration, which is all just not rational. It is interesting to conclude that the rationalisation of the mentioned route has created the same design house IGH, which is the author of its basic version, and it is logical to conclude that it is also the culprit that is the original project solution irrational even though the course has been projected within the same corridor for decades. So the copy-paste method and they repeatedly charged it to taxpayers. If this isn't a typical example of corruption, then we have to ask ourselves what it is. It seems that no one cares about the savings but on the contrary, to the greater cost to which he testifies, and to the example of digging up the Omis tunnel conveniently called "From Nothing to Nothing" in which our 230 million budgets have been frozen for years. So I'm using the opportunity, it's not an excuse to warn myself of some lack of project solutions of the D8 Stobreč-Omiš road, which in the last 50 years, as I said myself, for who knows which time it is projected again in the same corridor and I suggest the following, or in that open letter, we propose the following. Suspension of the latest rationalisation of the multimodality of the project because it has long existed in the basic settings and corridor of the project of the fast road Trogir-Omis from the 1980s. Approved projects to build a bypass of Omis, whose implementation is under way, agree with the proposals to amend the city of Omis and County's spatial plans, to throw out of the plan the project inappropriate location of the ferry port in Krilo Jesenice because there are therefore no legitimate reasons or spatial conditions. For the needs of a ferry port, consider the location in the Long War where the coast already exists with the necessary manipulative space. Mr. Minister, you have received much more details and suggestions in this open letter, please analyse and respond. The fast road Trogir-Omis deserves it and we haven't found it in the National Development Strategy unless you think it's under the promotion of smart solutions, also refers to this road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u27563	We are now going to the last debate, dear colleague Tomislav Klaric on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u27564	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs, listening to the debate, I asked myself a question as to what it would look like when some video of the negotiations appeared, for example, We can, the SDP when they discussed who would be the mayor of Zagreb. We've heard a lot of things here and everything, but I'd rather look back at something that's very little to talk about, which is not at all talked about, and when the story is always in the context of something that's good, it's kind of called an affair. I am saying this because in the Croatian past it has not been recorded that in so little time because years, two, three or four have really made little time and started so many investments, that so many projects have been carried out and so much money has been invested in just a few years, as is exactly the fact that Croatia is doing today. It is amazing and amazing that the construction, out of 555 municipalities and cities and counties across Croatia, has none without launching projects, attracts European funds and does not build infrastructure. A wave of investments has been launched, huge infrastructure projects have been carried out and 25 billion kuna is currently being invested. We're dealing with some sort of video that needs to be discussed, but how important they are in all of this that we're talking about. We live in a time when our citizens are showered with this kind of news from day to day of negativity, at times when crises break out of every pores, there's a lot of fear, concerns about the times ahead. The earthquake, the lockdown, the second earthquake, everything that could have happened in the past. But isn't it news that is optimistic for Croatian citizens, but also for all of us who are here that 100% attracted, agreed cohesion funds, 95% from CEFA 25 billion kuna? These projects right now in times of crisis and anxiety need more than ever. The anthills are on construction sites all over Croatia from Dubrovnik and Pelješko Bridge across Croatia, the Učka tunnel is being breached, the hospitals are being built, the water infrastructure is being arranged, the two-way line is moving, it could be listed like this all day. Just for example. Croatian realities, and I don't have much time, I'm going to highlight the LNG project because it's just a link and what we just heard about. We remember how it all started, we remember how much we listened to criticism, plantings, lawsuits, watching, listening to politics, brilliantly reflected project, in record time from malice, at 800 meters above sea level built by the MRS to the seashore, and by the underwater pipeline towards Šil to Omis, the LNG boat mooring. Total investment of EUR 253 million, of which EUR 101.4 million of grants. They claimed the pipeline would be empty, here we listened to it, here we heard that the pipeline would be empty. Look at the wonders, as promised on January 1, 2021, the gas started with that pipeline. And not only did it start 100% of that pipeline's capacity but it was leased over the next three years, leased. They said it would be empty, it was a waste of money. Only on board, the floating terminal employs 60 coasters, sailors who once made their bread around the world, and for 6-7 months they haven't seen their families, are now here in Omislje. 24 of them on land, and there are guards. And what we got with that pipeline, with the pipeline that we have, what we get with the Učka tunnel, with the highways, with the two-wheel rail, with the Zagreb-Rjeka railway which It's projecting. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] We're becoming the economic center of this part of Europe, and we're surprised at that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u27565	This brings us to the end of the position of clubs and independent representatives, 38 of it is we will give it to 10.50 a break, we already have 45 registered speakers so there will be quite a long debate over the national development strategy. I'll see you at 10.50. It's 10.38 o'clock. We are now going to another club of representatives, it is the Club of Representatives of the Mosta, a respected colleague of the Zvonimir Troscott. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u27666	Dear president of HS, respected colleagues and fellow MPs and respected citizens of the Republic of Croatia who follow us through the screen. Let me start today's speech with a brief analysis of the situation in society. The 2 earthquakes that we hit last year, as well as the coronary virus pandemic, have exposed all the weakness of our government and the ruling HDZ. In addition to the traditional corruption, nepotism and haughtiness we can witness almost every week, the past year has revealed all the inability of the ruling to organise and run the system in a serious, responsible and quality way for the good of the citizens who chose them for this position. It is sad that today we get the impression that as a society, we are used to everyday corruption affairs, accepting them as a phenomenon that is common, expected and normal for those who are in power, as if we do not realize that just such perverse patterns of behavior destroy only the tissues of our homeland and society. Do we understand the moment we're in? Do we recognize that the politicians who most swear on their patriotism are the least concerned about their people and their homeland? Croatia is a tired country today. Tired of all the great promises. Tired of announcing deep reforms that are forgotten under the rush of always new and different affairs, but always with that denominator. HDZ. Tired of accusations without epilogues, she is tired of the calculator's moves ahead of the elections, as will the reconstruction of Zagreb, behold, wonders, start right before the local elections. We want a renovation yesterday. Are we asking too much when we require safe passages to kindergarten and school for our children? When do we ask kindergartens and schools to be safe places? Are we not right when we suggest that we follow the example of other countries that are better and more justly organized to fight the pandemic? In a way that enables families to work and to exercise one of their fundamental Constitution-guaranteed rights. It's time, gentlemen, to wake up and realize that we need an emergency opening of the economy and catering facilities. We need to get back to normal life. Also, are we too ambitious when we propose economic measures and reforms that have been proven worldwide as enforceable and good for the material status of people? And today you'll have such a proposal in front of you. We ask for the suspension of the mandatory membership fee to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. We are the only country in the EU that has socialism and that still has a mandatory membership chamber. Publicly available data indicate that the Chamber is inefficient, insufficiently competent and serves exclusively to entangle party listeners. The HGK should be placed on the market to be chosen by the quality of the service for its membership fees, and if it is not able, it will be replaced by someone who is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u27722	Dear MPs and MPs, before we move to regular work, I would like to tell you that today we are marking the International Day of Remembrance of Holocaust Victims. This morning, on behalf of the Republic of Croatia, together with representatives of the Jewish community in Croatia and the Embassy of the state of Israel, we laid a crown at the monument of Moses in Mirogoya. In this symbolic act, we have given deep respect for each individual innocent victim, and we have also condemned the Nazi and fascist regime and their criminal character. On this day 76 years ago, Auschwitz was freed, this infamous place symbolized all other places where genocide was committed over six million members of the Jewish people, but also the systematic extermination of other unwanted groups whose only sin was that they were not members of the so-called. The Aryan race, this monstrous concept of Nazi ideology. Unfortunately, Auschwitz also reminds us of camps such as Jasenovac and Stara Gradiška where during the criminal regime NDH many innocent people are Jews, Roma, Serbs, but also Croats were deported, tortured and killed. However, it is always important to stress that most of the Croatian people have stood up against such fascist policies and have sided with the winners in II. World War I. International Day of Remembrance of Holocaust Victims declared by UN Nations in 2005 It reminds us of the inhumanity and evil holocaust, the planned extermination of the entire Jewish people. The goal that was designed and implemented has brought into question the meaning of the existence of a human being, and I have rocked the foundation of our humanity. Today we remember six million innocent victims, but we honor both all survivors and their families who witness today what is a Holocaust, what are its consequences and what lessons we can learn from it. Most of them, in their testimony to the question of what was worse for them than death and torture during this inhumane reason, gave up humiliation because they had no names, did not exist as human beings, but were tattooed number on the hand to be eliminated. Therefore, it is our obligation to all the victims of the Holocaust never to forget them and not to let them down, and that is what we will do only if we learn from this terrible past and prevent it from happening again. The Holocaust still asks a question 76 years later, why did this happen and what caused it? It seems incomprehensible to the normal human mind, but it's precisely why it's our obligation to understand why something like that was possible. One of the survivors, winner of the Nobel Prize, dedicated his entire life to teaching the holocaust, Professor. Elie Wiesel reminds us that the holocaust is a timely tale of warning as many terrible consequences as it has. The Holocaust must remind us that what is unimaginable is always possible and that it is therefore our duty to continue to look for answers to questions, what makes people vulnerable to hatred, anti-Semitism or indifference, how we can become better at listening to one another with empathy, humility and compassion, especially with those who look different, pray and think, how to promote social cohesion in improving the common good and seeking common values beyond differences, how to identify those who offer false and simple solutions to complex problems and ultimately, how to take personal responsibility for the future. The history of the holocaust teaches us that each individual in good and evil has more power than he thinks, that this is how the righteous among the nations testify, these people chose to be on the side of good, and by taking personal responsibility they saved many lives. Among them are 120 brave people from Croatia, they are proof that moral power and personal conscience can prevail. Dear MPs and MPs, the history of the Holocaust is very relevant for today's era. We live in a time of unprecedented rapid change, a 21st century challenge has begun with the fight against growing terrorism, the technological revolution and a serious economic recession. Today, however, the whole world is fighting against the pandemic and all the challenges of its serious negative consequences. History has taught us that societies are particularly vulnerable in times of rapid change and crisis, Nazi ideology has been skillful in applying the latest technologies along with a dangerous mixture of propaganda, terror, fear and law, and this must be a warning to us. Democracy is not given in itself, we must guard democracy. Evil is around us and we must recognize him and win. Let us only remember the recent crimes committed in the name of the great Serbian ideology in Srebrenica, Vukovar and Škabrnji, and technological progress does not mean moral progress, we must especially remember today when we are having a number of discussions on historical truths, about the relationship of freedom and accountability, freedom of speech and hate speech, abuse of technological progress, etc. For all these discussions, we need a historical perspective of critical thinking and especially moral firmness. In today's vulnerable democratic atmosphere, we must remain attached to historical truth and condemnation and the fight against any form of denial of the existence of the Holocaust and its politicization and constantly strengthen the fundamental values on which democratic societies rest, such as freedom, peace, tolerance, acceptance of diversity, mutual understanding and trust, solidarity and respect for every man and his dignity. This collective knowledge will suppress evil, hatred, prejudice, enmity and indifference from which many forms of radical behaviour of different political edifices arise, and thus we must learn our younger generations. Last year HS adopted the Work definition of anti-Semitism, so I call on you to promote and strengthen its fundamental principles and values daily. Thank you. Now I call upon you to pay tribute to all the victims of the Holocaust for a moment of silence so that these terrible crimes will never be repeated again. - A moment of silence - May their glory be eternal and thank them. Third debate, dear colleague Milorad Pupovac on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u27733	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm not going to talk about a subject that my colleague Kajtazi spoke of on behalf of the national minorities, but I agree with what he said in his brief address. What I want to talk about is what to do next that the earthquake-affected areas are treated as they deserve. Namely, after a strong and devastating earthquake in the impoverished area of the Republic of Croatia, Sisak-Moslavina and the work of the Carlovina County, there was an eruption of solidarity between our citizens. All ages, all areas of the country, all political beliefs, every social status. There has been solidarity of countries in our neighbourhood with which we do not have the best relations in Europe and Europe as a whole. And it was touching to feel and moving to see. I'd like to thank all those people I've met in the last few weeks in the area of Bania and in the area of Kordun. Secondly, we expect from the EU Solidarity Fund that we will provide funds or most of the funds for everything we need to do and that is to restore houses, infrastructure, economic facilities. Any development. It's not realistic that we're going to get everything these people need because they're not just hit by an earthquake in those few days, they've been hit by war destruction on the one hand for 30 years and poverty and neglect on the other. It is not the only area in Croatia. 15 minutes from Zadar, you'll find something like that. 20 or 10 minutes from Sibenik, like that. So here, for 20 minutes or 30 minutes from Zagreb, we meet similar, poverty that is inconceivable for a country like ours. And at the same time, the potentials these ends have, which they had throughout their history, not so long ago, that it's completely untapped. The country's security and security reasons require that we start thinking differently. The possibility of a lasting restoration of life, a sustainable renewal of life, requires that we start thinking differently. Here I'm just going to point out how the SDSS Club is thinking and we want to share it with you colleagues and colleagues, regardless of which club you belong, whether the ruling majority or opposition is shared. I want us to try to come to an agreement about it. I want what has proved to be an eruption of the solidarity of our fellow citizens and, on the other hand, expectations of European solidarity, to be built in and develop our governance mechanism, solidarity management, solidarity management of the development process and there are mechanisms for this. I'm not going to explain it to them in detail. Only if we were to separate 0.36% of income, a million and 527 000 employees in the Republic of Croatia, in a year we would have 600 and some million kunas at our disposal. 50 and some million kunas at the moon level. Of the funds we're counting on to get from the EU this 111 million, it's about 800, it's not little, it's millions of kuna. But if I were to add this, I'm only talking about the minimum, if we went to 0.7%, it would go over a billion a year. My colleagues and colleagues, I invite you to consider how to make this country shows that he has a state that manages his financial resources and his emotional [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] and financial solidarity which is obviously unquestionable. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u27734	Thank you very much, fellow Pupovac. Let's move on, now it's time for a respected colleague, Katarina Peovic, to be an independent representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u27746	Good afternoon. Before I move on to the subject of free speech, I would warn viewers and viewers in front of small screens of dangerous discrimination happening in HS. Opposition representatives and MPs have often talked about different clubs di privileged ruling politicians gather, but clubs exist as well as in the assembly and all club members, MPs and MPs have as much as four times as possible speeches from those who are not in a club. I am warning this so that those 5700 voters who gave me the preferential vote would warn why they would look at me four times less for this pay phone, and some who received a few hundred votes much more. However, the Workers' Front and I will do everything possible to ensure that this discrimination is not felt and that we talk about what is very rarely spoken of in this assembly, which is workers, workers and workers' rights. This is why I need to first and I want to give my support to the newly established headquarters in Trogir where the Brodotrogira workers organized themselves because they did not receive salaries for more than half a year, and their problems began before 2.g. with no payout, and we could say even 2013 Since Brodotrogir was privatized. Why Brodotrogir is important we will also see today when we are going to talk about the National Development Strategy, precisely because Brodotrogir represents an illustrative example of why this strategy is not good and how we will take any step if we repeat those things that led us to the beginning of Europe. The example of Brodotrogira illustrates the thoughtfulness of the adoption of the National Development Strategy by 2030. Because this strategy neither analyzes previous documents, nor analyzes examples such as Brodotrogir that brought us to the beginning of Europe. These are the economic measures that we are going to repeat here, thus continuing abandoning support to large economic operators, reducing the country's economic impact, increasing the share of the private sector, the famous flexibility of the labour market, all the opportunities therefore related to industries that have multiplicity effects on the economy, so industry large economic operators that have the possibility to draw on themselves other industries and to launch this famously small and medium-sized entrepreneurship on which we focus, such as in Germany, have not been able to shut down those branches that have, therefore, had the potential to connect production and value chains through industrial policies, in order to increase the share of domestic components in products and services. The result is a huge deficit in trade with the EU of 60 billion kuna, which grew 6% in 2019 compared to 2018 and which will only grow. Here in the strategy we are talking about great optimistic moves to increase gross national product, increase employment, but we are not talking about how we will do it if we repeat the same policies that led us where we are. Industrial production in the Republic of Croatia dropped 2% every year. So in the 10th month of last year, compared to the year before 2%, and that trend continues year after year. So, on the other hand, policies that could increase productivity, but only through state intervention and protection, which have proved to be a successful means of getting out of the position of underdeveloped countries and economies that have, in addition, led these large-scale economies to places, the first places in Europe, are declared as irrational and illicit in this strategy. Croatia, unfortunately, thus its competitiveness is based on the so-called internal devaluation of labour price reductions and job cuts, leaving low added value activities, low paid simple jobs with average working hours above the EU average, etc. Servant of the economy means a servant economy that does not have the possibility of development. So today we're going to talk about this strategy, and I'm inviting you to remember a Shiptrogir worker, to remember an oil worker while you read those guidelines that we're reading along the way. pay EUR 4.3 billion. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u27754	Let's move on, now it's time for the club of representatives of HSS and HSU's esteemed colleague, Kresho Beljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u27755	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS. My colleagues and fellow Parliamentarians. I will rest in my position about what my colleague Kajtazi said and especially Mr. Grbin, so by supporting everything they have said, I will only hope to support the words of course of Mr. Jandrokovic's Parliament president. But I must also point out that in this country things happen that are not surprising but dangerous at least, are not dangerous individuals, are not dangerous minorities that glorify Ustasha, Nazi, fascist regimes. It happened to me personally that because of the attacks, the verbal attack on fascists, I was being prosecuted by the DORH, not by the political party, not by a group of individuals, not by non-equivocalsts, and by the reason that I was insulting the feelings of fascists, their worldview and the political belief that I called fascism. So that's what the Croatian state does through the DORH and that's something that's worrying, that's something that HS must fight as a legislator. In that sense, it's not an exception, it's a rule. One thing is when someone yells "For Home Ready", it can be a crime, I advocate it to be a crime, but so far it just isn't. And the second is when the DORH starts or, in my case, a misdemeanor procedure because I insulted the worldview and the political belief of fascists. Fortunately, the court has reached an acquittal, but if DORH had done so by someone in private, I would have understood, but the DORH did. When dealing with such trinkets that embarrass the Croatian state, of course they don't have time for those things to deal with. The case of Slavica lasted 14 years, what has the Croatian state and Croatian judiciary done to this man and his family? 14 years. Tušek, Sabo's links were already spoken of, written, I expect at the very least to be treated the same as was done in the Saba case are these identical cases. But almost the same case I personally reported to the DORH more than two years ago, and it was about the purchase, or what is being targeted at the burden of parliamentary representatives, members of the City of Zagreb Assembly more than two years ago, I didn't get any answers until today. Of course, when dealing with things like this that are not only petty that they are nonsense but also difficult and profoundly compromise the shame of the Republic of Croatia that they should represent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29472	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.54 HOURS]] I also ask the gentlemen and the ladies of the media to allow us to continue our work. - Proposal for a National Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia until 2030 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Art. 172. Rules of Procedure concerning Art. 52. The Law on the Strategic Planning and Development Management System of the Republic of Croatia. The debate was conducted by the Committee on European Affairs, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Economics, the Committee on Health and Social Policy, the Committee on Regional Development of EU Funds, the Committee on Labour, the Pension System and the Social Partnership and the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. I will now ask the proposer's representative to give an additional explanation, with us is the Honorable Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Go ahead, Prime Minister. Yeah, wait a minute, I see we already have requests for a break, the first fellow coat of arms, here you go. [[Step from the bench: The coat of arms is looking for a break]] Just, wait a minute, this is how you colleagues and colleagues, you raise your lines, you raise your hands, I don't know what anyone's looking for, so are there any more interested in taking a break? We can see it now, colleague of the Dark-Taritash. Is anyone else picking up? No, I don't. Okay. And then we'll have the replicas, colleague Tomašević, too, colleague Tomašević. Okay, replicas later when the show starts. Here's a colleague of the coat of arms. A fellow Pavić is the same fourth.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29473	I thank the esteemed Mr. President HS, Mr. Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, dear colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, I am asking for a 10-minute break in order to point out once again before the start of this debate the problems of drawing up the National Strategy. I'm not just going to talk about how the price of making the National Development Strategy is beyond all frameworks, I'm not going to talk about just saying this one side of the development strategy, just one that relates to corruption as if corruption is especially not a burning problem in the Republic of Croatia, this one page costs 230,000 kuna, I'm not going to talk about it alone, I'm going to talk about a much bigger problem of the National Development Strategy. This document should have been a document for all Croatian citizens and citizens for the entire Republic of Croatia and should have determined how our country will develop in the next 10 years. The idea was to make it, and then control the implementation of this document including everyone. Unfortunately, HS was excluded from this document, which also excluded the opposition in HS. We asked for more HS representatives to be involved in the committee that will be in charge of making the strategy, you refused. We will now repeat this request because this committee is not only overseeing the creation of a strategy but also how it will be implemented, how it will be changed, how other documents will be brought about for planning Croatia's future. If we want this document to be a document for all of us, not just the ruling majority, you will accept this request. Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29474	The apartment is approved. Now it's time for a colleague of the Dark-Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29475	Thank you very much, esteemed President HS, Mr. Plenkovic, the prime minister. On behalf of Clubs Center and GLAS, please pause for 10 minutes. We are absolutely aware that this strategy is one of the most important documents to be adopted, which we need to discuss. This is a strategy for the development of the Republic of Croatia by 2030. It should answer 3 key questions, which is where we want to be 2030, how are we going to do it, and how are we going to do it? And that on the theoretical level seems quite all right. But when you read this document and you see that it does not answer these three key questions. Moreover, the proposal for this strategy is somehow in the sense of Alan Ford’s conclusions “if you want to win, you must not lose” or “better to live 100.g. as a millionaire than seven days in misery." Unfortunately, this document should neither be fun nor entertainment, it should be Croatia's direction for the next 10 years, not for 30 years, not for 100 years, not for some irrational future, for the next 10 years. which are tomorrow and what we appreciate is that unfortunately, it didn't work out. This document is a list of general places, good wishes with a series of illogicalities, and local, I would say pure madness and this document is no indication of any serious development. We have no problem that the national strategy is a roof strategy from which a number of other strategies will come out. But it's not that simple. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29476	The apartment is approved. Now it's my dear colleague Tomislav Tomašević, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29477	Thank you. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Green-Left Block Club. In fact, this should be the most important strategic document that adopts this assembly. We have been waiting for him, and the Croatian public for 3 years, it cost more than 30 million kuna, although no one knows why it cost more than 30 million kuna, and now that I'm reading it, we also don't see the reasons for it. We've been waiting for him here for three months in the assembly, and in the end we have one roof strategic document according to which all the strategies in Croatia should be dealt with and brought in line with this document, which is not even in line with the Strategic Planning System Act. Namely, this document, we will talk about the content later in the debate but the very form itself is working, this document has a list of objectives, and that there is no activity at all, any strategic projects that should be according to the law, or financial indicators of how much it will cost to go in that direction and achieve those objectives. So it's like setting a goal to climb Mount Everest without telling which route you're going to get to Mount Everest, with no resources, because if that's not there then you're just left with a list of empty targets. So it's about the state of this document. So-called The priorities listed in this strategy are ridiculous because they are so general that it is not clear at all what activities, how the activities and work of the state administration will change to achieve these objectives. So, indeed, compared to how much we have been waiting for, how many late operational programmes to withdraw money from the EU, according to which, which should be in line with this strategic document, it is amazing that in the end, this is exactly the general document put before us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29478	The apartment is approved. Now it's time for my colleague Pavić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29479	Thank you very much. Dear President, Prime Minister, I request a break on behalf of the HDZ Club to further consult on the first strategic document at national level in the Republic of Croatia. This is the roof strategy document of the first of its kind and as such is no different from any of the strategies of Ireland which is on 130 pages, the development strategy of Slovenia by 2030 or any other document of the other European countries. Once again, over 2,000 people were included in the strategy, 32 million kuna cost the process of making all the bases worked by the World Bank, 79 strategies of national and local will result in what you have in addition to the national development strategy itself and 1000 pages of the basis that I believe and that the Minister today can show are the product of the work of 2,000 people over a period of several years. It was a participatory process that lasted several years, which was launched by Minister Žalac, and I continued the minister on behalf of the government Tramišak ends. The Parliament will follow the report of 23 indicators once a year. In the debate each indicator will clearly explain why it is there, which is its purpose and that the strategy on the other hand is ambitious, and on the other hand real and realistic. The representative of the assembly in the governing body was me as chairman of the parent board, was Mr Lerotić as my deputy on the board who was also part of the opposition, therefore all of these arguments that you pointed out in the breaks absolutely do not stand. This is a modern document that will show Croatia's vision by 2030. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29480	The apartment is approved. Now it's up to my colleague Hrelja, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29481	Dear Mr. President, on behalf of the HSS and HSU Club, I request a 10-minute recess to take views in light of the latest information on the development of this national development strategy. What we believe, we believe, is that given that the work on it started 3 years ago, that a large number of people were involved, that children who in some way proposed the slogan of Croatia in 2030 were included in the way that they wanted Croatia, which by then will already be age-old, will have the right to vote, then for one such serious document we join all those who think and who suggest that this should go in two readings in the Croatian Parliament, that as many unknowns as possible be enlightened and that the answer to as many questions as possible. As a man who has worked in large systems that I have been in politics for a long time, I know what is wrong with our policy all these years, and we are not doing well with the philosophical adoption of laws and strategies that are unrelated and it would be natural for this strategy to have added minimum indications of national plans in certain areas. I'm not saying working out the details, but at least what part of it is that, which is going to be done in the sense that we know how to focus on the problem and that we know it, that we know how to track it. This is one big, beautiful fairy tale with lots of beautiful words that will be very, very hard Follow and evaluate. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29482	Stanka's been approved to you, too. Here you go, fellow Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29483	Dear Sirs, I'm asking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club for the reason that we have a document on 153 pages in front of us today, which includes, the content where it has deviated from academic recommendations, the font is 14 so that there are so many pages, in which there are 1,000 beautiful wishes and there is actually nothing concrete, in which we can see that the government has remained in the economic past, and even there is no quality analysis of the past, in which there are no concrete measures, there are no even concrete parameters to measure the success of such a strategy. We can also see that in this document we cannot find any solution to the burning problems of Croatia, the type of corruption, the crown of partner capitalism. Finally, when you see all of this, then you actually know and it's the only logical conclusion that this is made form does. So we need some kind of strategy to withdraw 22 billion kuna from the European Funds, so let's just say we don't need to make a circus, we need a form. But if she needed form already, why has she been waiting three years with form? It's all in there and nothing, we've been waiting for three years, late action plans, late-onset projects. We are already behind on withdrawing funds for a year, why and why has this finally not been done by the Croatian profession? Are you telling me we don't have any Croatian experts who can do this better than the alleged World Bank? That's my question to you. I am convinced that in Croatian society, in Croatian science, academic science there are people who can do 10 times better and do better than what the World Bank has done. which we'll end up paying 32 million kuna. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29484	Thank you very much. Stanka's been approved to you, too. And let's go on final request, colleague Bartulica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29485	Thank you. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Homeland Movement for the same reason that we should consult further on this document. It's hard to figure out why and how this cost 30 million kuna or more. We often point out that we already have a huge, inefficient public administration, and now because of this National Strategy, we have another case of outsourcing where others are given to create these strategic topics for our country and its development. I think it's a finding that this public administration of ours works in some parallel world. We know what the contests look like, how the rulings use this institute to furniture jobs similar to and various interest groups, all at the expense of actually general interest. Also, with regard to the management of our resources and the number of public enterprises in which the state operates, I would say that the Podravka case again shows that we have not strayed from the old way of thinking. Why is it a political question who will run this company? We believe that Chocolate, including Vegeta, are not strategic products, that the government should not do this, but focus on other things. So the logic that permeates this whole document is that the state needs this, needs more work, and actually the key is the solution is the opposite. It takes less politics, less state presence to free people to create for themselves and for the family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29486	Thank you. Stanka approves, but now I'm going to apply for an article. 293.b so that we will continue to work immediately and I therefore call on the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic, to address on behalf of the motionary, for 20 minutes. Please, I see you're already picking up your lines and just holding on until your colleagues see you. All right, here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29487	Good afternoon, everyone. 20 and some replicas on a good day, that's, I mean a record in HS over the last four and a half years. The esteemed head of the HS, respected co-workers of ministers and ministers, respected MPs and MPs. Ladies and gentlemen, today it is my pleasure to present the National Development Strategy until 2030, a roof strategic document for the development of Croatia. The strategy is the result of a thorough work of the Government, ministries, professional and academic community, the private sector, social partners and the interested public during the consultation. In the fourth decade of Croatia's statehood after resolving many issues of Croatian economic transition, and this happened in our first term and mitigation of the consequences of pandemics and devastating earthquakes, and in order to adapt Croatia to global challenges such as the 4th Industrial Revolution, digital and green transition, climate change and geopolitical disorders, Croatia will receive a roof or, you will adopt a roof development document for a 10-year period. The strategy will be a framework for the development of all local, regional and national strategies, which will ensure their coherence and complementarity. This will help all strategic acts contribute to a common clearly defined vision of Croatia's development. This strategy is important because it recognises the challenges it faces today because it provides a perspective for Croatia's development in the future, sets realistic and ambitious goals that will lead to a greater quality of life and business, respects Croatia's competitive advantages for a more developed economy, as it will make sure that no one stays on the sidelines contribute to the mitigation of the effects of the global epidemic and natural disasters. Finally, because the framework for budget planning and programming of EU funds is optimal. The process of production was inclusive and in the consultations on the Strategy everyone could participate in different phases from 2017 to today, when its production began. Ladies and gentlemen, over the past year, it has become clear that no country can foresee the challenges it will face in the future but it is easier to adapt the existing frameworks to unplanned circumstances than to create them in the midst of the crisis. In a competitive global environment, each country must independently find ways to increase its own competitiveness, taking into account its human, economic and technological potentials in order to turn the challenges into opportunities. It is precisely one of the main purposes of this National Development Strategy, and this will help us to cope more easily with unpredictable crises. The strategy means a systematic and strategic step towards a more successful and developed Croatia 2030 and is the result of a comprehensive approach to development that we have been seeking since the beginning of our first term. This is also reflected in the progress made in the balanced regional development and effective use of EU funds. The strategy contains a vision of Croatia in 2030 as a guideline of visions summarised while at the same time making a broad enough effort to unite what is most important to each of us and together as a society we wish for and work on better Croatia. We want Croatia which will be a competitive, innovative and secure country in 2030, recognizable identity and culture, countries of preserved resources, quality living conditions and equal opportunities for all. In order to achieve this vision, the strategy has 4 developments in the direction of a sustainable economy and society, strengthening crisis resilience, green and digital transition, balanced regional development. Building a sustainable economy and society will be achieved by investing in people through more efficient public administration and justice, which will contribute to economic growth and to increasing productivity in the public and private sectors. For the next 10 years, we will focus on strengthening our resilience to the crisis. This pandemic and the global crisis are more reason why as a state, we further strengthen the health system and social care system and this will contribute to raising the level of social services and social inclusion, combating poverty and creating a stimulating environment for children, young people and families. By moving to clean and accessible energy through the development of the circular economy and by strengthening self-sufficiency in food production, we will ensure the green and digital transition of Croatia and turn climate and environmental challenges into opportunities and they are the greatest global threat of this century. In addition, by investing in digital infrastructure and by introducing digital solutions as well as by promoting sustainable transport policy, we will contribute to building the digital future of Europe and modernising Croatia. Supporting thinking territorial strategies will enable balanced regional development and regional competitiveness through smart specialisation for a better standard of life and better exploitation of all Croatian landscapes. At the heart of the realization of this vision that I believe most of us share, investments in our people and their knowledge, skills and creative potential are key to Croatia's success. In the context of the 4 development of the direction, we have set 13 strategic objectives that are equally important and contribute to the achievement of this vision for the country's future development. The strategy contains 23 impact indicators to confirm that we are on the right track and that this vision is being achieved. Supporting the development of a competitive, technologically advanced and export-oriented economy based on knowledge, innovation and the application of advanced technologies, we will ensure a competitive and innovative economy that creates quality jobs. Our goal is until 2030. GDP per capita raises from 65% to 75% of the EU average and raises the share of goods and services from 52% to 70% of GDP. By investing in a system of education and education, we will enable Croatia to continue building as a country of educated and employed people in which our young people can achieve their future, start a family and live decently from their work. Our goal is to reach the OECD average on PISA tests, which in 2018 was 479 points on reading literacy, to increase child coverage in preschool education above 97% and to raise employment to 75%. In order to remove institutional weaknesses, by 2030 we will develop competent and reliable public administration, effective judiciary, quality management of state assets, and strengthen anti-corruption mechanisms. The aim is to speed up the work of the judiciary and shorten the time to resolve first-degree litigation and commercial cases from 374 days to 250 days. We will strengthen Croatia's global visibility for political affirmation and economic strengthening with the promotion of Croatian culture and history as well as the truth about the Homeland War. This will contribute to stability in Southeast and Central Europe and the Mediterranean. We will also cultivate the unity of Croatia's homeland and evicted people so that everyone who wishes to contribute to the overall development of the country. Our goal from 63rd place to 2030 is to reach at least 45th place on the global competitiveness index. People are the most important potential to overcome the challenges in a decade ahead of us, so in our vision it is essential to invest in people and to care for every man in the spirit of social solidarity and equality and to create opportunities for their development independently of material condition. Our goal is to reduce the number of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion from 23 to below 15% and extend the expected number of years of healthy life by 5 to 8 years. We will implement an encouraging policy of intelligence as a cornerstone of demographic revitalisation, a strategic issue of the Croatian future. We will work to create an attractive, social and economic environment for the stay and return of young people and families to Croatia. Our goal is to raise the fertility rate per woman from 1.47 to 1.8 children. Security is an important prerequisite for a stable development of state and society and the priority in the next period is to achieve a high level of internal security and to preserve our lifestyle. Our goal is to remain among the best in the EU when it comes to the crime rate. The crime rate is 2.7% and the EU average is 12.5. We will lead Croatia towards an ecological and energy transition that involves low-carbon development, environmental protection and climate change risk reduction through the implementation of the European Green Plan and the UN Programme for Sustainable Development 2030. Our goal is to raise the rate of recycling of municipal waste from 25% to 55% and increase the share of renewable energy sources from 28% to over 36%. It will work on self-sufficiency in food production and bio-economic development. The conditions will be established for the Croatian food sector, including agriculture, fisheries and aquaculture, to produce more quality food at competitive prices with sustainable management of natural resources and better management of risks than climate change. We aim to significantly increase the productivity of agricultural work from 6,100 to EUR 10,000 per year's work unit. Modernisation and investment in the transport sector, roads, railways and ports will ensure sustainable mobility and strengthen Croatia's regional and geo-transport potential. We aim to place ourselves among the 28 most successful countries by infrastructure in the global competitiveness index. The digital transition of society and economy will provide faster and transparent public administration services equally available in all parts of the country through the development of broadband infrastructure. Our goal is to reach the EU average in the future of economic and social digitisation, today Croatia is 20th in the EU according to the sedendex. For the development of assisted areas, islands and areas with developmental specificities, investment in balanced regional development, demographic recovery, as well as strengthening social justice and social trust will be crucial. Our goal is to reduce the difference in regional GDP per capita so that the ratio between the most developed and the most underdeveloped county falls from 3.1 to 2.5. We will strengthen regional competitiveness, and support economic expansion of knowledge, technology and innovation at the centre of regional policy. Our goal is to raise the regional competitiveness index from 32 to 38. To achieve all these objectives, cooperation with cities, municipalities and counties that are key to planning and implementing projects will be important, and the state will provide human and administrative capacity to implement the objectives outlined in the works. In the next period Croatia, as you know, in these 10 years. There are EUR 24.2 billion of European funds available with additional resources from the European Solidarity Fund for recovery or recovery from earthquake recovery. That's more than a one-year state budget. That's what we've been fighting for in the past 2020. With the completion of the National Development Strategy, of course you know that the government is also working on the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, which will focus around €6 billion of European grants without a national component on reforms and investments. The process of drawing up operational programmes for the implementation of the new multiannual financial framework is also under way, i.e. '21-'27. for economic, social and digital development, and these documents will be completed within the deadline of June. In the discussion of the strategy, we welcome the inclusion of all parliamentary representatives and we expect today to try to find a consensus on this document and on developmental directions and on all the activities ahead. I thank those of you who have already contributed, and I have been informed by the minister that the discussions on the parliamentary committees have passed very constructively with the support of this document. At 30. Croatian society and the economy have passed a transformation that needs to be accelerated in the next decade. In the first decade of Croatian statehood, we made significant efforts to defend, liberate and restore our country, build constitutional democratic order and market economy. In the second decade, we were focused on resolving the issue of economic transition to NATO and EU accession until the global crisis. In the third decade Croatia faced a multi-year recession followed by gradual recovery, EU accession, and a stronger use of the benefits of membership. For the past 4 years. We have resolved many residual issues of the Croatian economic transition, while maintaining macroeconomic balance, raising all economic indicators. But for the fourth decade, although it started with unprecedented crises, there should be a period of Croatian accelerated development, entry into Europe, entry into the Schengen area and ultimately joining the OECD's only relevant organisation to which we can join, and for today we have strong leverages. This is why it is crucial to start an accelerated economic and social recovery by modernising the economy and adapting to green and digital technologies. In addition to building a fairer and more solid society, with the principle of equality, with respect for human rights and the inclusion of national minorities, the development step is necessary in order to bring living and business conditions closer to the level that most developed European countries know. I believe that by accepting and implementing this National Development Strategy and by joint engagement of all social stakeholders, we will achieve these objectives for the welfare of future generations. I would now ask Minister Tramišak to say a few more words about the indicators in this strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29488	Please stop the time and just overwrite the pay phone, and we'll give the word to the minister. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29489	Thank you. Honorable MPs. I thank the Prime Minister for this opening statement. I will only briefly, teaching on what is already here and said that the National Development Strategy as a roof strategy document foresees clear measurable indicators that will achieve those objectives that are set inside. All these indicators that we have paid particular attention to and attention to are relevant at European and global level and give us an opportunity to compare not only with the results and achievements that we have ourselves as the Republic of Croatia but can also compare with other EU Member States, but also globally. It is important to note that the report on the implementation of this national development strategy will be submitted annually to you in the Croatian Parliament so that all of you together with us, and thus the general public will have opportunities to monitor where we have been and whether we are moving in the direction we have planned. What is more important to mention is that this national development strategy is the basis for the establishment of all public policies, for increasing efficiency, efficiency and transparency of tools at national and local level. The Prime Minister stressed, and it is also necessary to point out that even in the basic specifics of this strategy, the overall concern for the well-being of each individual, each of the inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the strategy is not only focused on economic issues but includes social, scientific issues, security issues, but also culture, science, education and justice as well as public administration and fiscal stability. The National Development Strategy provides for a new development model that unites the partner approach of the country, economy and society as a whole. And only by such an approach can we achieve a given developmental vision. Structural reforms have already begun with a clear formulation of public policies, clear commitments and responsibilities of the central authorities of the state administration, ministries, the government as a whole, we will achieve the goals that we are aiming at today. Finally, I would like to thank all the ministries that have produced this strategic document, but also all the predecessors of the Ministry of Regional Development as well as the entire professional public, more than 2,300 people who participated in the formulation of all these public policies. In particular, citizens, political parties, academic community, cities, counties, entrepreneurs as well as economic associations and other public bodies that participated in public consultation that preceded the adoption of this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29490	I thank the minister, and now we're going to move on to replicas, we have 38 for the Prime Minister and one replica for the minister. Well, here we go, first up, comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29491	The Honorable President of the Assembly, the Honorable Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues, I will say at first that this material you gave us is at the level of a high school essay. Here, counterpart Pavić said that we have additional acts that explain this, and I found this indicative list of strategic planning acts, but there is one problem that most of these acts refer to the 2027 period, '26, some of them until 2023, so we will obviously have one hole that we haven't covered. In this material that you've given us, there's not a single indicator that we can evaluate, that we can evaluate, anything exact. I'll ask two short questions. The first question is do you know that the fertility rate of 1.8 is also one major natural decline, which you have pointed out, and the second question is to comment on why the EU is mentioned in this 349-seat strategy and only 105-seat Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29492	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29493	As far as the esteemed representative Zekanovic is concerned, the questions of the fertility of demographic revitalisation are real ambitions. So I said that at the beginning of my opening speech, we would be happy to see that it is much more than 1.8 and this problem demographically we can say the demographic fall of Croatia has not been since the last few years, it has been going on for decades. I think it's one of the topics you know a lot about and we agree on in principle. I would like to, and probably you, too, that we can fix all this with one strategic framework act, unfortunately there are a lot of preconditions that must be synergy in order to gradually come to numbers that would be above 2. That would be very good for our country, our size. As for the number of words as many times as Croatia or the EU has been mentioned, perhaps this is really true, I must admit that you are the first to count it, what is important is this strategy relying on both global trends and European trends without it any national development strategy would not make sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29494	Thank you. Come on in, pal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29495	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, the fundamental issue of every policy development society is how to reach Denmark. I don't mean Denmark as a concrete state, but a country that is prosperous, which is inclusive, which is solidarity. That is why this development strategy does not respect the biggest objections in the Republic of Croatia, which are extra-active institutions, clientelism, chronic capitalism or ortho-capism and then what we have. We have one way that the strategy itself was done that way, in a way where the main objections of the Republic of Croatia are. So, it's done non-transparently, you don't know who the subcontractors are, you don't know who the strategy was preparing, who wrote it, and it's shamelessly expensive. And to help you in your answer to me, you can answer me as your president of the county organization replied, which would make you Sinisha all on the table.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29496	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29497	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Highash Doncic. So I also saw in these creative breaks requests that a lot of you were wondering about how much the strategy cost, who was working, who were the authors, which is known, which is unknown. I think Minister Tramišak, and MP Pavic, the former minister, has already explained it several times. Croatia has been working with the World Bank for many years, some of these contracts date back to the time of the government in which you were minister. The World Bank has been working on the bases, so 16 strategic documents that are based on individual sectors that have exactly cost about 32 million kunas financed from the operational programme for competitiveness and cohesion, 80%, 85% are funded by European funds, 15% is our national participation, including the 3-year process. You have a list of people who were working groups. The authorship of this document is Vladino, not some foreign associate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29498	Thank you. Comrade Hajdukovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29499	Dear Prime Minister, there is much more in your mouth of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem as a project of PR, a project primarily of this government and, frankly, in the strategy, I expected that we would be able to read much more about Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem are mentioned twice in 150 pages of this strategy and are once mentioned in the lists of undeveloped regions along the border with Banija and Zagora and many others. They mention a lot of assisted areas as demographic, economic and social devastated areas, and I'm afraid your policy has also led Slavonia to this status of the assisted area, that the whole of Slavonia is an assisted area and the new laws you're proposing like that of the seed will only contribute to further devastation of this very area whose mouth is full of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29500	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29501	Thank you, beautiful representative Hajduković, you will have the opportunity, I hope, President of the Croatian Parliament, to discuss very soon the state of the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, the government has responded thoroughly to your opposition initiative, I think the fact that in the first term of the funds available, we allocated 18.5 billion kuna and that we have agreed so far it seems to me 17.5 billion kuna, that we have held 11 tips for Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, you as a representative from IV. election units used to come but you were less than you could have been, if you'd been there and your associates, then you wouldn't have written about what we were doing for Slavonia. Slavonia is mentioned as other regions to which the Croatian government wants to help, both Dalmatia Zagora and Lici and G. Kotar and Banovina, as well as northern Croatia and other parts of the country to develop quite appropriately in the national document.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29502	Thank you. My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29503	Thank you, Mr. President. Every National Development Strategy, including this one, was about Croatia, Slovenia or any other country, should propose a particular model of development, should suggest a specific path. But in this strategy, there is no one. He's not clear, he's not visible. We got a file full of clichés, we got a file full of phrases. When I asked you a few months ago why we were late, you told me we were late for the earthquake, that we were late for the crown crisis. I've been looking for your answers to earthquake questions, I've been looking for an answer strategy to the coronary crisis, they're gone, they're only mentioned marginally. What we're supposed to do here is take lessons from this year when you've already delayed her passing and put them inside, but you haven't done that. And we got a document that, apart from the form, brings nothing to Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29504	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29505	Thank you very much, Agent Grbin. You, as well as several other colleagues and colleagues of your representatives here in the Assembly, are easily discrediting the years of work of a number of professional people who have worked on this document without any general phrases, without any argument giving any suggestion, you are talking about the way, I suggest that you read this document a little more thoroughly on your way of looking at the future and on the development of the country, to see how comprehensive it is, how strongly it is integrated into European objectives, in global goals that clearly position the country from a national point of view, with an analysis of the state and ways and the development and vision of development, and it certainly has in this document those elements that relate to the pandemic COVID 19 and which relate to devastating earthquakes. The fact that you may not have read the last version so this is how you perform is more your problem than ours.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29506	My colleague Vucilović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29507	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, in many places it is said in the strategy that we will work on the growth of exports of goods and services but remains unclear what this ratio is and whether it is based solely on tourism. We know that in 2020, regardless of the pandemic and the economic crisis, goods exports were at the level of that 2019. The share of the processing industry in GDP of Croatia is 12% while in developed countries is about 20% so I am interested, is it planning to invest further in the processing industry of the mainly food and processing industry, I ask that because I come from Slavonia and I think Slavonia has such potential because we see that space and in the structure and we say the minister, the structural reforms have started, so there is space, is something planned in the process? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29508	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29509	Thank you very much, MP Vucilović. As far as agriculture is concerned, as regards the processing industry, of course we will invest in it, that is also the whole purpose of activities dedicated to the East of Slavonia, 5 Slavonian counties, but also to others related to the new regional support map that we have opposed to that poor, unfair, discriminatory, changed as the SDP Government adopted in 2012. As far as exports are concerned, so we are the Government leading a truly intense dialogue with Croatian exporters, Croatian exporters are the backbone of the Croatian economy, the most creative, most pro-pulsant, those who find niche on the global and European market to sell their products and services, and we will continue to support their work, try to open up roads for them to further contribute to exports and to the growth of Croatian economies.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29510	Comrade Bartulica, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29511	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, we know that often the reality of life bounces away from the government's declared plans, and even the EU bodies have this recent vaccine delivery case, we see that what was planned before, doesn't come true and then new circumstances arise, sometimes difficult. We also have a case in agriculture where incentives are increasing and agricultural production is falling, so again something that reflects the situation. Do you think my question concerns the structure of the public administration and how it works, do you think it meets the real needs of the Croatian people today in this Circumstances? [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29512	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29513	Strengthening the institutions of the state, and thus making public administration more efficient, we are constantly setting goals, in the last 30 years. We've built a new state administration under new circumstances and new principles. I agree with you that it needs to be continuously improved, made more quality reception filters, education, special programs for people working in the state administration, those who decide to do so in relation to eventually their education compared to private sector careers de facto do one thing. This is how time moves away and how the earth develops I am convinced that 2030 is going to happen. to be even more visible, choosing a job in which they contribute to social responsibility and what is most important, and that is why it is called service, which is to serve citizens in their interest without corruption, quickly, effectively to facilitate everything they have to do with any the form of administration. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29514	Comrade Maric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29515	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, I have a question about health tourism. In 2015, the U.S. A rough assessment was that we had the potential to come annually from the medical and health tourism of EUR 1 billion. In 2017, we had only EUR 300 million. What are the data just before the pandemic, and what are the projections by 2030? And the same question about the use of EU funds for the development of health tourism, how are we now and what are the projections by 2030, at least some frameworks to give us? In fact, only 5 places in the document have the term "health tourism" or "health industry" to encourage development, but there is no such specific data. I asked the question on the board, but here's the answer in principle, so please be as specific as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29516	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29517	Okay. Thank you very much, esteemed representative Maric. As far as health care is concerned, I think it's generally very well covered in strategy. As far as health tourism is concerned, it is one form of work of tourism activities that I think has even greater potential than the one you have agreed on from the beginning. So, Croatia, thanks to its, we can say, climate opportunities, thanks to the Mediterranean character of the country can be very attractive for different forms of health tourism. Some of these are already working. Investments in this sector whether they come from the private sector or are supported by the use of state or national resources are, in my opinion, an opportunity to position ourselves even better. As far as specific numbers are concerned, I will ask the Minister of Tourism and the Minister of Health to give you specific information. They are not listed here, it should be part of the sectoral strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29518	Comrade Nikolic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29519	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, the content of the strategy, we have already heard that it does not offer a clear picture which is the key priorities of Croatia and where we really see Croatia in the next 10 years. The only thing you can see, which actually falls into the eyes is the amount of 32 million kunas spent in the process of making the document. A colleague, Hajdas Doncic, asked about the participants of the strategy, but I would only supplement that question and ask you what role Mrs. Doncic had in the process of making it. Dalych? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29520	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29521	Thank you very much. We'll answer your question one more time. So 32 million kuna didn't cost this document. Otherwise in Font 12 for those who see weaker, I don't know how Font 14, those who read often can immediately be recognized, 32 million kunas Agreement with the World Bank, process of 3.g., 16 strategic bases, documents that you can consult yourself on the Ministry's website and on the National Development Strategy website, so see how and how people are consulted. Whether the former Deputy Prime Minister and Economy Minister was involved in the strategy, as far as I know, was hired by the World Bank. She has more than all the qualifications needed to be an expert, an economist, so someone who was and a consultant contributes to a document like this, and I don't see any problem with that. In fact, I think it's good and useful for the document.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29522	Here's a fellow Witness.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29523	Dear Prime Minister, there are a lot of good wishes in this national strategy, but few concrete solutions. I say this first because it cost more than 30 million kunas, so I would expect something concrete to be found on a page, since each page cost more than 200,000 kuna. You also mentioned here that you expect to grow productivity in the public and private sectors in the future. The HDZ government has not increased productivity in the state sector, neither in the public sector, nor in state-owned companies, so I find it strange that you could increase productivity in the private sector. Please don't help the private sector, I don't know if they'd survive it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29524	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29525	It seems to me to me that counsel Tale that either you were in some deep winter dream or a dream that lasted about exactly a year and somewhere you missed underneath, between chairs fell, what all our government had done for the private sector only in the last few days. Thanks to our very government's involvement in the private sector, our fellow citizens and employers and workers have overcome this crisis. More than 8 billion kuna, 8 billion kuna, which is more than this 32 million kuna in agreement with the World Bank paid 85% of European funds, went to private sector workers' salaries. When you compare the number of employees we're practically on the same number from a year ago in an unprecedented crisis. It's your country's strength, it's your impulsive administration to tell Mr. Doncic or agile management at the right moment that has given a hand to the private sector like no one has ever done before. You wake up. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29526	Comrade Bedekovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29527	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, you, in your opening statement at the beginning, pointed out that I also have the need to repeat that this developmental first comprehensive strategic document was created after obtaining independence from the Republic of Croatia at the threshold of the 4th decade of Croatian independence and that people or Croatian citizens or investment in Croatian citizens and their quality of life in Croatia as we wish by 2030 were placed at the centre of the strategy. We know that Croatia has more than EUR 24 billion from the EU Funds at its disposal, of course with additional funds for earthquake-affected areas. Please answer me what this strategic document means specifically to withdraw funds from EU funds to ensure quality life for Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29528	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29529	Thank you, beautiful representative Bedeković, it is true that this is a roof strategic document, in fact, in the past 3 decades at least, as far as I know, there have been several similar documents, but we have not yet had such a comprehensive character. It's his main quality. The basis and basic direction we have set with both the vision and the objectives clearly stated here should be an indication of the activities through individual sectoral strategies, but also through the programmes and reforms that will be made through the EU instrument Next generation through the National Recovery and Resistance Programme or the Partnership Agreement, and then all operational programmes or territorial ones that will enable us to use more than EUR 12.5 billion from the multiannual financial framework. The word complementarity is key to understanding the role of this document in this respect.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29530	My colleague Vlasic Iljkić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29531	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, the strategy says that the programme and prevention of all forms of violence will be strengthened with the provision of quality cross-sectoral cooperation, education of all relative and relevant stakeholders. So far, activities in certain strategies have not yielded results, so we also have problems with insufficient shelters for victims of domestic violence, and a counselling center for victims, not to mention good inter-resorial cooperation. Among the members of the county teams so far, no state attorney's office has been involved, which certainly lacks a good answer to all the problems of domestic violence. Is it planned to include the state's attorney's office in the work of teams and what is your position on the establishment of family courts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29532	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29533	Thank you, well-respected MPs, I will remind you that the SDP government, which is nominally seeking to prevent violence, has missed a full mandate, a full mandate without any too high explanation, to ratify the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Domestic Violence and Violence against Women. We had this debate recently here in the Croatian Parliament when it was International Day against Violence Against Women. Unlike you, and despite the ideological challenges that have arisen, despite the fact that some of the representatives here, around this part of me, feared some zombies who would walk in Croatia, there are no zombies. We have ratified, we have improved inter-resorship co-operation, our mandate is to finance safe houses throughout Croatian counties and improve the coordination of all actors, and if it is necessary to include the state's attorney's office more effectively, we will be sure there will be The ones who asked for zombies to help, and so can you. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29534	Comrade Sanader, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29535	Thank you, Mr. President. The Honorable Prime Minister, here is after the reform of the fire department, the adoption of the Fire Department Act, the return of the fire department after 100 years that firefighters managed their system in the last reform we were expensive, the strategy we were together with kindergartens and competed for the construction of fire departments. Here, I thank these Croatian firefighters, both you and the minister and everyone who helped us get their rightful place in this strategy, but now it would be very important for us to see and therefore I appeal to you, to the minister and to everyone that you have the same understanding in the distribution of funds. You have seen these days which means Croatian firefighters and this earthquake as well as all the activities and life problems and now that we have got our place in the strategy that you also make sure that the firefighters get the money in the distribution so that we can raise this system even stronger. After 200 vehicles that are government She has now secured the need and the building of homes. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29536	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29537	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the exact improvement of the fire system is integrated into the national development strategy. In our first term, we passed a new law. As you know, this law has allowed the Croatian Fire Department to be raised to the level of the central state office, whether it is public or voluntary troops, a huge contribution to both the civil protection system and the home security system and support to our citizens in the various situations of natural disasters, not only earthquakes or fires, and this has been proven on several occasions. We will use, of course, the basic background of this document this direction and when it comes to the distribution of financial resources and strengthening the position of fire in Croatian society.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29538	Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29539	Thank you very much. You mention biodiversity to the prime minister in the strategy, which I agree with, but at the same time you are sending the Act on the ban on the use of indigenous seeds on the market. Is that not contradictory for you, is that embarrassing at the moment when we need to encourage the domestic OPGs, the native seed automatically? You also mention sustainable development, I agree. However, the fact is that there is still the Minister of Competent Coric, the open sewerage from Sinj enters my Cetina and absolutely nothing is done but during this agglomeration and this competition is always cancelled and public procurement while other cities are forgiven or supported, in Cetina it affects you, see what, the whole of Dalmatia is drinking this, Prime Minister. In the river clear Cetina. Will you be able to resolve these 150 million kunas through the Secretary-General to threaten the environment so that Cetina does not enter the feces?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29540	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29541	Thank you very much. I am pleased that you support the strategy, its content, its direction and biodiversity, as regards sustainable development, and as far as specific topics relating to seeds are concerned, we will lead the debate, the Minister of Agriculture is open to all suggestions about this topic and as far as the purity of Cetina is concerned, here I suggest that Minister Čorić sees with the competent services to avoid such pollution situations and you in the traditional handling manners of any paper, plane or bottle, you can also hand him that bottle of polluted water, he will surely take it with you and think of you as he looks at it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29542	Comrade Tomasevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29543	Thank you. I have already said something about the problematic process of making a strategy and its form, but as far as content is concerned, with some objectives they can agree on, such as strengthening self-sufficiency in food, medicines and energy production. Somewhere I think the strategy should have been more ambitious, such as reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 because I prefer the position of the European Parliament than at least 60%...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29544	Comrade Tomasevic, I'm sorry. Comrade Bulj, please. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29545	I say somewhere I think the strategy should have been more ambitious when it comes to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, as the European Parliament has asked for 60% by 2030 if we want to be climatically neutral by 2050. On the other hand, in some segments, I think they're problematic, for example, a strategy when you talk about state-owned enterprises and you say that there's a parallel of so many state-owned companies in similar European countries but that there's less productivity in Croatia and then as a solution you name privatisation and you don't even make a distinction between strategic state-owned companies in some sectors because you say that there can be no other way to make public companies more productive, And then we see it when we see it in Požega Zagorje how the managers of public enterprises... [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Why is that? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29546	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29547	I'm listening carefully, I didn't understand the question and I'm glad you support the strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29548	Comrade Petrov, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29549	Dear Prime Minister, I'd like a simple answer. Could Croatian experts have written a better quality of this national strategy than this national strategy you represent today, which the World Bank has written for you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29550	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29551	I'm sure the ophthalmologists can help you understand the font 12 of font 14. It is a simple task, it is possible to do both domestic and foreign ophthalmologists, mostly not a big problem, just to remove the disinformation you are talking about or maybe print a bigger font for your employees in the club, print the font 12 to me, and I don't see any problem, as much as there are the same number of pages you're talking about. So there's a problem. As for the questions of experts, working with the World Bank does not mean that Croatian experts were not involved in the involvement of experts through the World Bank as well. It seems to me that you either didn't follow this process or you weren't interested enough to check, to ask, to see either the current minister, or the former minister who worked everything. The document is quality and good but it is not this document These are the bases. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] This is a government document and the government brought it before the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29552	Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29553	President-in-Office of the Parliament, the Prime Minister has been injured by the Rules of Procedure. 238, disdaining parliamentary representatives. Yes, we can see that Mr Plenkovic is particularly printed and particularly adapted to the situation in which we can also notice that Mr Plenkovic has one picture of Croatia that does not correspond to reality but that is his problem. I wish you wouldn't disrespect the Croatian experts you're doing right now and I want you to point out All the bills you paid 32 million [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] You're not Croatian experts but the World Bank. [[Break president: colleague Petrov, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29554	My colleague Petrov, therefore, is aware that this was not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but you have replicated it by giving you a warning. Comrade Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29555	Good afternoon. I will not highlight the monstrosity of some parts of this strategy, such as the attitude towards pensioners where unworthy ageing and the inadequacy of pensions are being resolved by allowing for a longer rest in the world of the labour market. Working to death will certainly not improve their status and we will not improve the productivity with which they can absolutely agree that one of the most important issues in this strategy is to which it does not answer. But instead of giving the World Bank that task, we gave it to domestic institutions and ordered a previous analysis of previous measures and policies, we might get answers to some of the negative trends that we will only repeat in this strategy, such as the decline in industrial production by 2% each year, a huge deficit in trade with the EU of 60 billion kuna, which is growing here around 6% each year. Why only 15% of our entrepreneurs are exporting, but then we would be questioning the only bases that we have They allow for an increase in the productivity of the state in interventionism. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29556	Thank you very much, I'm asking you to stick to all the time. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29557	Thank you, well-respected MPs Peović, and not from these monster comments, it is very difficult to understand the way in which you have in understanding the content of the document that is before you, constantly refer to 32 million whether it comes from you or from other representatives, I will continuously repeat it, this document that is in front of you in font 12, was made by the Croatian Government, the competent resolutions, the means that went through cooperation with the World Bank were used for the bases of 16 sectoral strategic documents publicly available on NRS 2020.–30. i.e. the Ministry of Regional Development and EU Funds, and I and these other colleagues who constantly refer to it to them as reading these documents, so they see the quality of their content and their contribution to this document and public debate. Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29558	Here is the violation of the Rules of Procedure of colleague Peović.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29559	And even I would react to the article, meaning the violation of Rules of Procedure 238 insults the MP, but I have to respond to false statements. So I did not refer at all to the price of making this strategy but to the content of this strategy, so you did not stick to the topic, and it was how to increase productivity if we repeat the same measures as in previous strategies and previous documents?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29560	My colleague Peović, you deliberately thoughtfully, deliberately went to hurt the Rules of Procedure by raising a request for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I give you a warning. It was no violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29561	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, the document states, if I am not mistaken, 78 strategic acts supporting this strategy and still under regular number 79, all strategic acts that have been adopted at the level of units of local and regional self-government. So, almost anything strategic is said to be written in the Republic of Croatia and what has not yet expired. All but one, which is the Strategy of Education, Science and Technology, is the same strategy that I remind you, brought by this assembly and which is still with pride and enthusiasm on the government's web pages under the romantic name "New colors of knowledge", the same strategy which, especially in the chapter of early and preschool, primary and secondary education and education, lists several key essential strategic objectives of our education system. None of this is included in this strategy. I'm asking you to explain and [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Please tell us why you turned your back. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] The strategy... [[Intruder: Thank you very much, dear colleague Bakic]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29562	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29563	Thank you very much. As for the strategy to which you refer and which has been adopted, it seems to me before, Vesna how much, 7 or 8 years. In HS, it exists, it's still worth, it's being spent. What we had as a big problem when we went into an analysis of this really voluntous document that a lot of people worked on at some other time in the term of another government, but I respect it all, was it how to quantify the costs of these goals? I failed to see how much implementation of all the objectives set out in that strategy would cost. I've asked for it countless times in the past term of that government, and unfortunately I haven't been able to figure out how much all these ambitions that were put there would cost. What is good in this document, you have seen that educated and employed people are placed on the strategic objective of 2. So very high, on the high priority list. and in a very structured way. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29564	Here you go, fellow Pavić. Oh, I'm sorry, fellow Dark-Taritash, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29565	All right. Thank you, well-respected President-in-Office, Your Honor, Prime Minister. So it's absolutely a strategy which is a roof document from which individual sector strategies will come out and there's nothing to add or subtract there. The question that we all have to answer is whether we are reading from this strategy what Croatia will be in 2030, and I am thinking first and foremost about the economy. What are we going to develop? We want to be clean, environmentally acceptable, which industries or economic branches do we want to develop? In the context of that, I have a very specific question. You have one part that says that the decision is to support existing intensive industries and says, for example, the textile industry, the shoe industry and the leather industry. On the basis of which data or because it has been recognised as the industry which will continue to receive State support, is that the number of employees Or something else? [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29566	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29567	Thank you very much, Mr. Dark-Taritash. I will repeat once again what the vision of this strategy is. It is for Croatia to be a competitive, innovative and secure country of recognizable identity and culture, a country of preserved resources, quality living conditions and equal opportunities for all. It's a sentence that contains the direction we want to go. Your question about the intensive industry, as you call it, so shoes, textiles and skin, I believe that every time around October when we make decisions about minimum wage, and we in our mandate increased it more than 3 governments together before us, you are referred to wages precisely in this sector. These are exactly the branches where the salaries are at least and precisely why further support is given to these employees, these industries expressive verbis listed in this document.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29568	Thank you. Now it's time for your fellow Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29569	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office. Prime Minister, you just said the vision the strategy carries. There were some objections that the strategy was unambitious, and I would say that it was both ambitious and realistic, it would point to several examples, just indicators. The employment rate when you took over the government's first term was about 61%, you committed yourself to 68% by the end of the term, I checked the data this morning, third quarter of 2020. 67.8%. You made it and you invested 8 billion kuna in it, 75% is real by 2030. We've never had more than 1% of GDP in R & D, you've achieved by European means 1%. New innovations, new technologies 3%. We know that 25% of cohesion will go to research and development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29570	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29571	Thank you very much. Representative Pavic, as government minister in the past term, is in charge of exactly this portfolio you have also made a quality contribution and it is good that you have presented these indicators that are very concrete in relation to the comparative achievements before our government's mandate. I agree with you that this strategy is both ambitious and realistic, 10 years old. It may work a lot from today's perspective, but if you turn back, all this doesn't work that long, it's only two and a half mandates of the Government and the Croatian Parliaments, and therefore it should start working on sectoral strategies, preparing projects well and investing funds precisely in those aspects that this strategy has defined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29572	Comrade Ahmetovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29573	Dear Prime Minister, the Strategy sets out the priorities of implementation in the field of energy policy and this increases energy self-sufficiency and efficiency and transition to clean energy. As a state, we do not set an example for our strategic companies, JANAF, INA, LNG Croatia because they all use fossil fuels in their business. JANAF stores oil and builds infrastructure to transport our Croatian oil to Hungary, INA of course has all its business defined in the function of national development, but Hungary, LNG Croatia builds out of Croatian pockets a gas supply infrastructure for other countries, and Hungary. Nowhere in the Strategy is the transition to energy self-sufficiency, but I only see a strategy for energy imports and energy dependence. Please define energy self-sufficiency or tell me on which page it is processed in this Strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29574	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29575	Thank you very much, President Ahmetovic. As one of the loudest advocates of the construction of LNG terminals in Omislj, Krk, you certainly know a lot about energy topics, you know for sure how much Croatia lost by building a LNG terminal on Krk in a strategic way in the energy map of Europe which in this way diversified the routes of gas supply in this particular case, ingested natural gas, contrary to all your thesis, announcements that should negatively affect the environment, there will be no negative environmental impact, especially in the sea. The same thing is with the lease capacity, the same thing is with the price of gas that will in no way be greater thanks to this project. And as for the energy strategy that we already have, which we created in the last term, it is currently targeting renewable sources. Energy as it is in the whole world. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29576	Comrade Grman Kizavitt, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29577	I thank the president of HS. Mr. Plenkovic. The development strategy, apart from being rudely expensive, comes with a great delay. For example. Slovenia has brought its strategy back in 2017, but what is worst is the fact that the objectives set there are that in 2030 we want to reach an EU average from 2019. When did you read this document, how could you accept it and does this mean that we will be at the bottom of Europe in 10 years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29578	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29579	I will once again honorably represent Grman again. So 32 million kuna has cost the preparation of strategic bases for this document, which was made in agreement with the World Bank under an agreement that has existed since the time of the SDP government. Get a little information on this, and then you'll be able to be a little more specific about these qualifications of rude, expensive, and more specific. Secondly, the fact that another country in another year adopts its development strategy in no way connects any other country, I don't even know those comparative arches with anyone, including Slovenia. And the document is not late, it is now at the beginning of 2020 in the Assembly to be adopted by the Parliament and to give us direction for the next 10 years. I remind you, we are the youngest member of the EU who, thanks to the engagement of our government, received comparatively, proportionately the most funds for cohesion and for and for the next generations per capita, others, because we are shorter in the Union and therefore our goal is realistic and ambitious at the same time. And we won't be the last. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29580	The next replica is the respected representative of Nevenko Barbaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29581	Dear Croatian Prime Minister, I welcome the unequivocal view of the need for our survival in BiH, development and progress as well as in the chapter on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. By reading this document, we cannot and cannot withdraw the parallel, and we need economic development, technological transition, digitalisation, conservation of environmental resources, we need a better health system, education better and preservation of Croatian language, protection of cultural heritage, construction of cultural institutions, and we have an obligation to protect the dignity of the Homeland War, dignity of the victims of war. Appreciateing what you and this government are doing for the Croats in BiH, the question is whether... documents from this Strategy... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] goals and enable us to get faster and stronger wind in the back, faster to achieve our goal, and that is survival in BiH? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29582	The answer of the Honorable Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29583	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Commissioner Barbaric. It is true that this document, of course, includes Croats living outside Croatia, whether it is in BiH, whether in our neighbouring countries, where there is a Croatian national minority or globally where our emigrants are, and therefore, in the opening speech, I have stressed the link between Croatia's country's eviction as the continuity of our policy from President Tudjman since the beginning of our independence since 1990, and it will be. As for BiH and its support and the country, as well as the Croats as an equal constituent people, they are clear, unequivocal, firm, especially in areas related to support in health care, support in education, support in culture, but also in many other projects, from environment to economy, we will continue to raise funds for the Croats in BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29584	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Silvan Hrelje. Comrade Barbaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29585	Your Honor, I will be very modest in my wishes in relation to this National Development Strategy and its strategic objectives. I would be happy for my children and for my grandchildren that the strategic objectives of this development strategy are realized with 50%, although I know I can't set goals low, but it's certainly dangerous and too high a target setting. I just want to ask you a strategic objective of 5. A healthy active and quality life that you mean under dignity of ageing or social solidarity and responsibility and in the strategic objective of 6. Demographic revitalisation increases the fertility rate from 1.47 to 1.8 children, how does this happen with a large number of young unemployed or employees with a job contract or student service how will it plan their family? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29586	Thank you. The answer of the Honorable Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29587	Thank you, well-respected representative of Hrelja, I see that you have put ambitions in real frameworks of 50% to be satisfied it has certainly contributed to your experience of years in the terms of the Croatian Parliament and in fact your intervention warns us to be faster and more agile, more effective than it might be in some way of government and administration. As far as demographic revitalisation is concerned, I was already speaking to another representative at the very beginning of these replicas, and here we have a council for demographic revitalisation now and a new central state office and resolute measures, a series of concrete inter-resorial contributions that should increase the conditions for increasing the number of children in Croatian families, which means higher wages. In our mandate of growth and wages and minimum and average we will do everything to make it so in the future, and the same thing with the growth of pensions and that is what we want to be a sign of equality for the word dignity although it is difficult And I understand it's hard and it's not good enough. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29588	The next replica is the respected representative of Josip Begonja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29589	Thank you. The Honorable Prime Minister is indisputable that one of these national documents, the strategic document of development of the Republic of Croatia that we are bringing for the first time, has great importance and guidance for the next 10 years in which we should go. It certainly helps the Government of the Republic of Croatia to prepare operational programmes for this ongoing new period, but I am interested in what would mean that one such document of example we had in 2013 or 2014 when we talk about operational programmes that are somehow behind us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29590	The answer of the Honorable Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29591	Well, the idea of a respected representative of Begonja's kind of document is just to give a comprehensive developmental basis. The fact that the use of funds from the seven-year cycle of European budgets is, of course, an important lever that gives us additional power to do what we do at the level of the state budget, at the level of other international sources of funding, at the level of private sector investment, that it is useful and good. That is why it is essentially a coincidence of the adoption of these documents, and in these 6 months we will also adopt a national development strategy and a national recovery plan and a sustainability and partnership agreement that will allow new operational programmes, I think it will also make a very clear course for local units of regional self-government and regional self-government to contribute to the rapid economic and social development and even development of Croatia in all its regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29592	The next replica is the respected representative of Branka Jurčev Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29593	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, as you have said, this national strategy is also a framework for programming and more efficient use of European funds. Tourism is our strategic activity, and it is a significant part of our GDP, and I am therefore pleased to see that by 2030 more intensive use and resources and investment in the protection of the sea is planned to mean from it and from building a public drain system to developing innovative, sustainable and sustainable tourism until it plans to invest in agricultural capacities so that our product is located on our table, development and different forms of selective tourism, health, sports, cultural, religious, etc. On this occasion, I would like to appeal to you that, when programming, you are planning to separate the specific resources for the protection systems of the sea, because we know that pollution in only one part could have inconceivable consequences for our economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29594	Thank you. The Honorable Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29595	Thank you very much, very much, Mr. Juričev Martinchev, for this suggestion. On the occasion of the planning of operational programmes, in particular with regard to the protection of the sea, in terms of tourism or health tourism or other forms that you have listed, I cannot agree with you anymore, given how much tourism contributes to the overall GDP. I would remind you that by this pandemic year in the term of our last government we had a record 2017, 2018, 2019, we appeared to be talking for the first time in the season 2018 in a term of sustainable tourism. You remember what it was like, and in your Guides, it wasn't too crowded. I think that this trail also contains these documents and is a vision and tourism, as well as environmental protection in general, and especially the sea that may be our greatest comparative treasure in terms of the purity of the Adriatic. Therefore, we want to protect him further. As the council will do on Friday. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29596	Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29597	Thank you, Mr. President. The Honorable Prime Minister, the SDP president, and part of the SDP advocates are troubled by the price of making this strategy. Mr. Sinisha Hajdash Doncic says it's shamelessly expensive. So I would remind him, as well as the Croatian public, that he signed with consultants a study of the monetization of Croatian highways for which he paid 51 million kuna, which he and the government gave up, but.../incomprehensible/... said Siniša Hajdaš Doncic threw 51 million kuna into nothing. I am not saying that the cost of developing a strategy is not important, it is important, but the crucial quality of the strategy can be demonstrated through the achievement of the objectives set by it. In this case, 13 strategic goals have been set that I am sure will be raised to a higher level on the one hand, and on the other hand we as parliamentary representatives through an annual government report that we will deliver and through.../incomprehensible/... all indicators can determine how high it is [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you. [[Intruder: Here's the answer.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29598	Thank you, well-respected representative Bačić, and it is good to remind you of the costs of the strategy that was made and paid 91, you said, a million kunas in only one sector, which is the transport sector and paid. So she's thrown away. Here, we believe that when HS adopts this strategy, which is about 3 times less expensive than the sectoral strategy that has been thrown, and it has been done by Minister Hajdas Doncic, there will be less drama than 85% of the funding in agreement with the European Bank, and from the EU budget, the document that served for 16 sectoral bases published on the web pages, so that this attempt to confabulate and the weight of each of these pages is worth nothing. The basis that the strategy is not, and 91 million kunas should be interpreted by colleagues from the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29599	Thank you. Comrade Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29600	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So far we have had strategic, sectoral strategy-level documents, we have operational plans as the basis for withdrawing funds, etc., now we move in a different way, roof strategy, this one that we are going to discuss today, and then below that everyone will have the opportunity to bring their strategies to the level of municipalities, cities, counties, etc., and that should be much better than what we've had so far, I believe that because we have strategies that haven't been discussed either in the Assembly or in those operational programmes, I think the Assembly representatives have the opportunity to say what they want about each area. And as far as rude costing is concerned, here's what my colleague Bačić mentioned, and I'll add a little more precisely, so agreed in 2012, 50 million kuna counselling i.e. Advisers for the monetization of highways, for our political... On the other hand. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of which, 8 million paid and in government dropped in 30 seconds from the project that was being talked about for 4 years. Who's to blame for that 8 million kuna? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] What did they pay for it? [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] We haven't seen the fund or the website or Anything else. [[Intruder: Thank you, fellow Boric.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29601	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29602	Thank you very much, as regards the role of the Strategy in the context of operational programmes, it will certainly be beneficial and useful, as far as these costs are concerned, it is good for you to mention these 50 and these 91 and thrown strategies, unrealised, yet this strategy, national, i.e. Her, her professional bases, three times cheaper than just one sectoral strategy at the time of Mr. Doncic who left the assembly a little earlier, but he'll probably be told by someone that he was three times more expensive for a document that wasn't used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29603	Comrade Murganic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29604	... Dear President, you said it would be good to bring this strategy into the HS by consensus, certainly it deserves it, however, the opposition objectes that it is a set of good wishes in which it is not seen how and how to achieve these objectives because they have overlooked page 144 where there are a number of sublegal and other acts which support the implementation of the strategic framework of this Strategy. [[Specially enabled.]] My question is whether the resolutions have already come up with these acts in which here, a reasonable deadline will be that it does not happen that part of the strategic planning is not done, and here, as I happen to know by chance that the strategy of demographic revitalisation, demographic revitalization is over or at least in the final phase? So it gives hope that these acts are also in the works.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29605	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29606	... Thank you very much, Minister, i.e. Representative Murganic, for this intervention. [[Specially enabled.]] Exactly, the framework for implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the National Development Strategy is an integral part of this document, it is in Appendix 2. He not only reminds us that we will regularly report to HS on the dynamics of implementation, he also talks about the involvement of all actors in the management of this process, so from social partners to other interested parties, including parliamentary representatives who are involved in the National Management Board of the National Development Strategy, there is also a representative of the position, there is also a representative of the opposition, they have the right to suggest and all that they consider to be good. I hope that the document will be adopted by consensus, if there are concrete ideas that MPs will propose as amendments to this document, we will look very closely at them, and sectoral strategies, thanks to you, especially about demographic revitalisation Some are already working. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29607	Comrade Stromar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29608	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. In your speech, you mentioned that the deadlines in the judiciary would be reduced considerably from the beginning until the end of the sentence itself. I think it's extremely important and we need to regain trust in the judiciary. In fact, when the trust in the judiciary comes back, trust goes back to all the other institutions in this country, so here I hope that we will vote this National Strategy, but then we will really work on it and, with that, we will restore trust in the judiciary again, and restore trust in all other institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29609	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29610	Thank you very much. It is true, I was speaking at first about an effective and effective judiciary, in particular ambitions to shorten the duration of the proceedings, it does not necessarily have to be criminal proceedings, it can also be litigious proceedings and trade, in any case what, in front of commercial courts, is important to raise confidence, to raise efficiency, independence, impartiality, that anyone who wishes to exercise his rights legally through a reasonable period of time. We, in the years behind us, have significantly, but really, significantly reduced the cases that have indeed had several years of duration and these backlogs are no longer what they were, for example, 10 years ago at the time of the accession negotiations on EU membership, but there is still plenty of room for more effective justice and for raising confidence in our system, including the fight against corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29611	Comrade Peric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29612	Thank you, Honorable President HS, the Honorable Prime Minister. The strategy itself makes very clear the development guidelines, as well as the strategic objectives. What has particularly impressed me, so these are indicators of the success that are mentioned and precisely them, which has taught us both the EU and the use of EU funds where we see clearly what and where we are seeking and what we want to achieve. So when it comes to economy and agriculture, then you can see what you want to achieve in these segments, and then you can't stand these qualifications of some colleagues who say it didn't specify what it was to be achieved. After all, we will all be able to control and indicate it on an annual basis.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29613	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29614	Thank you, well-respected representative Peric. I am pleased that you are satisfied with the content of this document, especially with the indicators, refer to the absorption of European funds. I'll mention that so far we're from a financial perspective that can still be spent in '21, '22. and '23. In total, we agreed on the value of the projects of 113.07%, so we've concurred, that's the usual practice that's done, EUR 12.13 billion has been paid for now, EUR 5 billion, that's EUR 38 billion, and 46% of the allocations, and that's even $4.39 billion. Why am I saying that? I'm saying we've been in the last 2-3 years. Important progress in the efficiency and dynamics of absorption, and this Minister Tramišak is tasked with our co-workers to be more More effective. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29615	Now we're going to go to our colleagues and colleagues who were outside our great hall. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29616	Thank you. Your Honored Prime Minister, this strategy has 153 pages and it has devoted half of the page to the fight against corruption, but I am not surprised by the statements you gave yesterday where you call a political bribery a harsh political mistake, obviously not realizing what it's really about. And there's no label on your forehead that you're a corrupt man, either, but you could freely stand the label if you're a supporter or maintainer of corruption or a rehabilitator of corruption. We finally have to get out of such a corrupt way of ruling and managing, we have to turn to the market economy, we have to cut the charges, it's MOST today asking for the abolition of membership fee to the HGK. When will you finally be counter corruption? [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29617	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29618	Thank you very much, Mr. Grmoy. It seems to me that neither you nor any of the others who spoke in so-called this morning. The free speeches, they're not decrypting the messages I sent yesterday, so you better listen to the statements, and then you'll understand what it's about. As far as your thesis on labels is concerned. You see, I had a chance in my political career to talk to you, so the representatives of the Most when we agreed on the coalition, then there wasn't this gentleman from Oroslavje who accidentally shoots only HDZ's representative, talks to the rest of them, but not with this conversation so that he states. And what I have left of you and your party president is so-called. The thesis of being given a vertical. Do you remember the vertical formulation? E verticals are important, that's what's so-called. principled and principled MOST full of integrity which he would still like its vertical in a sector, and then it will solve [[Intruder: Thank you]] As far as he's concerned. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] That's a little bit of apropo labels you're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29619	Here's a violation of the Rules of Procedure, my colleague, Grumo.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29620	Dear Prime Minister, thank you for commending us and actually admitting how experienced we were and who we were dealing with. We want the vertical so that these bandits of yours, merchants and others don't rob.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29621	Comrade Grmoy, please choose words because they are inappropriate, it's not the speech we should use in HS, so there's no more judgments, but only one case we'll see how it ends, and then we'll see who's a bandit, a criminal, etc., so please choose words, this is HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29622	Mr. President, there's little of this one charge of labeling robbery in one party. That won't work.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29623	Thank you, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29624	It's a gentleman from the verticals. Let him deal with his labels... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29625	Prime Minister, please, I've warned a representative and that's enough. Let's move on, colleague, here's your colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29626	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Injury Art. 238, I don't know which times they're trying to insult us in their own way by colleagues from the Most, and this about robbery, about verticals, etc. These are people who had an affair with Grizzly if we remember where they could order the indictment, the show, they had their ways of acting, meetings with ministers, tariffs, etc. And they call us robbers, criminals, and say that we are all such, and that they are pure men who have never sinned at all. That's why it's a reminder to Thunderbolt. [[Intruder: Thank you, dear colleague Boric]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29627	I warned the MP, and I thought and said that this dictionary was inappropriate, so I'm staying with it, and I'm always going to warn them because I find them inappropriate and incorrect. Comrade Petrov, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29628	I couldn't even do this, I'm just answering my word and I'm asking for a round of applause to defend us from the space for our Prime Minister by always Mr. Boris's on call. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29629	Comrade Petrov, you are being warned because this was no violation of the Rules of Procedure, I do not know what you were going to say, there are also certain views that the representative has the right and pointed out something that he does not consider appropriate and okay so please be careful when accusing others. Now it's time for my colleague Marina Opačak Bilic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29630	Thank you. Dear President of the Croatian Government, I must show you this map from 23 pages of the national picture 14 strategy, which clearly shows that the east of Croatia is an area that lagging behind in development. Why is Slavonia on a map for a national strategy and after 30 years still colored with red paint poor when all 30 years of regional policy is run by HDZ in all Slavic counties? Is this not the result of stagnation and wrong political decisions and generally wrong policies, and what is the period that Slavons and once rich Slavonia can expect not to be one of the poorest regions in Croatia because the project Slavonia, which even though it has been spent for 3 years, has not led to the calming colors in this graph. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29631	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29632	Thank you, well-respected MPs Opačak Bilić, I believe that you will show a little more agility and interest to some other MPs from the 4th and 5th constituency by the SDP and will come when these epidemiological occasions allow you to attend meetings of counsel for Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. I think you'll find that useful. Then you will see there exactly the dynamic investment through the policy of cohesion regional development, agricultural, all possible sectors compared to before. So you as a representative from one of these two constituencies will see how much our government has done to make it clear in the strategy of identified points that characterise Slavonia as part of Croatia where there is poverty, where there are consequences of aggression on the Republic of Croatia, where there is a problem of demographic revitalisation, where there is a problem of emigration just having to put on a high list of priorities to change that. This was the goal of our policy in the first term, and it is clear He wants in this strategy. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29633	Comrade Pavić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29634	The respected prime minister in the strategy is mentioned in almost all priority areas through the application of IT technology and is mentioned in one place that a lot of money will be invested in information and communication infrastructure, but nothing is said about the development of the IT sector. IT is still a rapidly growing industry and it is important to know which direction IT industry is intending to support and for a minimum of 3 reasons. First, that our companies can prepare for transition and possible restructuring, secondly, so that foreign companies that are planning to invest in Croatia can prepare and achieve these investments through their strategies and thirdly to prepare ourselves through the education system in order to have the necessary staff. I know that IT will also be mentioned in the national recovery and resilience plan, but still only in application. Is there perhaps another document in which this part of the development of IT industry is to be elaborated in more detail?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29635	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29636	Thank you, well-respected representative Pavić, I think that many Croatian companies, especially in 2020 that come from the IT sector, have shown one truly commendable quality, expertise, engagement and the possibility of being highly competitive at global level, not only in Croatia or Europe. So, we saw the steps that were so far unknown. At the end of the line and the rewards they've received lately confirm it. We are of course with the general trend of digitalisation of the transition of society you well said in the EU instrument Next Generation, Green and Digital Transformation is 37 and 20% of the projects or reforms that must be on the pages of around 120, 121, 122, 122, we spoke in detail about what we want for digital transformation and transition in the economy, and sectoral strategies will work inter-resortly under the leadership of the central state office.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29637	Thank you. Comrade Matul, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29638	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister Plenkovic, in your opening speech on the national strategy, you used literally 3 words when talking about culture. When you talk about goals, you say promoting Croatian culture. Could it be more general? Could it be more generic? In a textbook that's barely a page in the national culture strategy, there's almost nothing. It completely ignores the issue of cultural sector development, institutional innovation, inclusion, availability and approach to culture, as well as democratisation of culture. In your speech you say that you were inclusive at work in the background, I am interested in what cultural strategies you have included in the work of the World Bank, which is the result of this text at the level of poor schoolwork. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29639	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29640	Thank you, well-respected representative Matula, you are the first to use this school dictionary in a rather ironic and cynical way. I'd like you to make an alternative suggestion and then possibly comment on your texts, your ideas, your initiatives, your bases, your comments. I'd say I'm in your position, and you're coming from a culture I was pleased to hear the word culture mentioned in the vision. It is mentioned in the vision in the single most important sentence of the entire document that culture is mentioned. It's not funny, it's a fact, it could not be mentioned. Maybe that would be worse. That would be for laughing or underestimating the work of other people. As for the cultural and creative industry, it accounts for about 3% of Croatian GDP, they are part of the strategic goal 1. A competitive-innovative economy dedicated to culture and the media. Can't a document that includes everything about one area of 10, 15, 20 Or 30 pages. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It's just not real in documents like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29641	Comrade Bencic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29642	Thank you. I must say that today I am truly sorry for every prime minister, minister or any professional person who has to defend this document here today because it is perfectly clear to me that you are aware of everyone who is here, that you are aware that this is an unquality document and that there are contradictions in it, the stupidities that represented someone's flow I would say not unconscious but unconscious because, for example, you write in the same passport that you will reduce the state's presence in the economy but at the same time its development will be based on public investment. You write that at the same time you will make the tax system simpler but also fairer, that we will be the leaders of the green economy but as an indicator for reducing emissions you have given yourself 10% less than what the European objective is. So, please explain to us how this is a good document? [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29643	Here, answer me, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29644	I see you, ma'am. Bencic, you support this document a little less than your colleague Tomašević. He said he was satisfied with the document. You find it, and I quote “poorty. ” You who is so-called. The mix between GONG and DORH, I see you've gone one step further, now you've joined this club so-called. I congratulate you on that, that's your tone, that's your style, that's your assertivity, so if you want this voice show, but that's your style, I'm sure you'll get a lot of support for just that kind of approach. This document is a very high-quality document, a document that we proudly present, a document that was worked on the basis of a professional instruction, a resolute instruction, based on public consultation, and you, for your integrity and dignity, should do a little less underestimatingly... The alternative "I can't hear, can't see" no matter which font you present, we'll read. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29645	Thank you very much. Comrade Kuzmanić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29646	Dear Mr Plenkovic, namely the implementation of each strategy in its objectives should have objectives that are clear, realistic, measurable, time-defined, which is most important to achieve. On the other hand, it is written in circumstances that are different from the circumstances that are now. Just as you, on the one hand, are a smart and educated man, on the other hand, at the head of an organization that so far has solved all the problems of saving the budget in a way that has sold social property and that in this way you've been patching up budget holes, I wonder if you, as Prime Minister, really believe in the realisation of this strategy, and can we expect any new sale of family assets while they are, family silver, while these steps that the strategy states, are being implemented? There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29647	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29648	Thank you very much, Agent Kuzmanic. If I understand correctly, you're talking about the privatisation process, the activation of state property, this process takes 30 years, it takes 30 years to transform from one system of the agreed economy into a market economy system, away from the fact that the privatisation process was brilliant, perfect, that everything was done right, and I think it's clear to everyone but what we do, what this government does, has a very clear strategy that out of the hands or ownership of the state, wants to activate, sell that property that just doesn't make sense that the state has, a large number of societies in which the state or various actors in the country participate is so small that it's pointless to be the owner and with this process we'll continue, everything we do is both transparent and in the interests of the state and the budget if it's not the only way that the budget is filled, we're going to, We've been discharging both the economy and the citizens for years. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29649	Thank you. Comrade Oreshkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29650	Mr. Prime Minister, I'm not gonna ask you a question because you're not answering my questions anyway. In the replica, I'm going to warn you that the National Development Strategy should have some consensus. What we commit ourselves to must be our common goal because implementation exceeds the mandate of a government. What you presented today is not a national but a HDZ strategy in which the design is marginalized, even the role of the Croatian Parliament, after 2 years of your preparation. Croatia has been crying for reforms for decades and just implementing key reforms, this strategy is painfully ignored. In several places you talk about even regional development and we are unable to transform Croatia into several meaningfully connected regions instead of 20 unnecessary counties. You are talking about increasing the quality of public institutions and there is not a single word about how we will strengthen their internal capacities, redesign them to be able to implement quality anti-corruption policies This strategy isn't quality, it's hollow. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] an empty, full flossula as your government is. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29651	Comrade Oreshkovic, you have a minute, I beg you, you are all starting to go out, we have a minute, we decided that it is a minute, not a minute and 10, but a minute. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29652	Thank you very much, esteemed representative Oreshkovic. I haven't actually heard the question, I heard a comment on a series of steps today which aim to underestimate this document, it's not any HDZ strategy, it's a national development strategy, the government led by HDZ, either when this document was started to work or today, it's not a unilateral government, it's members of the parliamentary majority, they're familiar with this document, they're social partners, whether they're trade unions, whether they're employers, they're leaders of local and regional self-government units, they're familiar with the CNB, they're also familiar with the Croatian Parliament. The fact that you may not have personally been among those representatives who were part of the board of directors, so you do not know that, for example, Agent Lerotić of the IDS, who is not the parliamentary majority, participated in a document that he adopted or in a meeting that adopted this document before the government, that is your problem. The marginalization doesn't, but the debate does. You have an idea, expose her.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29653	Thank you. My colleague Posavec the Sinner, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29654	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear President of the Croatian Government, I am being asked a question after reading this strategy, but also after your opening words that it may be the goal of this strategy just to satisfy the form towards Brussels that we can withdraw money from European funds in the period until 2027. So if so, then we can understand it, but if the goal of this strategy is exactly what you are trying to impose all the time, and I will mention that this multi-million-euro strategy is a difficult project to mention that the goal of this project is to think deeply, innovatively and qualityly about Croatia's future and to motivate stakeholders, first of all the business community, then the result of this project is, in my opinion, a failure. Of course you don't want us to compare ourselves to other countries. But I'm curious if you really believe that the approach you've been practicing since you led the Croatian government can draw 90% of the example. Means to achieve [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] this development. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29655	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29656	Dear Representative Posavec Krivec is not sure if you are still working at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, but you are there now, but you are probably on some frozen status, but it doesn't matter. So as someone who has that background and in some way we're ex-boyfriends, I'm trying to figure out what you're actually trying to say. Did you want to say that a document that is broader than the national recovery and resilience plan or the partnership agreement or operational programmes is essentially some form that is just designed to withdraw funds from the EU? Well, given your earlier background, you should know it's not necessarily connected. At the time of the SDP government, we used European funds with not very good, effective means without such a document. The idea was that we had a broad consensus and that it was this kind of document and everything we were going to do in practice. leads to an economic development greater than it is now. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29657	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, thank you, no more replicas. No, no, that replica goes to a colleague or Minister Tramišak. So I'm just asking to delete the pay phone so the minister can come. Here you go, fellow Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29658	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers of Sisak-Moslavina County was badly injured in the Homeland War, we were recently hit by a devastating earthquake, the government of the Republic of Croatia planned to pay particular attention to areas that were not sufficiently developed and which recorded poor population indicators. Among these areas is Banovina. You cited this strategy as one of the main pillars of balanced regional development. Through the Banovina project, but also other projects, you planned 2 billion kunas. Given these latest developments, I am afraid that these funds will not be enough, so I am curious whether we can also expect through this strategy to use some other financial resources to help Banovina and other poorly developed areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29659	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29660	Dear Representative Petir, here I thank you for the question, very important and current especially at the moment. Thus, the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, which was launched by the government some 3 to 4 years ago, showed the need for similar programmes to be launched for other assisted parts of Croatia. It means all those parts of Croatia that are lagging behind the national average and the EU average. The Banovina project, Lika, Dalmatinska Zagora and Gorski Kotar project is also envisaged by the Government's programme until 2024, and now and after a devastating earthquake in thought we have also singled out Banovina as a separate part and a separate project in order to approach the demographic recovery and revitalisation in a more high-quality, systematic way, as well as complete social and economic recovery and revitalisation and regeneration of the area.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29661	I would also like to thank Minister Tramišak. We're done with the replicas. Now I'm gonna call the committee reporter if he wants to take a word for it? If we don't, then we'll move on to the debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of the SDP and esteemed counterpart Siniša Hajdas Doncic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29662	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, as I said, the fundamental question of every society is: any reasonable policy for which a broad consensus is definitely needed, therefore itself preparing this strategy and the strategy itself does not offer, how to actually create a better Croatian society that is prosperous, democratic, solidarity, secure and well-managed, has a low level of corruption. It was also supposed to be a basic vision of this national development strategy. The biggest problem is that the content of this strategy still does not offer a clear picture of what these are the key priorities of Croatia and where we really see Croatia for the next 10 years. So the impression can be that old saying that you can't see a tree from the woods. In this attempt to offer everything in terms of what the EU defines through its key priorities, something crucial has been lost, and these are clearly, unequivocally defined priorities of the Republic of Croatia over the next 10 years. The strategic objectives of the national development strategy should rest on only a couple, no more than 4 clearly defined key objectives or assumptions which are primarily guided by national interests, and only after being harmonised and I will tell the interests or the EU's declared policies. Accordingly, the strategy should rest on parallel reforms and a small number of priorities that should be defined primarily by their importance and thus built and also horizontally linked to all developmental directions. The national development strategy does not address the key political and economic problems faced by the state and the public sector, which is intransparency, extraordinary institutions, corruption, clientelism and social capitalism, which are also the main reasons for Croatian lagging behind the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, and also does not stress the importance of creating quality living conditions which are primarily based on a good document, which is climate neutrality until 2050. It is itself a National Development Strategy and a feature of partner or root capitalism because it is rudely expensive and it is made once again I will stress it in a completely non-transparent way. In addition to the problem, and these are defined goals she recognises 23, some are merely descriptive, and unfortunately for most are only their final target values for 2030. It is not explained how the target sizes are defined, and it is also not explained how the relationship between the objectives is defined. The preparation of this new National Development Strategy was also an opportunity to advocate a new common foundation, a platform for a new social contract that rests on a constructive dialogue between all stakeholders of society. Croatia now needs new development goals that will lead our society through the next decade. It should also be a starting point for creating a new common vision and a new social consensus on what we want for ourselves and what changes and investments we can achieve. Unfortunately, this has not been achieved, and for reasons we can single out and point out, I am glad that Minister Ćorić, who was a lecturer at the Faculty of Economics, is also here, and I can tell you that unfortunately the whole strategy is full of basic mistakes by economic conclusion, so we have... Northaus, we're 18. The new edition can be talked about the error of communication, the error of subjectivity and excessive management of the postulate of cetris paribus. Secondly, the whole process of the strategy and its own production is late, especially because of the fact that the creation and adoption of the strategy should be parallel work and follow the work on key documents for the absorption of eu funds from both ESI Funds and the Next Generation programme. The third big comment is the process itself of making what most of the constituency clubs and parliamentary representatives and MPs mentioned today, which is that the process of making was quite non-transparent, a particularly expensive one, so we don't really know who was behind the production. Here I am not talking about the National Development Strategy document, but about the preparatory analytical studies with which the contract and consultation with the World Bank is agreed, because there is a lot of contradictory information on who the real makers of the study are. Now, if we wanted to be a little bit populist, even though I'm trying to avoid it, you're going to figure out how many 140 pages of this document that's kuna and what's actually going to come out of it. I will also remind you all that in the last few days, better said in the last hours, the finalisation of the strategy was attended by the prime minister and his office. This looks to me like pure improvisation and intervention in order to offer anything in public, any explanation as to why the National Development Strategy is being late. In any case, it would be interesting for everyone to see who and how the World Bank, and I think that's what we're going to say, the taxpayers have the right to know, who she has delegated jobs to and how much she has paid to make certain parts of the strategy. We don't know that. We know who made the strategy, but we are interested in who was working on the basis of the strategy is the public should if we want to avoid the biggest remark that the Republic of Croatia has, which is that our institutions are restrictive and corrupt, we should know how money is spent and why this whole process of developing a strategy was non-transparent. The principle of partnership in the production of programming documents has also been avoided, meaning other than organised initials, which is evident in the discussion within the partner groups, the final process of production took place without the presence of representatives of the Partnership Council or of partner groups from public economic and other areas of life. And then what makes me the most of what is "cynic" is that the whole strategy is full of empty sentences and the closest words of strange claims, here's what I'm going to do, who needs to listen to me very carefully. “Smart management of resources through more efficient integration of mobility, development of municipal, entrepreneurial, transport and social infrastructures and related services and the development of the concept of smart villages and the promotion of local economy development will reduce depopulation processes and foster socio-economic development of assisted mountain and mountainous areas”, page 111. I thought at first that it was the Mole, then you'd be offended... The ticks offended that it doesn't really matter that we're messing with a man in the first place. I wonder what it is, is it a Brussels sentence or something? Furthermore, what everyone should be worried about is actually a forecast of a completely unambitious, almost cowardly defined average economic growth by 2030, so in a 3% projection. The bases spoke 4% and 5% and 2%, but the authors of the National Development Strategy, I don't know why, they just took a 3% growth rate as if reaching the target of income convergence to 75% of the EU average. Every economist, anyone maybe even that high school high school student in 3rd, 4th. The class would've realized it wasn't real. Why? Because, during a certain period of time, the EU's 28 countries have now registered greater economic growth, and without a strong twist or declared objectives in this economic strategy or economic policy, so it is difficult for us to reach 75% of the EU average, but in my opinion, unfortunately, our development differences will increase and increase. What does that mean? This means that if we do not improve our potential, some frontier produces and sustainable growth opportunities, meaning that should include a much wider component than is included in this National Development Strategy, we will hardly reach the level of economic development that our neighbouring countries have in Middle Eastern Europe. So, for example, If our economy were to grow at a rate of 3% as recorded in 2015 to 2017, so I am talking before the covid, Croatia should actually know how much, for a decade or a decade to reach the current standard of Slovenia. So what Slovenia has today we'd be at 20282029. Then what happens? There's always the question of the base, the bases aren't the same. I'm going through the final word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29663	The next National Minorities Club and will speak to the esteemed representative Veljko Kajtazi, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29664	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President HS, respected ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. I welcome the 2030 National Development Strategy proposal that you are defending at HS today, and I hope that as quickly as possible adoption will be made to achieve the objectives set out as soon as possible. What we need to say, in which we believe we all agree, we cannot be satisfied with the analysis of the existing situation, and we cannot be satisfied with the 2030 projection. which isn't as far away as the first one could do. I am expressing concern because at the beginning of this decade that the strategy applies to, and after several economically successful years, we have been paralyzed by a crisis related to the coronary virus and then by two devastating earthquakes. In the hope that we will come out of this stronger and more resilient, especially becoming the goal of equal living conditions and equal opportunities for everything the strategy recognises because precisely the quality of life and equal approach to education, health system, labour market, must be our common and ultimate goal. As a representative of the Roma national minority, I must point out that it is important for all institutions to carry out activities that are part of strategic planning to ensure that among these documents and the National Plan for Roma inclusion for the current period. I'm saying that governmentists, or the Office for Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, are as technical as not a classical executive body with great powers as a ministry. It is therefore important to say that such specificity must not be misused in a way that solves all Roma problems in a government office. Of course, they are the main coordinators, but every state office, every ministry, each part of the system must assume its part of the responsibility for implementation because there will be no achievement of the basic objective of the strategy unless we all act together towards inclusive and equal opportunities societies for all. And another important thing. It doesn't mean that like us, like one mayor told me, both of them. Just because we have special strategies for Roma, for cancer patients, for defenders, for gender equality, we as a state, as a social state, detect that equality does not exist and that special measures, special activities, need to be implemented in order to achieve greater equality, that someone must be in charge, responsible. It is especially important that this responsibility should not be on one person, one body, because if we thought so then the social protection system, the system of any kind at national level, should not and all of us should be able to take care of ourselves. This is particularly important when we talk about education, and an example from other countries' history shows that positive discrimination is a good thing, not only does it open up to someone with less luck than he had but also because society also brings more profits, incentives, a more creative environment, and this is a private sector long ago recognized, especially by global companies. It is understandable that such a practice should exist in every aspect of society, and that ignoring the problem is something more expensive than solving it. In this respect, the strategy also says that increasing human capital through education and promotion, including inactive people on the labour market is a necessary prerequisite for increasing productivity. Budgets showing that we're going to be in 2030. to be at 75% of the EU average, when talking about the level of living standards, it should not be a goal to meet. This can certainly help not only Roma as the youngest part of our company's labour voltage, which is not targeted and used, especially in the export-oriental sector, and such examples of the Roma community's contribution from the shipyard in Istria to, say, Technics today as the most successful firm in Međimurje. I'm always glad to hear stories about inclusiveness, especially those that are mutually beneficial to the individual and community. A recent research co-ordinated by the Office for Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities, results say that the self-employed person is very few, not even 7%. A small number of people declare that they have a temporary job or that they do seasonal work. The largest number declares that it does occasional jobs, and such a form of work is the most widespread form of Roma work in the Republic of Croatia. Only 39.3% of people who are constantly, temporarily, seasonally or occasionally working signed the written Labour Contract, which means they have or have had the employment status of an employee. If we look at the overall cause of adult patients up to 65 years of age, The age of 16.4% can be associated with people who sometimes signed a contract to work with the employer and concluded that less than 19% of adult Roma have experience of a working person. This is also important in the context of uncontrolled migration and the fact that we import tens of thousands of workers into the Republic of Croatia as well as the EU. Lately, more and more from the Far East who do not know our language, culture and customs until at the same time we do enough to include our potential citizens in the labour market. Inclusion of Roma in education and work processes and companies... The situation on the one hand reduces the non-productive expenditure of the state and on the other hand we achieve a better economic picture without the interference of foreign workers who spend money primarily in the countries from which they come. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, I'm not the first person to notice this, but we need to repeat that information, and I expect it from both the government and the Human Rights Office, and also from economic and craft chambers along with the mere but also high schools, steps in this direction. I support this strategy, among other things, because it states that one of the biggest challenges of the coming decade will be to overcome passiveness and the risk of poverty, discouraged in the labour market and older people and also the fact that the problems of labour shortages will re-emerge again strongly in the future stress the lack of the potential of their own working-age population. We must not be passive about these grades because it is precisely one of the main reasons why our citizens are dissatisfaction. The last earthquake drew our attention to Sisak-Moslavina County as an example of major regional inequalities, to which people across the country reacted in solidarity. That is why the state also deals with public policies and the differences on various graphs to deal with as much as possible. What I also expect is that the area populated by minorities and especially by the Roma national minority within the meaning of the 4th strategic definition, even regional development, is recognised as an area with developmental specificities in which a greater share of the activities of the central state is needed to start things from a dead end. I am very sorry that this inequality is almost the same in highly developed areas as the poor ones because Roma live as badly in Istria and in Međimurje County as those in Slavonia, on the contrary, sometimes we have examples that Roma live better in assisted areas, particularly in the Bela Manastir or Belist than in Čakovec, which is a sad consequence that is deeply rooted and in the behaviour of local self-government units. In addition to having to invest in education, especially lifelong education, we must no longer fall into the trap of informal education, workshops and seminars that are important, giving the foundation to a lot of things but on the labour market is worth nothing. On the other hand, we also cannot ignore the need to change the state of... programmes, investments, infrastructure, in areas populated by vulnerable groups because living in such an environment is one of the main obstacles to better integration and the interaction of the population. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How many of you have entered the Roma household or the Roma house? I'm glad the strategy recognizes the influence of the media and invites you to... journalism and the media community we also work on and what is an important prerequisite for integration and mutual information between different social groups because, as we often say, ignorance initiates conflicts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Valuable issues and subjective sense of freedom and acceptance are, in this sense, an important aspect of economic progress, which is also important for the role of the judiciary, its speed and consistent implementation of anti-discrimination-related policies, which is not yet satisfactory. These are just some of the issues that I wanted to highlight today and I would like to point out once again that the National Minority Club will support the adoption of a strategy in the form provided and in hopes of asking us to stick to what we are calling for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29665	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives will be that Bridge in the name of which the respected representative Bozo Petrov will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29666	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Summary of this national strategy, which should show in the next 10 years which direction Croatia is heading, which determines Croatia's direction for the next 10 years is the next. The government still lives in the economic past and the economic past is not well analyzed, there is not a single concrete measure in the strategic document, there are only 1,000 wishes. Besides, there is no solution to our greatest challenges. He's three years late, which is why we're gonna be late withdrawing funds from European funds, which brings us to the next question. Why could this cobweb, this fog, the list of beautiful desires not have been much better written by a group of Croatian experts who certainly knows better about the state of our country, what our country needs, what challenges do we have to face that we can move towards a better future? What were we supposed to pay 32 million kuna for? That our Prime Minister could be praised for being written by the World Bank. And to be clear,... Because somebody made $32 million, you know what I mean? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I think you should congratulate those who managed to write a document like this and charge it 32 million kuna, they're capable. Well, this team from the World Bank, they're capable of writing something like this and getting 32 million kuna for it. My only problem is that we paid, we turned out to be fools for that 32 million kuna. Why does the government live in the economic past, so you can't do it in this strategy, you don't see that it's been a year in any particular circumstances because of the coronary epidemic, the time as if it cares. We could hear the Prime Minister accusing others of living in a winter dream. It seems to me that the entire government lives in a winter dream if it confirms that the proposal is such a strategy in which there is almost no mention of it. The economic situation in our country has changed terribly in the last year, and as much as it has changed in a year, so much will change in another year. And they're building a strategy in a way that these years are gone, so I don't know, people are going to be vaccinated, and it's going to continue as it was before and well. It's not working. I mean, we're in a very unusual moment today, we need to bring a strategy or the government is trying to bring a strategy for the next ten years, the government doesn't even know if it's going to open cafes tomorrow. Okay, we need to make a strategy for the next ten years, we need to have a specific plan, but that plan should contain certain concrete measures, contain parameters to measure how successful we are in achieving this strategy for the next ten years, so there's no such thing as that. Okay, at least we should be objective about our past, about the economic analyses that Croatia has passed, and we are not objective about it either. It mentions praise for the government itself for GDP growth, and it is known that GDP has increased by 5% since its passive and bad policy has driven people out of the country who then paid them back. And that's all the wisdom of this government in the last three, four years so GDP has grown 5%, and they've had room to hire their staff, in these last two, three days we can see how these personnel get jobs, how the current government gets elections anyway, we could see it all, and that's it, and we have to listen and we have to say, we agree. What are we getting along with? With a list of 100 or 1,000 wishes. Well, I think that absolutely every average in this country knows, so at least in your family when you have 1,000 wishes, 1,000 plans, a thousand goals, you won't achieve any, you don't have any because you don't know what your priorities are, you don't know what your primary goal is. For me, in this criminalised country, the main goal of fighting corruption is to fight corruption, the fight against partner capitalism, the fight against the crown of capitalism, the fight against political interference in the economy, the main goal. You can't expect any investors to come to you in Croatia, there isn't, you can't expect the market to work when you put your political paw on it. You devoted half a page to it, half a page of a document where I don't know what you didn't want to list, the main challenge for the Republic of Croatia is halfway across the page. And you know what else was in this strategy half page? Challenge the fire department. This is how you experience Croatia's biggest problem, fighting corruption is at the level of a fire department. And good for the firemen. I still think the much bigger problem than the firefighters is our corruption where you lead that column. In addition, please tell me on what basis should we trust you to perform this list of good wishes? You, for example. You mention that agriculture is your wish and that you will spend until 2030. You've had 270 million kunas for the project in the past financial period. You know how much money you spent on that? Zero lip, and you've had all the time in this world, all the levels of this government. Now you're saying what to do in the next ten years. Is there any guarantee that this wish list will come true because we have the Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic? It's not. You know why? In 2016, this man took the lead in the implementation of another strategy, the Strategy for the Development of Education, Science and Technology. What happened? Nothing. So, absolutely nothing to me from your previous actions don't tell me you'll do anything in the future. And then when you look at all of this strategy, there's a couple of comical supplements like this. So in the strategy itself, let me just tell you on page 5 you say that the development of technology will come as a threat and a danger. So, what did you give the citizens? You've given the citizens that they can report whatever and whatever they can go through. So they can talk about technology as advantages and technology as a threat, all projects will pass and no project must pass. That's what you did with a National Strategy that defines our country's path for the next ten years. And there are other stories like this, so you have a few truths, you have finally admitted that the Krsh-Pade affair, that renewable energy sources, as you defined them a few years ago, are not properly defined, are not fair, are not fair and that there is corruption. It is also interesting how you defined these renewable energy sources, but I ask you to be honest with people in Croatia. Tell them about this whole thing that you had to bring in such a strategy as you're going to call the Strategy because you need a document on which to withdraw funds from EU funds. Don't lie to people. And that's fair. But if that's the case, you shouldn't have brought another 32 million kuna out of Croatia. I'll get your story back to square one. Not enough for me, but excellent Croatian experts could have made a 10 times better strategy for much less money, and this money could have been spent in much better ways when you made everything pro-forma.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29667	Thank you. The next club will be the Croatian sovereigns, the time will be shared by the respected representative Zekanovic and Pavliček, the first respected representative of Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29668	Dear Minister, dear ministers. So we're talking about the National Development Strategy. I would like to compare this document that we are adopting today with a document relating to some decade of political work, and this is about the most wanted book of the decade of politics, books first, Eve Sanader. We are now talking about a ten-year development programme, namely the national strategy of Andrej Plenkovic. We can compare it by the number of sides, it's about li-la. 130 pages, 140 pages, one and the other document, with one document Ivo Sanader working with his own resources this time, and another document was paid by Andrej Plenkovic 30 million kunas and not by Croatian experts but by foreign experts. This document that we are considering today is a list of good wishes, and at least this part that is presented to us, at the level of an average high school student, a high school essay. I'm not even gonna say prom. There is not one single exact piece of information based on which we can evaluate, evaluate the work not only of this government, but of all governments in the next period. Not one exact piece of information. However, Andrej Plenkovic here, speaking from this pay phone, had just said one piece of information, which is that we will strive for this 10-year period of fertility, for those who do not know what it is, is the number of live births per woman in that reproductive period, to raise from 1.47 to 1.8. And he obviously doesn't know that 1.8 is also a natural decline and that it should, according to demographics and 2.4 children, or a child per mother to keep the population at 0. So he's predicting us, and he's dealing with the fact that we and the next 10 years are going to be demographically disappearing. And out of the entire 130-page strategy, he found only 3 pages of such beautiful desires, without any number, without anything, to say anything about demographics. In this strategy, which is extremely important, there is not a single word, in a sentence, of the fight against illegal migration. It's not there. The illegal migrants only mention something about the protection of the Mediterranean. It's not in what you gave us, it's not. A colleague, Pavic, defended Andrej Plenkovic, said that we have those acts that explain it. All these accompanying acts he has are very much related to the period, a large majority of them not until 2030 relating to the period until 2026, '25, '29, and not 2030. On the basis of what was this Strategy done by 2030 if it did not apply to either or to the large majority of the acts that we received in support? It is also very interesting and indicative to mention the EU 349 times in this strategy and only 105 times in Croatia. I think it's all clear. If we mention 3 times more of the EU about Croatia about the Croatian National Development Strategy, then everything tells us what the strategy is like. And finally, I have to say here what should be key, and it's not included in this strategy. And this is the cost of benefit analysis of the EU, i.e. a cost-effectiveness study of Croatia's EU membership. How much money we give the EU, how much money we draw from the EU. How many of our workers go to the EU, build Berlin and Paris, how many Croatian consumers buy European products, and finally, how much money do we get from the EU? I am ready for this analysis, they are ready and eager to wait for Croatian citizens, but unfortunately until this government we cannot expect it. Here you go, colleague Pavlichek, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29669	... The Honorable Representative Pavliček will continue. [[Specially enabled.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29670	Dear Vice President, dear ministers. Here, it has already been mentioned several times today, primarily by opposition representatives, this strategy is unfortunately just a list of beautiful desires and reality is something quite different. When a man looks at this whole strategy, and he sees that real GDP growth is planned from 2023 to 2030 from 3.5%, and that in the previous two years, not counting in 2020 because of the pandemic's crown, GDP was below 3%, then we wonder if it's reality or whether it's a list of good wishes and that it's the old "paper all suffers," so I'm afraid that's how this strategy is going to be. This strategy speaks of a balanced regional development of the Republic of Croatia. So how are we going to achieve this even regional development when we have 555 municipalities and cities today, when in Slavonia, which is one of the most underdeveloped areas of the Republic of Croatia, we have several dozen municipalities with less than 1000 inhabitants, which are economically unsustainable, which would not survive if there were no balance from the state budget? How would you like to achieve this even regional development when today in Slavonia you have an average of 30% less net salary than in the rest of the Republic of Croatia? How would this even regional development be achieved when today, throughout the entire system of state you have almost in all areas of society corruption, when Croatia today belongs to the five most corrupt countries of the EU, and this same strategy speaks of less than half of the site? The strategy also speaks of demographics and demographic restoration of the Republic of Croatia, while the current government has abolished the Ministry of Demography. So much about the quality of this strategy and absolutely nothing will change by adopting and voting this national strategy in HS, everything will remain as it has been. No real reform has been launched in the last few years, and therefore the indicators are not very much in favour. That is why we are today the most recent country for development and GDP in the EU, which is why today we are the last country to spend per capita in the EU, even Bulgaria, which is behind us year after year. So we should go and start working, not bring in documents that will unfortunately never be realized and God gave half of what this strategy says to be realized, Croatia will be a happier country, its citizens will obviously never live better, but I'm afraid there will be nothing of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29671	The next Club of Representatives is that green-left bloc on behalf of which the respected representative Damir Bakic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29672	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, dear ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. At first, I think it is important to make a conceptal distinction of a methodological document that we are discussing called a strategy, but in this case, it is difficult to talk about a strategy because the strategy implies not only setting a set of goals but, of course, the way they are achieved, some action plan, actions, some set of activities. In this case, there is no such plan, no actions planned, no deadlines, no indicators, no operators. In that sense, there's no obligation. This document makes no commitment to anyone, so it doesn't cost anybody to make promises, for example. 3% of GDP invest in science instead of current less than 1 or e.g. to promise 95% of children aged 4. in preschool education instead of the current 83%. That's what the prime minister would say is an unbearable ease of promise. In that sense, this strategy could be seen earlier as a list of good wishes, as many of you colleagues and colleagues have already said today. At best, orientation, only that orientation is uncertain, unclear because it lacks vision and it fails to recognise some of the most important national interests or priorities. But before I go into the media stress, I can't mention some places in the text in this document that give up inadmissible negligence in the mechanical takeover of certain phrases, probably from World Bank material. Like that. on page 41, we can read “so young people will continue to promote studies of science. ” Science study, that's the problem with the sains. Or on the page. 42 ‘digital transformation of science’ is intended to take place. I come from a world of science and I don't know, and I don't think I'll ever know what "digital transformation of science" is. There are also a lot of rude intrusiveness or debauchery as on page 26, which says "Croatia will be among the European leaders in turning climate and environmental challenges into opportunities". All of this, however, can only be placed in minor gaps compared to the key ones, which is the inability to recognise key strategic directions and goals of development of the Republic of Croatia. This strategy has managed to miss and not even recognize the most important and necessary education. It can be seen that some other basic social tasks are inadequately treated, health, social security, culture. We could discuss this as well as many other topics, but my intention today is to point to the place and role of education on the one hand and on the other hand to value and functional positioning and education in this document. Education is much more than a bit of economic progress as the strategy only understands it, much more than a mere tool that is uniquely used for better positioning on the labour market. Education is a prerequisite for understanding and adapting to the profound changes we face, education is a key condition for achieving and improving all other tasks of a sustainable and inclusive society while at the same time building and preserving the individual integrity of each person. Only by education can we answer questions that are entirely new and prepare ourselves to seek answers to those we do not know yet. Only by education and further learning will we be able to adapt to the speed of change and those who are already catching up to us and those who are currently following, and we cannot see them right now. Education is the key to reducing inequality, higher education will give us a better chance for individual and collective, material and spiritual prosperity than the lack of education, insufficient education, and is already a key factor or source of insurmountable inequalities in working conditions, in health, in leisure. Finally, education is also the most important key to understanding diversity, understanding and accepting different social groups to strengthen understanding of tolerance, solidarity. Now let's look at how education understands and interprets this strategy. It is written hierarchically, at the top of the pyramid are four national strategic directions, on the second level as components of these directions we have 13 strategic objectives, at the third level these objectives are divided into 47 priority public policies. Only here at the third level in these 47 homes is education and science. The education of preschool, school and high is covered by three homes of 47 of them, with the next priority public policies such as the development of sustainable and innovative and resistant tourism, the protection of the dignity of Croatian defenders, the development of air traffic, the management of state property, the improvement of the fire system, etc., etc. No one reasonable has anything against improving the system of fire or the management of state property, but if these two valuable activities are in strategic thinking of our future, hierarchically equated with education and science, and with culture, then we are deeply executed as a society. It is no wonder that about science and education in the document and there is no God knows what, in particular, there is no, and I have already mentioned, some of the essential objectives set out in the Strategy of Education, Science and Technology. So, for example. A full ten lines of preschool education, as many as eleven in a 153 - page document, reads about preschool education and education. There is no word in the high school house about raising quality, especially postgraduate studies, about attracting foreign students, about interdisciplinaryism, about the activities of the university in the community there is nothing. It is similar in the schoolhouse, there is nothing there about improving the teaching profession, the position of teachers on a scale and at all in society, the preparation of students to participate in social life, the artistic component in education, the autonomy of school, the promotion and management of schools, the equal opportunities for all and the work with students with special needs is just one phrase. In fact, everything says clearly shows that in our thinking of time, knowledge and learning are neither trust or priority. And not only that, but this paper on education especially on higher education and science looks only through market glasses, almost exclusively in labour market functions. That's the fundamental problem with this document, at least when I'm talking about education. The street in which we are guided by a strategy that education does not see as a driving force, as a substance, as a content that is a necessary condition of development that street is blind. And finally this, you're looking for consensus, but in the eyes of this whole document was made without any participation of the opposition. All associations, all associations, all associations, are involved in the managing board of national strategies, only the opposition parties asked nothing, and beware the strategy is called national and is written for a longer time horizon than the mandate of this government, it has been written for a decade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29673	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs will be the SDSS on behalf of which the respected representative Dragana Jeckov will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29674	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Minister, representative of the Ministry of Regional Development. It is before us that we have had the opportunity to hear one of the most important economic and reform documents that should determine the quality of life both today and in the future. The documents of this type are important not only to fulfill, as a state, the form which is set by the EU and to bring in a document of what other countries have or a document on which to withdraw some funds, but we need it to outline certain objectives that we need to achieve. Many ministries, a wider professional and academic community and representatives of a number of interested stakeholders have been working on this strategic document as we have had the opportunity to hear. The aim was to identify and design the best way to use all economic, natural, social and human potentials for quality progress and development over the next 10 years. Such a vision of Croatia was to be achieved through one synergy of public policies, as we had the opportunity to hear in 4 developmental directions, and within them 13 strategic objectives. The objectives presented are, in fact, one global, overall development target, so the strategy predicts GDP growth to 75% of the EU average, which is certainly a major challenge given that we are currently, so we are currently at 65% according to last year's data. The employment rate should increase from today's 67% to 75% over the next 10 years. The share of exports in GDP should rise from today's 52% to 70%. This would mean that from the current 63rd place on the global competitiveness scale, we would jump to 45th place. The negative demographic image is certainly one of the biggest challenges in our country. The reduction in the number and ageing of the population can have major economic and social consequences and it is certainly necessary to have an effective response. Croatia simply needs to implement a demographic policy to increase the fertility rate and create a stimulating and attractive social and economic environment for staying. Therefore, investment in public infrastructure with an emphasis on increasing the housing fund is needed in order to provide permanent housing for young people. This should certainly take into account the strengthening of the capacities involved in preschool and school education institutions and the inclusion of children in preschool and school education both due to socialisation and the coordination of family and business life of parents. I welcome the idea that Croatia wants to continue housing measures in assisted areas in order to keep those who have lived there for generations and to seek to improve measures that reduce the loss of income of parents especially women during maternity and parental leave, and even more so to eliminate this loss entirely. From the perspective of national minorities, it is an important strategic objective of 12 relating to the development of assisted areas and areas with developmental specificities, as these are mainly areas populated by national minorities. The main development issues of less developed areas in Croatia concern an unfavourable economic structure marked by the weak role of the private sector and the high presence of the state sector, underdeveloped human capital, low culture of entrepreneurship, insufficiently effective institutions, depopulations, emigration and ageing of the population. The key role in improving the situation in these areas will have an integrated approach to investment in joint development initiatives of several local self-government units, with the central role of small cities considered development generators in the environment particularly affected by negative demographic and economic developments. I will also highlight the approach to social services that are important for reducing the risk of poverty and limiting inequalities resulting from differences in the development of certain areas, while equating the availability of social and health services and harmonising their structure with the demographic and social characteristics of the population. Although the strategy particularly highlights Banija and the problems that have been deepened by the recent earthquake, I think it is not enough that, through specific programmes, reconstruction and recovery of public infrastructure of private and business objects that are indisputable, but before the earthquake, there was actually a need for transformation before and before the earthquake, for a kind of mini revolution in industrial terms to turn Banija into a better demographically rebirth place and a overall better place to live. The same story with Western Slavonia, with the character, with the Zadar hinterland, are all areas that need revitalisation to ensure on them in view of the degree of their underdevelopment. Although the objectives of the national development strategy are quantified and represent Croatia as we want it to be, we also need to make a plan of action if we want this strategy to be fully implemented in practice. That's what might actually be one of the biggest shortcomings in this strategy. It is necessary to determine between targets, interphases and deadlines how many percentages should be achieved in a given category, so let's say until '24 or '28 simply to know where we are. By doing this strategy, we could not only call it a list of good wishes but it would be a quality basis for a number of radical reforms that we really need in our country to climb that ladder that we have drawn. And not only that, it's not enough to carry out the reform but to carry out more reforms than our competitors because it's a basic prerequisite for us to outreach someone, especially because other countries won't sit on their hands and wait for us to outrun them. If we achieve the objectives of the strategy, not necessarily all of them, but at least most of them, Croatia could become a more competitive country whose citizens would reach the standard we have in other parts of the EU. The prerequisite for the successful implementation of this strategy is the engagement of all of us who must insist on monitoring and implementing the specific development objectives. Based on the presented Club of Representatives of the SDSS will support the National Development Strategy by 2030 and we are aware that a lot of joint work is ahead of all of us and certainly a demanding period awaits us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29675	The next Club of Representatives is that of the Centre and GLAS, and time will be shared by respected MPs Mrak-Taritaš and Oreshković, first respected representative of Anka Mrak-Taritaš, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29676	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. At first I'll say this is weak. After so much expectation, waiting, and not talking about the amount paid for the strategy at all, we got one longer seminar work. The theme of this seminar work was to list all possible general places that were constantly mentioned in all strategies, plans and programmes for 30 years. And that's exactly what this student has done very successfully. This is a carefully compiled list of all sorts of beautiful desires that authors could come up with. If I had to say in one sentence what this strategy is, then I would say that the strategy says that we have to be smart and beautiful and it's important that we don't move out. I personally made a series of remarks in the public debate when you see where it says "partially accepted", and when you enter a little bit into the structure of all this then it is clear that this strategy could at all work to predict a huge number of other strategies, plans and low-level programmes. Again, we're just spinning around in circles without finally having any idea, any idea, any decision starting to take concrete effect. A strategy written like this no matter how long it was expected, expected, we didn't need it. We could've just written that we'd be better at everything than we've done so far, but in order to do that, we need to write 10 more of the other documents because, as usual, we're not going to write them at the end. This strategy is not for the next 50 years, this strategy is not for the next 100 years, this strategy is only for the next 10 years. That's 10 years old. We won't blink the eye. That's why it's really an unreal and inconclusive plan to succeed. All in all, I think the strategy should be focused and set at least some priorities. How locally missed it also shows that the EU is defined as Croatia's international activity, rather than European policies, together with the position and opportunities of Croatia and the Union, were the basis for drawing up a strategy. The strategy defines some strategic goals, but in all of them it is too general and in fact it still does not know where and how we should go. Let each of us ask ourselves, that's something when you learn, when you learn during your studies, when you write certain articles, then they have the key words, so when you write a scientific article you have 5 keywords. Ask yourself what 5 keywords from this strategy would be from which one would recognize what Croatia 2030 is. What kind of Croatia we want in 2030, and how are we going to do that, or what tools are we going to use? Part of the economy, this is the first chapter that I was particularly interested in, I was wondering what would be some new step, what changes are needed for key products of the sector, for tourism, for cultural and creative industries, for the development of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship? You can't see anywhere how a little of that might come true. It continues with very undefined goals of 3% investment in science and the topic in response to all problems. It's not and can't be the answer to all the problems. There is also a mention of renewable energy sources without further consideration. These are hundreds of common places already seen. It is convenient and interesting to observe this strategy parallel to the budget, so we have a budget for 2021, we have some ways in which it will be 2022, and then it is convenient to see that what we say in the strategy is that we will stand up and work, which is in the budgets. And then when we get to the projections for the next 2. And the strategy says we're going to encourage a little entrepreneurship, and then you come to a projection for the next 2nd g. And you can see that there's a cut in the budget in half. How are we gonna do that? Just on paper. When you see a little subject of education, a topic, another goal that is important to us, so that we have, that we finance gifted students, so students in all areas, we also see that no step has been made. So phrases are one, paper is another, and reality is something quite third. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29677	The next club of representatives, and I'm sorry, the time has divided the club with respected representative Dalia Oreskovic, so she will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29678	The Honorable Chairman. Fellow MPs and MPs. There is even part of my pride in calling on HS for the first time since independence debates and adopts a document that should be a framework for development in the next decade, but that is precisely why I have an obligation and responsibility to point out that we have a clear vision and defined goals should have the same moment as we have created the state and because a state that does not know what and a state that does not know how to manage its potential, a state that does not know what it should do to ensure the prosperity of its citizens in the future and is not a state in the full sense of that word, so the question is, are we in this sense state at all? The way the political parties led the country so far shows that Croatia is tailored to the extent of the large political cartels that have gnawed almost all our hopes and all our prosperity. We're discussing this document at a point where we're getting closer and closer to just touching the bottom. I also came to point out that we are discussing a document created for two years by a political party that is directly responsible for persuasion of Croatia by corruption, and that corruption by its devastating consequences we can call without any doubt its greatest monsters worse than war. Even if this document were too high and high-quality, and it wasn't, this circumstance of who wrote it and created it in itself would be sufficient reason to doubt its usefulness. The document, however, is ill-conceived and clearly does not recognise how the development strategy should be conceived in view of the starting point and the moment in which we are thinking about the future. The existence of a National Development Strategy that is real, which is genuine and which is quality-designed is what distinguishes prosperous societies from those societies that are not progressing. However, the value of each strategy is estimated by the extent to which it will be implemented and to which the objectives are pursued. And here we are already coming to the main reason why this strategy is completely missing. Removing the economic and social damage caused by the global crisis caused by the pandemic of the coronary virus is not the main problem to which this strategy should be referred because Croatia has lag behind and moved back and forth in its development before these events that have shaken the whole world. The crown did not cause Croatia to collapse at all levels, so its consequences are not a dominant problem for us to recover from. The aim of the National Development Strategy should be to prepare a state and society for the future and we will find it difficult to achieve that goal unless we are able to honestly admit how and why we are burned here where we are now, and we could not even have imagined it at the moment when we created an independent and independent state. There are many parts of the text that are thus untrue to represent the insult of Croatian citizens and the dreary reality in which our citizens live, and this reality is far from politics even further from those who share public positions and privileges on the principle of a corrupt question, what would you be? The example of such a sentence is on page 13 which says that Croatia will have to further increase the efficiency of its institutions, which in recent years record continuous progress that confirms the growing position on the relevant international scales. I ask questions, no matter what institutions you're talking about? If, according to anything, Croatia has failed and failed the expectations of its citizens, it is the fact that since the beginning of its existence, Croatia has not built institutions according to the law and tasks the law defines. Croatia has not built institutions that would take care of the interests of its citizens and other public interests that they should actually implement in practice. Our institutions are under-capitalised and the first strategic objective of this development strategy should be to build and strengthen them, their internal redesign. There are also parts of the text that the Centre Party warmly welcomes because they are part of our policy objectives and programmes, and I think about reducing the tax burden on both the population and the economy, reducing the expenditure side of the budget, and we welcome the announcement that the Ministry of Finance, in cooperation with other authorities of the state administration, will continue a detailed review of each expenditure item to increase the efficiency of budgetary spending, but all of this strategy is misconceived.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29679	Thank you. The next club of representatives is that of the HNS and independent representatives, and will be spoken by the respected representative Predrag Štromar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29680	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. In today's globalised world burdened with the pandemic of covids, crises, elemental disasters, terrorism and many other challenges planning the future is more important than ever before. Recognizing trends in its own strengths and weaknesses is essential for turning challenges into opportunities, but also for strengthening the resilience of society and its greater willingness to face unpredictable circumstances. That is why Croatia must have defined objectives and a clear vision of progress and development. We are also ahead of us as an EU member of Europe, which is an important role in the realisation of the objectives and we need to know how to use them. Therefore, the National Development Strategy as the first roof strategic document of this kind with a long-term vision of Croatia's development represents a comprehensive, ambitious and precise list of objectives that Croatia should achieve in the next decade. It is also the starting point for the development of a whole series of sectoral documents to support its implementation and the basis for planning the state budget and programming the use of European funds. What we in HNS would like specifically to look at this strategy is the issue of education or vision and the objectives of developing the education system as one of the key backbones of general social development. That is why I would like to make a few observations that should contribute to the quality of articulation of this significant problem. I believe that the text of the strategy should focus more attention on interdisciplinaryism, as this follows the modern concepts of scientific and research work. The plan for articulation and new legal solutions in the field of education and science should, in particular, pay particular attention to the adoption of legislation that would finally build a dual education system. It is an extremely important issue with special attention in its term as former Minister of Science and Education Prof. She's a savage. In its mandate, Minister Divjak has also contributed in particular to the process of informing and digitising the education system and what we consider important is to ensure a continued increase in resources in the state budget in the future. We support the position presented in the National Development Strategy that young scientists are our most significant human capital. Education certainly represents an investment with the largest and most lasting return and a prerequisite for recovery and take-off of our business sector is actually them. We also welcome the fact that the priorities of implementing policies in the field of combating radicalism, extremism, terrorism are included and strengthening legislative frameworks and cooperation with the public and relevant actors to remove hate speech from public space. I would like to remind you that, on this particular issue, representatives of the HNS Club and independent representatives have repeatedly stepped forward in this assembly. The established development guidelines and strategic objectives should contribute to the better use of the Republic of Croatia's potential, to remove economic and social damage caused by the global crisis and to foster the rapid recovery of our country. When operationalising the objectives set out in the National Development Strategy, I hope that particular consideration will be taken of reducing public debt deficits, more rational management of budgetary expenditures and state property, and in particular to increase public investment and to make faster and more effective use of European funds to make as much use of all resources as possible and as much quality as possible. We need to use economic recovery from the crisis to build new business and legal standards that will boost productivity in new industries. I also hope that we will accelerate the blood flow of the entire economy through the mitigation of certain rigid legal solutions and practices. Following all of this, the Croatian National Development Strategy's Club of HNS representatives and independent representatives will support the proposal by the National Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia until 2023. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29681	On behalf of the IDS Representatives' Club, they will now speak to the esteemed representative Marin Lerotić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29682	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here's the main strategic document, the National Strategy by 2030, but it's mildly said, nothing new. We all know that we want to launch private investment, increase the efficiency and efficiency of the public administration and the judiciary, even regional development, but as a state, we obviously do not know how we want to achieve this. The National Strategy says private investment will be encouraged while we currently have a situation where investors are burdened with a large number of parafiscal and fiscal burdens, with various taxes to face legal uncertainty. Investors need legal certainty and the setting of clear frameworks in which they operate. We need to strengthen the investment climate, which would certainly contribute to an efficient and digitised public administration, and it is the state that is obliged to ensure legal, material and technical conditions for the public administration to finally enter the 21st century. During the lockdown in March, we saw that this could be done, but we should have the will and desire for it, and we unfortunately do not have it at the moment. We can't be on this level for a year, let alone for 10 years, because it's a map in one direction that leads us to ruin. We have to do everything to stop talking about us as a country with a bad entrepreneurship climate because otherwise, we're going to have few remaining investors leave and the new one sure as hell won't come. The question and what exactly are we doing to keep important investors in Croatia? I've been talking in the Assembly for a long time about Bat in Kanfanar and the uncertain fate of workers. We look forward to government moves. For our economy, the departure of BAT from Croatia was a huge blow that would not have been so easy to recover from. Therefore, we simply must not allow such a scenario. Furthermore, one of the key developments in the strategy's development is the same approach to health care and to give an effective response to the health crisis, however, let's ask ourselves how? We are aware that the pandemic has had a negative impact on the health system both in our country and in the vast majority of European and world countries, but we must admit that our system, or health system, is not in crisis just because of the crown, but it is a problem we have for decades. We don't have enough medical staff, current employees are literally shooting at stitches because of too much work, our hospitals are in poor and abandoned condition, not to mention the insanely long waiting list. However, we also have a problem with the debt of large-scale drugs where we have recently been saving the supply of drugs to our hospital. So this is something that is incompatible with a sustainable health system and it is clear that these problems are not since yesterday and that the crown is not their only cause. While on the one hand we are struggling with a lack of medical personnel on the other hand we have a situation in Pula where all the legal conditions for the establishment of a medical college in Pula are met, and the establishment persists and that is unfortunately our reality. We would like improvements, and we are doing nothing to achieve it or otherwise we further complicate and make it difficult to make improvements within the system itself. And now I'm afraid this strategy will not change anything drastically. Next big problem in Croatia, agriculture. The government must finally make a complete turn on agricultural production because long-term policy has led us into a situation that is not sustainable. In order for agriculture not only to succeed, but also essentially needs to become a strategic branch and should be at the top of economic priorities, and food production must be a national interest. It's sad, and it's very worrying that we have this potential, but obviously we don't have a clear vision and clear goals that obviously neither people who would make state decisions that would make agriculture in a substantive and essential sense a strategic branch. We have abandoned agricultural lands that have failed for years and become mockery instead of putting them into office. So, after we see the situation in entrepreneurship and agriculture, we come to the realization that Croatia must not focus solely on tourism. We saw this last 2020 that relying on tourism alone can be very dangerous. We also have significant but insufficient potential in tourism. For example, in Istria, where we record growing tourist growth every year had an abandoned and unsustained railway line that has been crying for modernisation for years. Modernising the railway in Istria would certainly make an even more positive shift in tourist arrivals, and instead in the last 15 years the lines have been cut, passengers are lost, and therefore the quality of the terrible roads. While modern countries are doing everything they can to modernise railways, we simply do not recognise this potential in terms of tourism and economic terms. This is just another example of how Croatian reality is far from the strategic goals this strategy intends to address. I also need to touch too much centralised in the context of this topic. Croatia is the second most centralised country after Greece in the EU, and we in the IDS have been warning this for years. The unquestionable fact is that when most decisions are made in one place, there is not much room left for decision-making at lower levels as close as possible to the citizens. That is why we have been seeking for years to bring down powers and responsibilities to local and regional units because this is the only correct path to regional empowerment. Local government is closer to the citizens, better aware of their needs and better and more efficient can provide services than can be done to political Zagreb. As a result, a number of modernised countries are paying increased attention to decentralisation or to the transfer of powers to lower levels of decision-making, and Croatia is still doing almost nothing on this issue. Strengthening regional competitiveness is also one of the development directions of this strategy. We definitely support strengthening regional competitiveness but the question is exactly how it is meant to strengthen regional competitiveness while Croatia's regional development is based on a development index that punishes more developed regions and introduces the principle of uranium. Instead of applying the concept of asymmetric decentralisation and allowing more developed parts of Croatia to make further progress and thus pull all of Croatia forward. Today, we have solutions that not only encourage development but also more developed drag back. So these examples that I have now mentioned over the past few minutes are undeniably showing that there is no need to expect salvation from some documents whatever they call them until we change the model of governance and functioning because it is time to finally create a modern and normal country after 30 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29683	The next Club of Representatives will be the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Marko Pavic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29684	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, honourable state secretaries, colleagues and colleagues, it is my pleasure that we finally have in the assembly the first, first national strategy that covers all areas and will be the cornerstone of Croatia's development in the next 10 years. This systematic and strategic step in relation to existing documents, it defines a pyramid structure which will then be respected and where all other strategic documents will have to follow this document. The national development strategy has been stories today about both the font and the number of pages, but when we look at similar strategies, this is a strategy for the development of Ireland, the development strategy of Slovenia in the next 10 years is about the same size and define the vision of the development of their society. Therefore, criticism that we paid a lot of money on the site is absolutely not standing. First of all, these are EU funds, secondly not the World Bank, made by Croatian experts, over 2,000 experts were involved in the creation of the strategy itself, and this can be seen in these yellow folders, which the minister brought in 16 bases is made analytical, which will be the basis for the production of 79 national and local strategic documents per sector. Therefore, if it were not worth something, the EU would not have given us that money and would not have provided with that money to create a strategic framework. The vision of the development of the Republic of Croatia is very clear. In 2030, Croatia is a competitive, innovative and secure country of recognizable identity and culture, a country of preserved resources, quality living conditions and equal opportunities for all. I think we can all come to terms with this vision and exactly investing in people is the central point of the strategy. Investing in people, investing in young people, investing in employees, investing in unemployed, investing in socially excluded, investing in people with disabilities, which I believe is also going to further clarify MP Lukacic, which is a horizontal theme in the strategy. So all kinds of society we want to support. Where are we right now? This strategy answers the question of where we are right now, where we want to come from in 2030, as I mentioned in the vision, it's very clear how we're going to implement it, where we're going to finance it. It's incorrect that those answers don't stand in these 150 cells. As it doesn't seem, we don't know how we're going to manage the process. It is very clear that once a year a document will come to the Assembly that 23 indicators will be monitored and reported in this assembly. I also believe that the prime minister, or government, will be maximum open to proposals and amendments that come from the side of the opposition. We want to be able to bring this document with as many votes and inclusiveness as possible. But also, I've listened a lot to committees, I haven't heard any concrete suggestions in this debate. What is the objective of this is surplus, which is the objective is missing, which is to be added, I have not heard, were only classifications, jumps, misunderstandings of strategic planning that this strategy cannot and will not replace sectoral strategies because exactly 79 sectoral strategic documents will be drawn up. It must be wide, but it shows very clearly where we're going. And where we go by 2030, they clearly say 4 developmental directions and 13 strategic objectives with corresponding priorities that clearly define investment priorities. The first development direction is a sustainable economy and society, the second strengthening crisis resistance. We have seen what crisis-resistantness means and a strong state in these crisis-related pandemics, as regards the earthquakes in Zagreb, the earthquakes in Petrinja, Glina, Sisak, we have seen what EU membership means and we have seen strong support from our partners in the Union. The green digital transition is also one of the directions and is aligned with the direction of the green plan where we already know that 37% of the national recovery and resilience programme and 30% of the new multi-annual financial framework will be for the green plan. Equal regional development, if any government has invested in even regional development, is exactly Plenkovic's government. The project Slavonia 18 billion kuna will have a debate on the interpretation that the SDP has offered with its partners, and we will proudly present the projects here, but we do not ignore other priorities either. I am particularly proud of the Dalmatian Zagora, Lika, Gorski Kotar, Banovina, and we heard today that the minister is even thinking that Banovina is being singled out into a separate project. When we talk about 23 indicators, they clearly define which direction we're going in, very clearly. Today we are at 65% of the EU average per GDP, our target is 75% but not today's order in 2030. The employment rate, when Plenkovic's first government came the employment rate was slightly above 60% in 2016. The third quarter of 2020, despite the crisis, ended with 67.8% promised in the government's 2020 programme. 68%, so the government has realistically planned the first term of 100,000 new jobs. The share of total research and development expenditure 1.11 is currently here and there is the chairman of the Assembly Committee on Science, I don't remember the last time he crossed 1% of GDP, we go to 3% we know why, we go to 3% because we want to provide young people with an opportunity to work, we want to provide them with the opportunity to work, which is best through innovation development, economic development and we know where to finance it from. 25% of cohesion policy goes into research and development. If you ask us well, you just know it now in principle, you don't know concrete projects I say it's not true at all. One of the concrete projects that I have pointed out several times from this pay phone IPSE project that we nominated to be excluded from the state support of 100 million EUR worth of battery park, scientific park for batteries and renewable sources, batteries and electric cars in St. Sunday in Mr. Rimce. We have the development of the gaming industry of Novska, we have the development of IT industry, we know how we're going to do it. There were questions that there was no science, no strategy, so right here is a massive, massive investment in scientific research, right here in this indicator. The next indicator that is very important is the person at risk of poverty and social exclusion. We want to come from 23.3 to less than 15%. We will be in line with the European pillar on social rights, there are our pensioners who are threatened by small pensions, there are unemployed who are excluded from the labour market, there are billions of kunas that will go right into this priority. In line with the above, the HDZ Club will support this strategy, in individual presentations I will look especially at investment, more detailing investments in higher education, research and development, the economy but I see that this strategy knows where it is going, congratulations to Minister Tramišak and the entire Government that they have implemented this document, is comparable to similar documents that European countries have and will allow these 24.2 billion that we go, that we know how to program them in quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29685	Thank you. On behalf of the MP of the Homeland Movement will now speak the respected representative Vesna Vucilović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29686	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Parliament, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We were all kind of eager to expect this strategy, with one look at disappointment, with other enthusiasms, unfortunately I am gathered in this first group because it is nothing controversial in this kind of 4 key development of direction, 13 strategic goals which are not so badly set and which should result in Croatia's vision in 2030, which reads: "Croatia is competitive, innovative, safe country of recognizable identity and culture, land of preserved resources, quality living conditions and equal opportunities for all." As the Prime Minister says, everything is in one sentence, but I have to add one longer sentence which, even after a few readings, hardly anyone can, unless there is a photographic memory, remember and already in the beginning I have to say that the vision should be simple, easy to remember, look at the Slovenian, here the colleague Pavić has shown whether, the strategy of Ireland, Slovenia, Slovenia, has a much simpler vision that speaks again. At the very beginning of the document, however, one conclusion was made that the objective of the strategy was to satisfy yet a certain form towards Brussels with the aim of withdrawing money from European funds, and if this was not a fundamental task of this reading, which was done by a number of experts, thousands of people we've heard for many years and costing more than one million kuna, we heard the amounts, then the result is nevertheless disappointing and I must say that it represents a failure of this government. Namely, even after a few readings, I have indeed made an effort, I cannot perceive this document as a deep, innovative and quality reflection on the future of Croatia, which should encourage a number of stakeholders and, above all, the business community. It is pointed out at the outset that the definition of strategic goals has been influenced by the newly created global crisis caused by the pandemic of the coronary virus, although we have heard from the Prime Minister that he has already won the same virus several times, one private, multiple times officially, I suppose there will be another victory before the local elections. The recycling of concepts such as digitalisation, sustainable development, climate change and similar trends that developed EU members have been working on for a long time is essentially only a basis for withdrawing funds from the Recovery Fund where the percentages for the green plan and for digitisation are strictly defined. Another concept lies in the strategy, and that is already the beginning, and that is self-sufficiency. So, unfortunately, Croatia is a country that imports absolutely everything and little is enough for the needs of its population so if they insisted on that self-sufficiency, they would probably be hungry and naked and barefoot, without cell phones, televisions, cars and much more that there are no imports. Since its founding, the Homeland Movement has been constantly and continuously talking about re-industrialisation, start-up of production, and in the replica, I have tried to show how much space there is only room in the processing industry to achieve a share of GDP that is otherwise developed but not only developed but also transition states but there is no movement, there are no new industries, investments and necessarily necessary reforms. So talking about self-sufficiency without key reforms, which are primarily public administration reform, justice, health and education is kind of pointless. The part relating to growing urbanization was written by someone who either doesn't live in Croatia or lives in a parallel reality, which means "3/4 Europeans live in cities with more than 100,000 inhabitants," I will remind you that in Croatia and Croatia Dubica is the city, although there is no gas station, the nearest is 20 kilometers away. This and such a territorial structure is unsustainable and local sheriffs such as the Mayor of Požega Puljasic or the Mayor of Žinić have had enough information in the media that speaks of their way of working for the general i.e. personally well. Under the applicable law, it is easier to replace some of the world's statesmen than the local leaders in Croatia and if it were political will, we could change it last year by the law that we have in local self-government, which we have changed anyway, and I am confident that they would achieve unity as ruling and opposition. The macroeconomic indicators, essentially, show what we all know and that is that our public debt exploded at an absolute amount and is growing further because the circumstances are what they are. Purchase power is far below the EU average and other transition countries. The strategy says that this will be resolved, I quote, by turning the future and continuing reforms, the challenges turn into potentials that will allow stronger convergence and increase the well-being of Croatia's population. It really sounds nice, but I have to ask which reforms, where are they, why are they hiding out in public and why in the last term when macroeconomic conditions were globally more favourable we only had a reform of national holidays? The strategy further states that funds from European funds will continue to go dominantly into the public sector, which means that if we are to judge Mr Barisic from Velika Gorica and Mr Puljasic from Požega-like companies can still rub their hands because they will not lack work for them. All mentioned in the developmental directions, as well as the goals anyone normal will support, I don't think there are any choirs, they're well placed, and I don't think only malicious people would support the demographic revitalization of our demographically devasted state. The Eurostat projection is that in 2070, Croatia will have only 3 million inhabitants and the number of those who are older than 80. Not that they will double, but they will be far more. Then there's a better position for the family, who wouldn't support it? Self-sufficiency in food or healthy life. I have to say that I'm a little skeptical because there are indicators of success where we have target values for GDP per capita or for example. The time for solving first-degree litigation and commercial cases remains below the EU average. So it's 10 years from now. we will continue to be below the EU average, and the Czech Republic and Slovenia are already on the EU average. It's not stagnation, it's a fall. Everything else is somehow at the level of general principles. A key lack of these concrete measures is that they will be developed further in the implementation plans, other some strategic documents. Now, if we started working on this strategy in 2017, then we finally worked it out, but now in 2021, how much longer will it take for these sectoral policies, then implementation plans, then action plans. As we go into implementation, I'm afraid we'll have to start working on a new strategy for a new period. Perhaps you should consider doing strategies as the EU does by 2050. e.g., and then some medium-term alignment with the multiannual financial framework, i.e. 7-year periods, so as to monitor what the EU has. Any measure and objective that does not have a carrier or a responsible person and a time plan worked out by phases will probably not even be realised. It's my experience in the economy over 20 years. If you don't have a name and a last name and a time plan, then it probably doesn't have anything. And what's missing here, to express myself in a sports dictionary, are passing times, so the points where we're going to be seen whether we're going in the right direction or not. Unfortunately, it's not the only thing missing, but in the following debate, I'll still look back at some elements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29687	The next Club of Representatives is that of HSS and HSU, and time will be shared by respected representatives of Hrelja and Lenart, first respected representative of Hrelja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29688	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The HSS and HSU club today, from the beginning of the day, says that this problem was supposed to take place in two readings, that we were almost 2 years late. with the National Development Strategy, that apart from what is presented to us here, which is one selected content which is made up of selected words in a good packaging, that we are also interested in something, something concrete is when you go into analysis that you have both thematic and strategic goals, you also have where, in terms of where it is going, where and where it wants to come from, but the strategy basically means moving your way to the goal. It's a matter of strategy. Of course, it would be comprehensive if it were to be, and we accept that, if the national plan for certain areas defines how to come, how to reach the goal. What I want to say for what we have today in the debate is that the comprehensiveness of this strategy does not guarantee efficiency, that the strength of the National Development Strategy is not in the scope but in the precisely elaborated implementation plans, precisely that we know what we are able to do to assess ourselves and our opportunities and to advance, not to grumble and that this attempt, by means of the methods of trying and making mistakes, we want to solve the accumulated problems. How did it all start? Well, it started in 2017. And the second question is why we're in such a hurry right now, didn't we have a 2nd year? Time? The National Development Strategy is the basis for budget programming, future budgets and withdrawing funds from and without the EU, so we have unclear priorities for European funds and without it and implementation plans we have difficult negotiations with the European Commission for the period 2021 to '27. Let's remember what the beginning of this National Development Strategy was like. The website opened, experts were invited to participate, low-class schools and children were invited to draw drawings, tell stories like Croatia, as they want to see 2030. Justified to ask them, for in 2030 they will be of age and will be true voters and voters, therefore, for this House. The majority, prevailing, prevailed by the motto that everyone wanted, and the children, our future, wanted a country of happy people. So we had 7 thematic working groups, 5 groups of horizontal policy, governing committee, the executive board, 800 people were found twice in 2018. It should be recalled that at the end of 2017 we also passed the Law on the Strategic Planning and Management System of the Republic of Croatia. So, who was saying that, before sectoral strategies are adopted, a National Development Strategy must be adopted. You see how everything is now connected and how suddenly we're in an emergency and in a hurry. So I repeat again, we're two years late, the meetings of all these working groups have ended up wanting a country with a smile, I still think what children think, that we want a country of happy people, happy people, and a smile will come by itself. I wouldn't talk much about strategic objectives, I'll say just 1 where we want to have a competitive innovative economy, strategic objective 1 and I'd like to know by the national programme, what it's going to be like to develop entrepreneurship and crafts and where and how we're going to do with a large number of parafiscal commitments. What about tourism, how to get innovative and open tourism when it will despite investments and is vulnerable and seasonal. And I'm going to hand over my colleague's word now to pick up where I left off on strategic goals, so I'm asking you to stop time, and I'm going to talk in individual terms about social policies and the pension system.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29689	Thank you. Here, will be continued by the esteemed representative Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29690	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Vice President. Well, here's the strategy, even if it's well written, it's free of charge when you won't follow it, i.e. ruling. Many colleagues have said that this is a list of good wishes. Unfortunately, it's not her, either, it's not that, it's basically a copy paste material with a jagged dictionary where someone wants to give it to each other. The objectives, it says, are a competitive and innovative economy. So I'm asking you what competitiveness we have today? Contests are being set up for companies, so to get a job, you have to have a card, the innovators don't respect or want to be heard and try to promote, so nothing here is going to happen if we continue to act like this. Education and employees. Well, the tragedy is that today we have kids who finish high school, that they can't read and they don't know the multiplication table. We degrade ourselves every year on education, investing less and less in education. Effective and effective judiciary, public administration and management of state assets. Here, someone asked from a colleague here today, Prime Minister Plenkovic, if he will continue to sell state property, I will quote, if we will continue to sell our family silver. Well, we don't have any silver anymore, we don't have any old iron any more, let alone silver because it's all sold out, it's ruined, it's devastated, and it's just the economy of the exhale, and we can only talk about industry in trace. Self-sufficiency in food and bio-economic development. To this end, there is no word at all about livestock production which is an engine of agricultural production. I give myself the right to talk about agriculture here because I think I'm the only one who's produced 300 tons of food this year, and I think I have something to say about agriculture, but also many colleagues who deal in the field alone with agricultural production, and so are our sciences, which has been neglected and cornered as far as agricultural production is concerned, which is why we are here. We haven't solved anything from state agricultural land, although it's been two years since the law on agricultural land was passed that we said was inconclusive. Here we see today he's inconclusive. According to this text, the low productivity of agricultural production associated with the small average size of the agricultural holding and the fragmentation. Well, we've never worked on a merger. You buy out of 5 landowners today to wipe out the particles, the lines, you have to work to elaborate and pay for the miracle of money, so nobody's doing it alive, so we have such tiny land that it's not really that small. We're talking about irrigation. So we're talking about irrigation for 25 years, we haven't moved anywhere. Digital training, digital technologies, farm stories full of digitalization. Well, my dear gentlemen, in agriculture, you need to work. Agriculture needs a peasant who folds his sleeves, has a smudged vanezon, has a crushed tractor and has to work to produce it. We put in front of people today a bunch of administrative obstacles, instead of doing their own production, they have to do whatever forms, papers, licenses, registrations, and not to tell you all the wonders they don't have to worry about being punished. Healthy food, organic production, so we've got a couple hundred acres of nuts in the Slavonic birch that doesn't have one nut plant. It's organic production. We're destroying production. Our system is so set up that our system makes us have a garage, so it makes me have to leave a part of the production area so I don't produce. It's for those who have a few hundred acres that got the country because they were politically similar, and for those of us who don't even have squares of the country for us, it's a punishment because we lose our income. And there could be a lot to talk about here, but unfortunately this strategy will leave letters on paper that cost 32 million kuna, and the situation in Croatia will be worse than it is today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29691	Thank you very much. That's what we're done with the reps' club presentations. We'll take one break by 15 and 5 minutes. I'd like to ask you, please, to get a good wind of that time, and I'd like to draw your attention that a huge number of MPs have come forward and that if things are not going to be a replica at all, it's going to take somewhere between 5 and 6 hours, and if there's going to be a replica, it's probably going to be a few hours longer. There's only so much you can concentrate. Here you go. MEETING IN 14.54 HOURS [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 15.11 HOURS]] The first one will be spoken by a respected representative, Marijana Petir. Here you go. Please, we can just shut up a little bit and sit in the seats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29693	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, MPs and MPs, it is said that smart people learn from other people's mistakes, so it seems to me that this government has well analysed the gaps that occurred in the past when it began to create this national development strategy so that history does not repeat itself. It's normal for the state to have its own development strategy because if we don't know where we're going, then we'll end up where we didn't want to go. In addition to this strategy setting out a clear framework for development for the next 10 years, it also recognises our strategic resources, directs us to use them in the best possible way. And yes, the strategy is also a document that is important for the efficient use of European funds. The EUR 24.5 billion provided in the EU budget for Croatia will be big wind in the back if we do our part of the work at home, which is targeted and strategically set programming. Of this, EUR 5 billion is intended for agriculture, and the rural development programme that was going through severe birth pains 6 years ago is an indicator of what it looks like when you don't know what to do in one of your strategic resistors. The programme was returned to work five times, and when finally with a thick delay, it happened that the then minister took seriously the people's idea that the first kittens were being thrown into the water and that OLAF had work to do for them. As a new Member State, Croatia is on the verge of shame and we can thank the dear God that we have passed without punishment. What was then programmed had to be implemented for the next 6 years, and we have witnessed that the measures chosen were not the happiest solution for Croatian agriculture. It is therefore important that this strategy that we are considering here today is broad enough, but also a sufficiently precise framework for sectoral strategies that should be derived from it. Agriculture productivity is now around 20% of the EU's 15 average, while agricultural land productivity is around 50% compared to the EU 27. Croatia records an external trade deficit in almost all agricultural products other than cereals and olives while the fish trade records surpluses. Although the shifts have made room for improvement it certainly has. In designing measures, we must take into account all aspects of the life cycle of products from sustainable production to sustainable consumption, which would make a major contribution to clearer regulation and labelling of traceability of agricultural and food products. Our citizens want to know what they eat, who produced this agricultural product, in what way and in what conditions. They are interested in how food came from the field to the table and therefore the promotion of short food supply chains, the sale of farm products on the doorstep, green public procurement that positively affect the environment and whose CO2 footprints are not large enough to help a more successful placement of locally produced food, but also to strengthen the resistance of the village in which we have to create conditions for existing residents to stay alive, but also to attract new residents. In particular, we need to take care of even development and solid support for those areas that record poor development and population trends. First of all, I think of the area of Sisak-Moslavina County that died in the Homeland War, unfortunately it was recently in a devastating earthquake. This is why I asked the EU to ensure that, in the context of negotiations on future common agricultural policy, the financial resources for Croatian farmers are secured through the crisis fund for agriculture, and I expect, of course, that together with the government, we will try to have a maximum impact on these funds and arrive. Also, I welcome the government's decision to through the Banovina project, but also through the support of other less developed areas such as Lika, Gorski Kotar and Dalmatinska Zagorje that stronger wind in the back develops these areas. However, I believe that these new circumstances in which we are now in place should set the Banovina project apart in a special project in order to fully design and implement the revitalisation of the whole region and to ensure sufficient financial strong support. So I believe the government will also consider that lead. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29694	Thank you very much. Next, we have replicas of pardon. We have the first replica of the respected representative Katarina Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29695	Good afternoon, there's really a lot to say about this strategy, but you've really surprised me by the statement that this strategy shows that she's been learning from previous mistakes. So I'm really interested in what you're building on, especially if you take into account the area of agriculture where you say it's being produced and there's a huge trade deficit, so that's what happened, otherwise in relation to Yugoslavia, we produce almost twice as much in all food products, which is precisely what the measures and strategies that are being repeated here, which means increasing the share of the private sector, reducing the impact of state and state subsidies, flexibility of the labour market, etc., means a set of neoliberal measures that are repeated in this strategy, and we've been carrying them out for the last 30 years, so I'm curious to know what analyses we've come up with that we can call this strategy a strategy that has learned from mistakes?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29696	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29697	Thank you very much, Commissioner Peovic. Detailed analyses have been made, deep sector analyses, they are available for each sector, and so for agriculture, you can find it on specific pages, and based on these depth analyses, a draft strategy of agriculture is drawn up which is in public debate and I hope that after adoption of this national strategy and it will come in line for adoption. There are a lot of problems, but it is important that the mistakes observed, and especially in that part of the programming, which I specifically looked back on what happened 6 years ago, never again, so that we don't have missed investments, and on the other hand it doesn't invest in what it takes. When we talk about this strategy, you have a special chapter. Developmental direction 3, green and digital transition within which a particular chapter of self-sufficiency in food and development was an economy where these topics were covered by which I spoke.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29698	The next replica of the respected representative, Zarko Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29699	Here's if I can ask a question similar to what I asked the prime minister, and I didn't get an answer. You said in your presentation that, in fact, based on the strategy currently presented here and given to us for reading, that it would be possible to adopt strategies for each sector. I told the Prime Minister and I repeat it again, so when it comes to investing in IT, it's said in one single sentence, it's going to be invested in information communications technology. How can a strategy for IT development or for the IT sector be adopted on the basis of this one sentence? It's really unthinkable to me. On the other hand, IT is actually mentioned in all areas. The answer that this is described in that chapter of digitisation is not the answer because it is talking about digitisation of the economy and it is another area, and the development of the IT sector is a very third area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29700	Honorable representative Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29701	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, colleague Pavic, for this reflection you have made and it is true that on the basis of this strategy, 16 sectoral strategies will be adopted, namely 79 different strategies, except for sectoral and local ones, which are actually a prerequisite for the development of each end, each sector, are also predisposition to make more successful and powerful use of financial resources from European funds. You have well detected that digital transition is mentioned in a special chapter, but that it is going through the whole document and that is correct and it is important, and that is also on the trail of the objectives set by the European Commission for the future multiannual period. Thus, when a multi-annual financial framework is adopted, the objectives of how and how money will be used and spent are set. Green transformation and digitisation are the axles in fact of this new multi-year [[Intruder: Thank you]] the financial framework. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29702	The next replica of the respected representative, Pocrnic Radosevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29703	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, related to the balanced regional development mentioned in the strategy's proposal, it is stated that Lika-Senj County today has 18% or 1/5 inhabitants less than in 2001, which means that it now has 45,000 inhabitants, population density of 8.5 inhabitants per km2. Years of neglect Like and the whole county, insufficient investment in the development of the economy, agriculture, failure to revitalise economic operators as part of post-war reconstruction, poor use of the opportunities created by highway construction has led to today, that basic things such as education, health care, transportation are becoming increasingly difficult today, but also to ensure the need for labour. If we fail to participate actively and stop these negative trends through the opportunities offered by this strategy, here first of all I mean the rapid development of the Dalmatian Zagora, Like, Banovina and Gorski Kotar, I do not believe that we will soon be given a second chance What institutions in Ličko-Senj County [[Intruder: Thank you]] They must be aware of that. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29704	The answer of the esteemed representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29705	Thank you very much. My colleague Pocrnic Radošević, you are absolutely right that we need to be concerned about bad demographic trends, especially in regions such as Like, Gorski Kotar, Dalmatia Zagora and Banovina, and therefore it is good that the government recognises these trends and wants to change them, and through the government programme it has put the regions to pay particular attention to and especially invest in their stronger and more balanced development. As you come from Gospić believes that, that would mean a lot to the town of Gospić, as well as all municipalities, cities and counties are also more strongly involved in communicating around this national strategy in proposing projects that can bring prosperity to Lici, but also in their joint realization in order to keep residents like, but also all of these areas that have been listed in fact in their homes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29706	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Angel Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29707	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, you have touched on EU funds, sustainable growth and even development in your debate, but the key to each success is an educated, trained and motivated man. Now I'd like a little bar patriotic, so we have one strategic goal here, 11 digital transition of society and economy. There is one in Varazdin, I consider the most prestigious university, the Faculty of Informatics that deals with this very thing. Of course, in one such roof strategy, it is not possible to list everything and where it will be built. But up there, it's been five or six years. There are projects to build FOI 2 campus, and this is important for us to achieve this goal so that we can accept as many students as possible and among other students who finish FOI are employed on average for three months, they are highly paid jobs, educated people and what we need today in all segments of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29708	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29709	Thank you, Mr. Uncle. You have actually mentioned the importance of education well because the one who has knowledge has the power and the goal is to keep as many young people in Croatia as possible and to educate them for those activities, to acquire the knowledge we need on the labour market. FOI is certainly one of those colleges, and I've been following your campaigns about building a campus. I think this strategy provides a good enough framework for this realization of campus construction to finally happen, and I think it is extremely important for Varazdin, but it is an important message that we aim more towards maybe smaller cities and even rural areas when we talk about diversifying education by moving higher education institutions and campuses because it gives a new added value to the entire education system and I would like to make it happen with the help of this strategy and the financial resources provided.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29710	The next replica is the respected representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29711	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Petyr. I will refer to that part of your debate in which you spoke about that this strategy is actually a clear framework for the next ten years and, in fact, a document that is of great importance for the use of European funds. We know that we have over 24 billion euros at our disposal, plus those funds that will be allocated after the earthquake affected areas. And in that sense, I share your opinion that this strategy really represents a framework that should be broad enough on one side, and that is, on the other hand, sufficiently precise and clear to be a basis on which sectoral documents will be defined, it will make 16 sectoral documents, and indeed in this sense this document is a basis for sectoral documents and plans on which to withdraw EU funds from certain sectors so that we do not have problems and not to say indignity in the agriculture sector that you have explained and given... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29712	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29713	Thank you, Representative Bedekovic. You're right, this document was actually done with a wide public debate to actually recognize the most important problems, to face what we have as resources and to propose the best possible sustainable way to use these resources. It is important that this is also followed by sectoral strategies that are in the design phase, but it is also important to recognise the local and regional community that can be included with its comments, which may best recognise the needs of its environment and propose these projects for which we will then seek funding from European funds. My impression is somehow the most dominated by the need for better transport connectivity, and perhaps in that sense we should consider establishing priorities for which money would then be channelled.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29714	And the last replica of the respected representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29715	Thank you. Please, one concrete answer. Why is the strategy that says that we will be leaders in the green transformation of the economy not to mention organic agriculture and why the objective is that 25% of the area being processed agriculturally, which is drawn at European Green Plan level to be 25% of these areas under organic farming is not included in our development strategy or do you think that organic agriculture is not important for green transformation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29716	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29717	Thank you, Commissioner Bencic, for this presentation and consideration. As I said, sectoral strategies will be adopted, the agriculture strategy is over, there has been a public debate we discussed on the Committee on Agriculture and gave it as representatives of some of our previous remarks and proposals. There is, of course, ecological agriculture as an important segment of agriculture for which Croatia has a very super-natural predisposition and some counties have gone one step further, so they have already brought their development strategies of organic agriculture, such as Zagreb County, which has drawn up by 2030. put a large part of the agricultural area under ecological agriculture, but it is also a great project, for example, the Vukovar-Srijem County, which has written the project and received approval for European funds for the establishment of a GMO free centre for soybean and other products where this commitment to organic production will be strengthened and according to what is ecologically clean.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29718	Thank you very much. The next debate will be respected representatives of Andrea Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29719	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, dear ministers. I'll focus here primarily on the area of health. This long-awaited document lists the health and health care policy priorities. Anyone would agree with that, reading at first, but when you go to read again and scratch a little bit then you see that there are a number of problems and indiscretions. For example, there is no indication of the dynamics of the implementation of the objectives, measures or implementation programmes. When looking at documents from public consultation, most of the concrete proposals of interested participants are not accepted with the explanation it will be discussed under the National Health Development Plan for the period 2021-2027. So we have to wait for that document so we don't have any clear insights about what's going to happen. For example, there is a transformation of the hospital system through the integration of functional integration and specialisation of institutions, keeping the medical care and medical specialisation available throughout the Croatian territory in this appropriate manner. Now that the mergers and integration of institutions and the possible abolition of individual departments are logically proportional to the broad availability of healthcare, at least the basic frameworks should be given in this Strategy, as well as how these transformations are planned. The same is true for encouraging the even schedule of health workers in the territory of Croatia and keeping them in smaller and rural areas. The fact is that health care personnel are missing, however, it is unclear that the state will stimulate the remaining health care professionals in the Republic of Croatia, i.e. that this distribution will be carried out at all across the Republic of Croatia. The availability of health care and the implementation of healthcare are the basis of the health system. We agree, however, that all of this is just mentioned, not worked out in the National Strategy. The same applies to the principles of sustainability of the health system, fairness in providing care, but also to financing health institutions and achieving optimal outcomes of treatment. There is no clear programme of rehabilitation and health reform, a plan to resolve the accumulated debt in health, under which the criteria will be shared with health institutions. With regard to health financing, Croatia allocates 861 euros per capita, i.e. 7.4% of GDP. In Europe, more than 3 thousand stand out, so 9.2% on average, for the sustainability of the system, it takes a minimum of 9%. The Strategy states that there will be a need to balance between financial opportunities and rising costs associated with new and more advanced treatment methods due to technological and scientific progress, but also to increase the demand for health care due to ageing populations. We all agree, however, the question is how. Very briefly mentioned is the revitalisation of the functions of the Immunological Institute which has been discussed for years, but there is no clear plan of revitalisation, which should have been developed in the Strategy, if nothing else, then at least now given this current pandemic and the need to produce its own vaccines and blood products. A few words about health tourism, of course, is not only a matter of medicine and profession but also a broad framework. The Strategy document contains very little details regarding health tourism. It is only briefly stated that the development of health tourism, health industry, construction of regional congress centres, construction and reconstruction of health centres will be encouraged. The concept of education and education and development of human potential, in order to strengthen the development of health tourism, as well as the years of mentioning the professional orientation of higher-class primary school students and the registration policy of higher education, particularly related to healthcare professionals, is also unclear. Croatia is rich in natural resources that represent a great potential for further development of tourism both at sea and in the continental part throughout the year. However, the strategy of health tourism development is not mentioned more closely in the Strategy, when you look at the search engine, only 5 times is mentioned very briefly. I already spoke and in the replica of 2017, the revenues from health tourism were only 300 million euros. 2 years ago, it was said that we have capacity for a billion euros, at global level income from health tourism is 15-20% of total revenues from tourism. We are still lagging behind in this, we are lagging behind in withdrawing funds from EU funds, and this is not all worked out, either. In the Tourism Development Strategy by 2020, however, we will be the perennial of health tourism of the Republic of Croatia, since we still do not know how this vision of health tourism will be realized, We're still asking ourselves questions. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29720	We have a few replicas. The first one is respected MPs Ban Vlahek. I'm sorry, Big Billic, first of all, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29721	Thank you. Dear colleagues, here we see from the draft Development Strategy that will be invested in the construction and equipment of the missing hospital facilities and support the programme to improve patient safety and quality care. However, it also states that a possible lack of resources in the public hospital sector will be possible to compensate for the involvement of private healthcare providers. Does this announcement wait for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to gradually privatise health care and in itself to collect health services, do you think?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29722	Dear...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29723	Thank you very much for asking. A lot of things should actually be asked about the government or our prime minister, just what you're asking all together and we're worried about, and we're wondering how it's going to all come true together. So we know on the one hand, it's investing in capacities, on the other hand, somewhere you lack capacities, we're talking about the National University Hospital, hospitals are being built in other parts, again, you don't have enough medical staff. What you're saying about private institutions will require some kind of smart plan and program to do. On the one hand, private individuals, of course, invest certain funds in the purchase of certain appliances, as far as this country is going to enable, I don't know. We'll ask the ruling when this national health program arrives, here, I'm very interested in it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29724	Thank you very much. The next replica is respected MPs Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29725	Dear colleagues, the problem is that this strategy was written before the crown, and now it's worth some other rules. You mentioned there was no labour force. I wonder if there is a long-term plan in this Strategy for this obvious problem that has now emerged especially in the time of this crisis? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29726	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29727	Thank you very much for asking. Here, first of all, I have to say that I have asked a few written parliamentary questions to our resolution minister, among other things, about the number of health workers who can fight those most difficult forms of Covid, which are intensifiers. I didn't get, of course, an answer to any questions. I agree with what you're saying that it was written before the pandemic happened, but it's exactly the kind of strategy that needs to predict these situations. So 2030 is far away. The fact is that medical staff is missing, doctors, nurses, how the state will manage to control further spillage, how it will deal with quality employment policy in colleges, stimulate people to stay, that is, lively were seen, but the problems exist, and now, in particular, we agree that during the pandemic it also comes into expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29728	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Strick's.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29729	Dear MPs, we are discussing a national development strategy in such a roof document, it is impossible to count all investments, programmes, plans that are planned in which our areas are beautiful to implement and build. Among other things, the strategy also states that 79 lower levels of programmes and plans will be put in place. Based on this, both the county and the county parliaments will adopt some of their strategy and development plans. You have devoted most of the debate to health care, a concrete example of the practice from the Varazdin County. Never so much investment in health care 620 million kuna has been invested in new buildings, equipment and, of course, specializations and people in this term. I therefore believe that if we are already talking about health care that we need a little more patience, but never so much investment in the health sector is anyone now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29730	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29731	Thank you very much for your comment. I didn't fully understand the question, more perhaps as a comment. We're all waiting for this national health strategy. I was just saying in the introduction that when you look at that paperwork from public consultation where really a series of smart questions were and from the county general hospitals were asking questions, from the local self-government unit and the answer was wait for a national strategy. So this comment I made in my presentation was that at least some concrete hints about how you're going to transform the hospital system, how more justly you're going to distribute the limits. So this is all beautifully written, we can all agree on this series of sentences, but some concrete structural clarifications at least some skeleton unfortunately I haven't been able to see. That's why I'm saying we're waiting for that national health strategy, but it's supposed to put at least basic signs here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29732	And the esteemed representative Lenart has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29733	Thank you. Here's a respected colleague you've mentioned health tourism, I've had opportunities to meet investors in recent times for larger projects in health tourism, but the problem they've encountered is certainly not listed in this strategy, and there's not gonna be any bribes, corruption, racketeering, if you don't agree to that, then the administrative obstacles and all these investors are mostly investors, and we know that investors come to invest whether they're domestic or foreign in order to simply take their capital somewhere else. So we see that many countries that have been far behind us are reaching us especially in this segment of health tourism. The strategy mentions the judiciary and that, but we see what the situation is, and in 10 years, it certainly won't solve the problem of our judiciary. We see that everywhere in the field of corrupt activities are those that simply dissipate our investors and I fear that none of these capacities that we can make and the benefits we have for health tourism in Croatia will be used here because of what I have stated.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29734	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29735	Yes, thank you very much for your observation, I just pointed out that the problem of health tourism is just mentioned so briefly. All of what you're saying and the problem of legal regulation, and the attraction of money, so the frameworks that we've been talking about will actually stimulate the health tourism we've been talking about for years. I mean, I'm a medic, but I've been interested in this subject, so I've been really following it for years. So, it's not all set together. So I totally agree with what you said how to motivate both health and domestic investors that's an open question, and that's really not said.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29736	Thank you very much. The next debate will be respected representatives of Katarina Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29737	Good afternoon, this morning, the prime minister was amazed by the surprise of representatives about the amount of funds invested in this 32 million kuna strategy, but I believe that many share the impression that this strategy was written by a third-year economy student who had to use some modern concepts cleared of any meaning like those in a globalised world that is changing faster and faster, it's important to put a man, wow, everything is full of excellence and intelligence, smart specializations, smart cities, meaning a true orlean speech that twists the true meaning of a word into his opposite. But aside from the impression, this strategy cannot be developed because it is not based on analyses of previous methods of economic moves, strategies and what is happening to lead us to the start of Europe, in order to reach a huge deficit in the 60 billion kuna trade that is increasing every year, and this strategy solves that by the form of auto-suggesties. We will repeat more times that we need to be more productive, more competitive that we need to reach these developed countries, so I guess that will happen, and we will repeat the same sets of measures that we have implemented so far in all possible segments of society. And this is to reduce the country's impact on the economy, increase the share of the private sector, further flexible the labour market. So, in order to make a real strategy, there should have been some analysis that could have been done and the State Statistics Institute would, in particular, be useful cross-sectoral analyses that would show us how much the share of the domestic component in a particular product, how much the final demand for a particular product exists, how much such product and such production would generate employment, added value, and which, for example, the sector has the potential to increase added value and these multiplier effects. That kind of analysis doesn't exist, and this is where everything that's happened before is repeated. So today we've heard that this vision comes from the prime minister in one sentence, so I'm going to quote it. In 2030, we see Croatia as a competitive, innovative and secure country of recognizable identity and culture, land of preserved resources, quality living conditions and equal opportunities for all. But how we will be a competitive country under the conditions of this free competition if we do not achieve competitiveness through the development of sophisticated technological products already so-called. internal devaluation, reducing labour prices, reducing employment, firing, pre-caring and bringing the economy down to service and less demanding activities? How will we be innovative if investment in technological development is insufficient as this strategy also acknowledges? How will this state be safe while the prime minister of any dismissal of workers in the Sisak refinery, in Brodotrogir, settles his shoulders and interprets that it is the decision of a private firm and administration that has so assessed and that these are business policies even though they are companies privatised in corrupt scandals and which, if anything, the owners violate by order of contractual obligation? So how are we going to have that and even say recognizable identity and culture if our culture comes down to an auto-colonial slave perspective that rejects exactly those times in which we have actually reached both the technological and economic leaders of the world? I'm going to do a little depression, someone said today that this strategy is going back in time, it would be great if it went back to the past, then we could come up with some comparisons like that. that our purchasing power today is 27% lower than in '78. Mr. Crescent. etc., etc. or how are we going to achieve quality living conditions in a country where 14% of the working-age population has moved out, how are we going to achieve equal opportunities for everyone in a country of the class deep-divided in which 1.7% of the richest hold 40% of the savings in their hands and 1/3 lives in poverty?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29738	Thank you very much. We have replicas, first respected MPs, Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29739	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Peovic, so you spoke in the introduction about this strategy about things that we have repeated. I read this strategy in a way that it is better to be young and rich than old and poor, that it is concluded or better to be 100 years rich than 7 days poor. And I asked Mr. Plenkovic a question, and somehow I wanted a simple answer, what kind of Croatia 2030 is it? As soon as we're in 2030? Are we a country that will develop tourism and be acceptable to pensioners across Europe? And that's one decision, and that decision can be defended and said why. Are we going to be a country that's going to develop a certain kind of production, a certain kind of industry, a certain kind of education that we're investing in? Maybe you from the strategy read it. So if we don't have shipbuilding, why do we even have a college and high school that deals with shipbuilding? These are the things that this strategy should have been told. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29740	Thank you, the answer of the esteemed representative, Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29741	Well, that's right, so we here keep talking and repeating these popular terms and popular thesis about how we should develop a stem area no one will recognize to you what you've suggested, so let's say that we will be a country that will rely on service activities and low value-added activities, it will never be sure to write in the strategy but will write that we will develop innovative digital technologies etc., in particular encourage a popular stem area but in a shipbuilding that is one of the most sophisticated productions today, economically can be strong, we have just abolished and restricted our production and are almost now shutting down. So, yes, and what you said, it's better to be young than old, so the strategy says, so the pensioners are offered the opportunity to expose themselves to the labour market's death.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29742	The next replica is respected MPs Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29743	Dear colleagues, you said, you mentioned in your presentation of deflation, and I think my opinion is that the biggest problem in this strategy is not to mention that we are in recession and deflation, which, of course, requires a completely different approach.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29744	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29745	Yes, in order to answer that question, we would have to do some kind of analysis that we stopped doing, so here we had a report from the State Statistics Office when I asked why the State Statistics Institute is not doing an analysis and cross-sectoral analysis that would give us an answer to the question that these economic operators have the possibility of multipliering effects, etc., but we are solely based on the EUROSTAT comparative statistics that make things worse, then we don't use it at all when we talk about the unemployment rate. That's very interesting, so we use very selective statistics. Today you will always listen, here there are no colleagues Pavić, here he likes to say, that employment has increased but does not say that we are in Europe, we have one of the lowest employment rates and it says in the strategy, it is interesting, so fair to say so, that only Romania and Italy are below us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29746	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Damir Bakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29747	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here are a few more remarks that relate to previous presentations. First one more time, educational. Indicators indicate the significant lag behind our students in the PISA study in the reading literacy category, which is what the prime minister was talking about today and aimed at catching connections with OECD countries. At the same time, the rank of our students in natural and mathematical literacy has been silenced, and in these two categories our results are dramatically lower than the results in reading literacy. Unfortunately, the government has decided to move this unpleasant fact under the carpet. This devastating score in science and mathematics doesn't even mention the document, and then, accordingly, it probably raises its hands from the consolidation of education in science and mathematics, and it should be said, one of the four directions, of the four strategic directions, be careful now, green and digital transformation, green and digital transformation without mathematics and natural science in the document. In doing so, I cannot not mention that Slovenia, or Slovenia, is students in all these 3 categories, are not below but significantly above the average of the US countries, and until 3 decades ago we were part of the same educational space. I think that says enough about how we have treated education for all these years, and unfortunately, the strategy does not recognise the need for vigorous prioritization of education as a national strategic interest. As far as number 4 is concerned, it is absolutely necessary to democratisation relations at local levels to demonstrate the legal provisions of 2017, what is popularly referred to as the lex sheriff. In this context, it is necessary to draw out an improvement in the legislative framework. Health care. The strategy recognises 2020. as a year of pandemic, yet insufficiently recognizes the signs of time. There is only one phrase on the public health system in the entire document on page 79. We find it unacceptable to say more in the document, however not much more, but more is said in the document about market health clusters and health tourism than public health. The primary health care is only being declared, and the point is that after years of neglect, she needs a strategic recovery plan. The strategy also overlooks that, that health standards in islands and remote areas cannot be solved only by telemedicine, telemedicine is a tool, the problem will be solved by people, and about people in health, in general, medical staff is under-thinking. And finally, when we talk about health care in the strategy, there's no mention of mental health. Perhaps it is in some way symbolic to talk about mental health when I talk about strategy, and therefore about mental health already for the beginning of a change in mental health perception is really necessary to take organized and, and planned care. And finally, in this series of unrelated, unrelated remarks, I would say this, it's a shame that the strategy is almost, the sport is almost exclusively seen through the prism of top sports, and not once in the text is talked about the need to discover sports talents, to cultivate sports talents, to release sports talents. Sports, however, is much bigger and much bigger, sport for all, especially recreational, especially for young people, especially at school, sport at school is a truly strategic priority, much more than worrying about top sports. Unfortunately, even this strategy doesn't recognize, at least not enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29748	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, the first respected representative, Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29749	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, if I understand correctly, you said the term “telemedicine is out, ” so I would ask you to explain it to us. I immediately refer to what my colleague asked me in the replica, not at all intended or covered at this time of the pandemic and the situation where you have no other choice but to serve these aids of a type of telemedicine, so since the strategy is the next 10 years, the question that is still waiting for us, here is a clear comment on telemedicine because I think that in areas where there are not enough experts, and the question that the ruling prepares us with regard to all these possible abolitions, I'm afraid we'll have to use telemedicine for some areas of health. Here's your comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29750	Dear Representative Bakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29751	Yes, thank you. Thank you. So, I'm afraid it's a more serious misunderstanding. I never said that telemedicine was out, I said something else entirely. I said that telemedicine itself will not solve the problem of medicine on islands and medicine in isolated areas, the problem will solve people, of course with telemedicine.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29752	And the replica has a respected representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29753	Thank you very much. I have decided on a replica at the end of your presentation where you mentioned sports, so the importance of sports in the process of raising children or topics from the earliest age. Now look what's going on, so now we have the following, kids go to school from 1st to 4th grade, and those final classes, from 5th to 8th don't go, not only do they not go to school but they have classes online, they don't even have the opportunity to do sports, because the decision that the headquarters made about the crown is that there's no sport or outdoors, there's no practice or individual sport, we're going to see it really as a problem, I'm sure it's going to be a generation problem that we're going to see next. So, in order to have a top-notch sport, you have to have a base, and the base happens in schools, and instead of encouraging it and that this, so I'm nothing, I have absolutely nothing against top-notch sports, which is even more, but the importance of the base is actually neglected. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29754	Dear Representative Bakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29755	Thank you very much and thank you for this replica, so I absolutely agree with you. I also believe that the question of sports activities has not been sufficiently thought out and thought out in the measures and recommendations that the headquarters has been making all this time. I think there was room for some outdoor sports activities to be maintained or continued and, of course, we agree on that. But once again, I would point out here now using the opportunity now that I'm answering this to you, so once again, I would point out, for my concept, the crucial crucial crucial importance of sports to school. And I think it's actually a true, truly strategic priority to rehabilitate, to reconfirm the system of school sports competitions, to truly introduce a sport in schools that we'll all be looking forward to together.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29756	Thank you very much. The next debate will be respected representatives of Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29757	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues here I will highlight a few facts about this national development strategy. In fact, all day long, it has been mantra about how this strategy has paid 33 million kuna, the fact that it is, but are very important sources from which it has been paid, which is 85% of EU funds and 15% of the national components. It is also the creation of this strategy from 2017 and what is very important is that for the first time in this form and it is made and it represents a very good document among other things and that these funds that we have available as members of the EU from 2021 to 2027, and also those from the new generation make the most of it. When we look at the methodology used to create this document, then we must say that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has formed a governing committee, which consists of representatives of both the Croatian Parliament, the Office of the Prime Minister, the Office of the President of the Republic, then offices from the Association of Cities, the Countys, associations of municipalities, HUP, economic chambers, crafts chambers, CNB and trade unions, and the Academy of Science and Arts. What does that mean? To try to create and get as high-quality templates as possible to guide the future development of our country. When we talk about what this has created it as such gives basic definitions and developmental directions in which we want Croatia to develop in 13 strategic objectives. If you have made a little bit of a breakthrough in the strategy itself, which is an analytical basis, which the World Bank has done, then you will have a lot of documents, these 16 documents that have been made and can be found on the site of precisely developing national strategies and these documents, starting with agriculture, fisheries and production, education, energy sector, environment, health, justice, labour markets, etc., so all of us, all the areas that we care about and about which each of us needs to say something. It would be me, and I pointed out that, and in the replica itself, it is very important to verify and monitor the performance indicators set out in this national development strategy. So, as we say, we want Croatia in the index, by the index of global competitiveness instead of now 63 places to take 45 seats or better means that in all those sectoral strategies that we do we have to make that happen. Also if we want to raise reading literacy, then that means we have to make efforts, steps in science and education. Likewise, for example. The productivity of agricultural work, if the starting value is EUR 6,707 and the target value is EUR 10,000 or if the EU average is 20,120, means that we have to think very well through all sectoral policies how it is achieved. And we will be able to track and measure it every year in this Croatian Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29758	Thank you for having a few replicas. She is the first respected representative of Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29759	Here you have said that we paid by EU funds, but it should be reminded that it is not free of charge, from 2013 to 2019. Croatia has paid nearly 20 billion kuna in the European budget. Secondly, you say the analytical bases of 16 documents from agriculture to education, labour markets, etc., so we don't have to pay the World Bank to know what they think about agriculture, the abolition of all state subsidies I'll tell you in short or what they think about the labour market flexibility and pre-caring work. And that Croatia is, therefore, an excellent result that in global competitiveness for one 45th place or better, so I will tell you that Macedonia is on the Doing Business ranking somewhere among the best, and in that country, one half of the population is not warmed up and there is high unemployment. So they are not indicators that can tell us that they will live in Croatia 2030.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29760	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29761	Well, I think what's written here must be a much better indicator than the one you're offering. If RH's last data show it had 37 billion kuna, 37.6 billion kuna is in plus, so compared to what we've paid, that means we've withdrawn a lot more funds than we've invested. If we also say that we have 24 billion euros available in this period ahead of us, then this is a very big advantage over those who do not have it. And when we talk about whether it is a quality background, so the World Bank and what the experts who are inside are, among other things, Croatian experts and scientists. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29762	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Mažura.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29763	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Perić, therefore, we heard today that the National Development Strategy is a roof document, the hierarchical highest that has a vision and development of the Republic of Croatia over the next 10 years. It contains development priorities, however, operational policies are implemented through sectoral policy acts, i.e. 79 and what we could hear today when some ask about assisted areas or concerns, then you too know very well that in your electoral unit, let's say through the Law on Supported Areas and Housing Care, only in the past term of government we have taken care of thousands of families who have received both building materials and apartments and buildings and in Knin, Drniš, Obrovac, Gravac, and in 2016 was that no family was taken care of in previous governments.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29764	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29765	That's right, thank you, Comrade Mažur. So we also have this example in my Zadar area, that is, in the 9th constituency, so we can track it in Licko-Senj County where it is very much such measures, where it has been possible for young families to be stimulated, whether they have been cashed, if they had a project and if they owned land, many young people could have built houses there, founded families and others right on their territory, in their territory. And let's not say how much the house and the apartment is so renovated, and that's how we actually helped indirectly exactly what we're always talking about, which is that all parts of Croatia are developing evenly and that demographic restoration is better.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29766	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29767	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues, before entering politics, while I was in the diplomatic service, for a while I worked on our NATO mission, and if that organization knows anything, it was strategic planning and they were doing always before the strategic defence review, then the operational data was put into the long-term development plan of the armed forces, so now our defence sector is working. Why am I bringing this up? Because I keep hearing criticism that this strategy lacks operational data, some exact terms, deadlines, holders of that work, and we know that it should be not in the document of strategic nature but in the operational plans. So what's the strategy to do if we're going to mix the strategic level and the operational level?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29768	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29769	Thank you, fellow Stier. So I think many of our colleagues don't understand the methodology actually build documents. Because when a strategic document is adopted, it must have certain guidelines, and everything else is being developed in the operational and then all the data and needs that come from below, so from the units of local self-government, cities, municipalities, then it can either from business or any or agriculture, then it is actually being built into these operational programs that can then be detected precisely, as we have here, the case with kindergartens, with fire departments, etc., so they create what people really need and what we all need.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29770	The next replica is the esteemed MPs Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29771	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Perić, you spoke about the comprehensiveness of this Strategy, which is really wide-ranging and recognised all those important segments in which it is necessary to invest. I am particularly pleased that this Strategy is being touched in one large part and emigrated Croats who have over 3 million according to some estimates. We know that they have built their lives and business and social environments in some other countries. As far as I see it, here through the Strategy is seriously considering how they, but also their descendants, re-invited to Croatia, how to invite them and include them to return here and to their business activities through, of course, encouraging the state to run here. So I'm curious here, what is your position on such an approach, do you think it can help, not only better business environment and job creation, but also a better demographic picture of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29772	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29773	Thank you very much. Yeah, it's one of the actual segments of the Strategy itself. As I came from a region where in the '50s and '60s there was just as much emigration from my family, half of my closest aunts and uncles went outside, and half of them stayed in Croatia, so there were then large families with 6, 7, 8 children. Therefore, however, the family bond with Eve remains now second and third generations in that evicted Croatia. And here it is recently, for example. My cousin, who was born in Venezuela, asked for papers or citizenship of the Republic of Croatia. It is therefore very important that this connection continues to be promoted and encouraged in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29774	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative, Begonja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29775	I thank my esteemed colleagues, from the appearance of a part of the opposition MPs, including clubs, for reading that this document is the result of work at the very least by a student of the 3rd or 4th years. study or perhaps civil servants in a single number. I'm interested in telling us who had the opportunity or who was all involved in creating this draft National Development Strategy, and was there any possibility that the public might be involved in drawing up this draft?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29776	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29777	Thank you very much. Here I told you at first as soon as possible as it was published when any of us could come forward and make their proposals and comments. Very broad in the beginning the public was involved, and this is precisely through this board of directors where through it all relevant institutions that can contribute in any way from a particular segment of society and could and have made their proposals and thus implemented all of this in this document. Thus, no one did this as a seminar work but it is evident that every sentence and every program is actually very thoughtful.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29778	The next replica of the respected representative, Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29779	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you listed in your presentation all the stakeholders who participated in the development of the strategy. You have also mentioned all the documents that have been made as analytical bases and you have also mentioned the time duration of making this very important document, since 2017, and these are all arguments that speak of one quality strategic roof document, not one mediocre seminar paper. Among other things, the purpose of this document is not volume and width, but a clear and comprehensive document that will be the basis for the creation of sectoral documents at a lower hierarchy level. I would compare it to two words "strategic" and "tactics". So, this is a roof strategic document with all its reasonable directions, goals, priorities, and... documents will actually be tactical documents to indicate [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] in a way [[Intruder: Thank you]] how to reach these goals. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29780	The answer of the respected representative Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29781	Thank you very much. Yes, just as you said, that is, it does not make the document and the quality of the document a number of pages, but what it was intended to achieve, whether the right directions and the real problems were identified or set the right criteria and goals for all of this to be done. It's also very important on the basis that, on the basis of which the base is, all of this is brought and written, and then that's what, then we can measure all of what we said and control in fact everything we do further and the results that we do or don't realize, and then we can actually draw the right conclusions from that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29782	Mr. Lenart's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29783	Thank you, dear Vice President. Comrade Peric, here's what you've given us the opposition MPs to mantra, that we don't understand the subject we're talking about, especially what's written here in this strategy, but I think you're the champion of the mantra and the misunderstanding of what you've been talking about because you've been reading what someone's written to you. That's proof to you, listen to your debate after you've said in the agriculture section that you're talking about one amount that it increases by some percentage to another amount, you don't talk about what the amount refers to, and then you mention another amount that is increasing and you don't say what it refers to, it proves to you that the mantrates are essentially and that you don't understand what you're talking about at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29784	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29785	Well, colleague Lenart, we can fight like this and talk about it, and it's yours to criticize and say that something's wrong, and we say that what's done is right. That when I talked about some indicators of productivity in agriculture, then it was EUR on the annual work unit. So we can now read what that meant, but there are target values, there are starting values and what we want to achieve. Also if we want to change the share, for example. or the rate of recycling of municipal waste is now 25.3%, the target value in 2030 is 55, and the EU average is 47.4. We can talk about it in a way that we can talk about, and we can talk about who understands better or doesn't understand who did what and who did what.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29786	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29787	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear counterpart Peric, the very good achievement Croatia has achieved in the average standard of living is now at 66% in the EU. You have just said that the National Development Strategy document says that we have set the goal of reaching 75% of the European average on living standards and economic growth. I'm interested in what you think, how can the policies in the document promote this very process in order to achieve that 75% over 10 years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29788	Thank you, too, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29789	I didn't hear what you meant by 75%. Standard? [[Intruder: 75% of the standard of living.]] So this can be observed through several criteria, whether that is if we go through several criteria, then we can talk about whether, what is the employment rate, which is the unemployment rate, which is, how much is GDP per capita, etc. [[/Intruder: Yes. And economic growth in 10 years.]] Therefore, all these are measurable sizes and we can also check all these data annually in our National Statistics Office, so that when they say we're just refering to Eurostat, it's not true. We are part of this European society that must have valid criteria. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29790	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, no more replicas, thank you. Now it's Mr Davorko Vidovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29791	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Croatia has been since the 1990s. Until today, I read it somewhere, someone calculated, somewhere published about 170, 180 strategic documents. So it's about documents that regulate an area, some sector, but this is actually pressed perhaps even for some external reasons, for the first time, to bring one of these kind of National Development Strategy, and I would unfortunately have to retrain it immediately as a missing opportunity strategy. I don't think and I don't belong among those who think that this is a document that has, that could fool a high school student, I don't think there are things in there that don't work. I don't think the goals are set, that they're not well set. In fact, what's really wrong with the whole story? In the whole story, it is not good that what would actually be the fundamental development goal of this country should be, in no way, accepted, except perhaps when it comes to the mission of that last part of that sentence that speaks the country of equal chances. The social capital of Croatia is at the lowest possible level looking at Europe. No one trusts anyone in this country. For years, this House has been evaluated by a score of 2, the Government's score of 2.5, the president of the state, etc. The level of trust among people is at the lowest possible level, so if we did not establish a system that would raise that trust, which is the basis for everything that the Strategy talks about and realized, we would not bring about a good strategy. In spite of what some rightly warned about, the way it was brought about was that it was at first truly ambitious in terms of consulting as many people, institutions, etc., etc., and then suddenly broke and stopped. 17 such meetings were held and then interrupted and not further what was happening and then even interested. I guess I'm the only one from this booth that I've noticed, seriously invited to a national consensus, agreeing on things that consent is both necessary and necessary. If, I say, twice in the history of modern Croatia we have decided something consensually and won success, I mean the creation of a state, the defence of a state, I mean this integration, then it's the last time we want to agree on what kind of country we want to live in. In 2030, we can reach out to not know what level of GDP, we can have 100,000 dollars like Singapore, I would never want to live in Singapore. If we don't have a country and we don't have a society where fundamental justice, the feeling that I can achieve and realize all of my potential, that I can provide a future for my family and be happy in that country. If I were to write a mission, I would very simplistic and vulgarly write it, Croatia equals Denmark. The happiest people live in Denmark, not because they are the richest, they have half the GDP of Luxembourg or Singapore that I have talked about, but because they live in organised societies, and we do not, the way we conduct this debate shows that we have power, a ruling team that thinks it's a consensus to invite and ask for these and them involved, but not political partners or people on the political scene. Without a political consensus, nothing can be done. We're getting what we have now. We have a legitimate resistance. If only there was gold in this strategy, that would have happened. The way is not good. If the government called, it wouldn't mean that she was weak, if she didn't know what she was asking the opposition, no, that would be a sign of her maturity, her strength and evidence that she understood the actual meaning of a document like this that connects her and all the governments that will appear for years behind it, there might not be either Plenkovic or HDZ or SDP, and I don't know who.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29792	Thank you. It's a quick pass of time. You have two replicas, Mrs Udovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29793	Here's a thank you. You said that this strategy should be adopted by consensus whether we can say that it will be passed by consensus or whether public consultation where we have 181 involved stakeholders is something that can put us on that path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29794	Thank you very much. So in answer to us in some way I might have answered that question. [[Intruder: Answer.]] The opportunity to bring consensus has been missed. The opportunity existed, the opposition could be included, so we no longer live in a single-party system. '86, '87. For years, the party held a debate about whether, how to democratisation society, so someone said listen first, first step to introduce a multi-party plural political system and we'll make democracy. So there's no passion here, so to speak of using the position, now you're the position, the next term may be in opposition. These are the kind of documents that have been missed. I do not expect a consensus so today this side has been quite clear that the consensus will not be that this document will be rejected.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29795	Mrs. Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29796	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I fully agree with you on important matters for the Croatian people and the state, and I assume that there are these points that we can agree on and should not have a struggle. The truth works to say that 186 public events were organised in this strategy and more than 2300 participants participated and the remarks were made by 181 organisations, individuals, associations and all those involved through public consultation so that I could not agree in that part that it was not a broad public debate and that no broad spectrum of people was involved. But I would go back to it when you talk about unity because we need unity and about things that happen after the earthquake in Sisak-Moslavina County, and I would like to say that if you can in any way influence your young colleagues who are crying well about the cost of taxpayers and credit themselves with which they have no connection. to yet turn their eyes toward the victims and to share as we are here in the assembly [[Intruder: Thank you.]] try to have a dialogue and try to help people in the field without politicizing. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29797	Mr. Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29798	Here's me for this last piece of my colleague you said because that's how you deny what you said ahead. I say again cheaply, cheaply pick political points on some things is rude. We don't have a basic level of political culture and elemental responsibility, that's a big problem. The way we talk in society, even in this House, shows it. I don't care if it's the opposition or whether it's the ruling party. I would like to say that without mutual respect, listening, reasoned debate, and the prior Satanization of anyone, the demeaning, the understatement I see by the ruling position, the media reported Milanovic swept the floor with the MP, Plenkovic swept the floor with a representative. Instead of being appalled at the behavior of people who are clearly using themselves in politics We're picking it up on some piedestal. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29799	Thank you very much. No more replicas. Now it's Mr. Domagogy's story. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29800	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, dear colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives, the national development strategy should tell us about what Croatia should be, but also how to become one of them. This 150-page strategy is truly abstract, you would say a list of nice wishes with few concrete proposals. Surely one of the most important issues that I think is not sufficiently explained is the matter of tax and other giving to the state. Taxes and impositions burden the economy, not only financially but create a commitment from the time perspective. The more parafiscal burdens this means that they too are based on a large number of regulations to be studied in this way, we must say that parafiscal imposes amount to more than 9 billion kuna in Croatia. 5.5 billion kuna burdened by business entities and 3.5 billion kuna burdened by Croatian citizens. So when we talk about tax discharge, we don't just think about reforms that would leave more money to citizens and businesses, but we also talk about a time-delivery to free citizens and businesses from worrying that all their obligations are to pay. The priority should indeed be to dissipate citizens and businesses in the future if we want a more successful economy. Employment is one of the main topics in every society. The bigger jobs it is, the more stable the situation in society. In the event of high unemployment, this also has consequences for the economy, damage to the lives of citizens and families. Citizens are aware that if they run out of work, and unemployment is high that they will very hard to find a new job, they are then saving. That's how he thinks about a good part of the country's citizens. The economy is functioning worse, unemployment is increasing further and the economy is suffering further damage. The question is, how can the state help? How to ensure full employment? Our unemployment in Croatia has been high for decades since the 1990s until recently. Unemployment in Croatia has decreased truth in recent years but in the worst possible way. By moving hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens out of the country. The national strategy mentions requalification but the current authorities in Croatia have not taken advantage of how much requalification could have been made as a way of reducing unemployment and increasing the number of employment in deficits. Especially if we know that the labour market lacks workers in professions, so we have a labour deficit in certain interests, which burdens the Croatian economy. So other than tax discharge, overqualification for deficits is a way to strengthen the Croatian economy. We also need to pay special attention to requalification. Unfortunately, the National Development Strategy does not discuss the flexibility of working time. As technology progresses, more goods are being produced and the number of employees is being reduced. For example, people used to produce far less in agriculture. However, there were a large majority of employees in the sector. Today, a small number of modern technology employees create more good than ever before. The danger is that there will be a reduction in the number of jobs throughout the economy as a result of the development of technology and productivity growth. I must stress that the development of technology and productivity growth itself is a positive thing. But then we have a question about how to resolve potential unemployment. It should consider alternatives, and I think that the National Development Strategy should also be dedicated to them, so alternatives such as seven hours of working time or other forms of work-time reductions. Of course, this does not apply to those sectors where employees are lacking. But in sectors where unemployment is higher or in those regions where unemployment is higher, we should also consider reducing working hours per employee rather than reducing taxes. That way the wages would stay the same. Citizens, employees would do something shorter, but the number of employees would be higher. In this way, ensuring full employment would also lead to the preservation of citizens' standards as well as stability for society. So let us consider reducing working time as a way to achieve full employment and reduce unemployment in the future. If we had thought about it a few decades ago, we could have reduced unemployment, reduced unemployment, and prevented so many people from moving out of our country.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29801	Stay. You have replicas. The first is Mrs. Romana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29802	Thank you, Vice President. Do you think that the National Strategy, the Development Strategy, is a good basis for broad innovation, modernisation in Croatian society?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29803	Answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29804	I think the strategy was too general. It's not enough concrete stuff, I've already mentioned it today. I've set it up, or I've replicated the prime minister. I gave him my opinion. Each page of the Strategy cost more than 200 thousand kuna and would be logical at least on that site that costs more than 200 thousand kuna if we had at least one specific thing. But no. I think it's nice to mention everything about how it's supposed to be, but it's nice wishes. There should have been more concrete solutions to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29805	Mrs. Boska Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29806	My dear colleague, Proverbs, you mentioned working hours. I'm interested in your opinion that shortening working time can affect and affect the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29807	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29808	Well, I think that's a good solution. It's already been introduced in some countries. I think it's a good solution for countries when they have high unemployment. Unfortunately, in Croatia, unemployment has decreased in a way that unfortunately many of our citizens have left the country. So you should think about it. Any country where unemployment is high, even if in the future in Croatia, for some reason, there will be a drastic increase in the number of unemployed, we need to consider reduction. That way we can allow people to work. This must be accompanied by tax discharge in order to keep the salaries the same and thus we can open jobs to keep people in Croatia and give people safety.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29809	And the third and last replica, Mr. Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29810	Thank you, Vice President. I have to correct you in one part where you said that a small number of farm employees with new technology creates more good than ever. We are in all productions failed. We're out of milk. 50% we don't produce. The only thing that works for us is some warfare, but not because of our strategies, policies, government or ministry, but because the Italians buy war cultures and pay decently, so the warfare works. Unfortunately, new technologies are only for some who are closer to the authorities, so they can come up with either better loans, or grants or funds. Unfortunately, not everyone can make it to the funds. And it is tragic that we in Croatia i.e. The ruling talks about the amounts we pulled through the funds, and they don't want to talk about the percentages. Because when you talk about percentages, then you see that we're below 40% in withdrawing funds from pre-accession funds. That sounds ugly, and it's... Before, and here is the Minister of Climate. [[You don't understand.]] We're not talking about the contracts, we're talking about the ones we pulled.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29811	Thank you. Mr. Tale's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29812	Yeah, I agree with some of the things you said. When I was talking about technology development, I spoke globally. So globally and for decades through development. As productivity increases, it takes a smaller share of the workforce to do some work to get products. This is positive because society is creating an incredible new wealth that society uses for people. But we must always keep an eye on that part so that we do not get to the growth of unemployment, of course, it hurts the individual. That hurts the family. This can lead as we have seen in Croatia to eviction. But such a tightening of social relations can also be politically harmful and lead to the growth of political extremes, which is also not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29813	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mrs. Anka's turn, Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29814	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister with an associate. So we have a strategy so eager a document we wanted, we talked about it, on several occasions we warned and should not at any time be surprised that we now have and a certain kind of I would say indifference when I see these documents. There's no dilemma. It's a roof document. Behind that will go a number of other strategies, but it is a very interesting way to define it. Because from this document we read some introductory things about it. I'm not doing any more strategy here, I'm going to be dealing with three topics and I'm going to say something. The first is the judiciary, public administration and property management. We do not see at all what and how it intends to reform the judiciary and the public administration, although the concept of reform has become a mess and is very difficult to talk about. So far, let's be honest, there hasn't been anything brutal in these two sectors, and I'm afraid that in these 10 years, there will be no miracles in the way they're meant for this strategy. This strategy, of course, also lists the activation of state assets while reducing portfolios. E, and now state-owned there are 1,100 companies that generated 11% of the value added and employed 7% of the total employees and we have about a million real estate units, including apartments, buildings, business premises, abandoned military buildings and land. Of course, putting into function such property is an opportunity for faster growth in the future, but somehow it seems to me that we could do so and the first condition should be that we finally have and finally establish the correct record of state property. I am as a representative or general as a citizen of the Republic of Croatia who cares that the Republic of Croatia has a strategy that will respond to where we are going and where we will be making observations in 2030. I got an answer that was partially accepted, and then the answer, let's say, when it comes to your state property records, it's only that it's not, and we've already been there a few times, if I were to ask that, it's just that it's not, and then there's about 2030, maybe the same thing is just about to happen. The second topic and that list of beautiful desires is demographic revitalization and a better position of the family with one addition here, I'm very hard to use hard words, but this is really out of my mind. The strategy aims to resolve the social and economic consequences of reducing and aging the population by increasing fertility in 10 years. It's just that tomorrow all the children that the authors imagined should be born in 2030 will be nine years old. What we should avoid in this strategy is really being unrealistic, not having missed goals, but it would be very good if we had immigration policy. There's a law recently passed that says there's going to be immigration policy. It would be good if this strategy said that we have and that we finally said something about it. And now what this strategy should be based on. They're young people, they're some new ideas, they're some new forces, they're the ones that are working right now, and they have to be ready for some new occupations. So, to this day, technology has replaced workers in a bunch of jobs. Automation is believed to have led to the creation of more than 23 million new jobs in the EU from 1996 to 2016. It can also be estimated that in the future, jobs will disappear due to technological progress, as well as the creation of new professions. New technologies allow faster and more reliable employment processes, but what is your condition? It's the condition of lifelong education. What's your condition? It is up to people to requalify themselves, to educate themselves for new occupations during their life’s journey or work trip. Of the 27 EU countries, Croatia sees miracles again in the last place. It was something that the Strategy would expect to be and based on it is doing some new strategy, but unfortunately not in this Strategy. There isn't one this time. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29815	Time. You don't have a replica, do you? Okay. Mr. Michel Jaksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29816	Thank you, esteemed chairman, respected representatives of the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs, good afternoon, nice greeting to everyone. Both myself and us here are often full of the mouths of consensus, and today, several times it has been pushed through to bring this National Development Strategy to a consensus, but we also discussed when it was on the subject of the Law on the Reconstruction of the City of Zagreb and other earthquakes of affected areas, we found a consensus, even said those things that were objected to in the debates will be looked after in the very implementation of the law. It's been almost a year since the earthquake, and they should be happy now because someone said they would be very sad if in 3 months after that year the reconstruction of Zagreb was not initiated and the earthquake affected areas. When we add it up and subtract it, despite the fact that the National Development Strategy is a very important document, perhaps even better not to ask for this consensus because it will still not bring any acceleration and any implementation of everything that we want Croatia to become by 2030. When it first came before us, I said on one show that it seems like a set of good wishes to me and that I hope for all of us, because we all love this country equally, that we will succeed in all these beautiful desires. Then we are told that we will get clear bases, clear analyses, clear documents that will be needed for discussion, so that we can all try this National Development Strategy together to make it even better. Until today, we've got nothing. Several calming remarks in the strategy itself that it was about Benchmarking that there were some comparisons, that there were some analyses, that there were a bunch of meetings with a bunch of people, but at the end of the exact figures where it started and why it started from some starting point, the only thing we know is some of the conjectures that people participated in and that cost 32 million kuna. It remains to hang in the air something really nice, that our young people drew something about this Strategy, it is nice to create social optimism, it is mentioned institutions that allegedly worked on a strategy like the HGK itself, which is indeed a representative and moral institution, which is worthy of a degree from Banja Luka to beautiful paintings from Paris and London hidden in a basement, and to the HUP which, unfortunately, has become a subject where we can ask ourselves, I hope that it will not come again whether they are a representative body and who are all presented and represented to many other institutions that we cannot see transparently that they participated in the development of the National Development Strategy. Now, if we know how many bad numbers we have not in the back of 5 years, so it doesn't turn out to be with someone now, that the economy has been really stagnating us for 30 to 40 years, that we have demographic problems that demographics say start in the 1970s, that we have a well-determined public administration, then we would expect from this strategy that will lead us to 2030, that they will give answers to these questions, that we will finally give answers when we introduce a progressive tax policy, stop riding so much on their taxes and start taxing capital and wealth, especially when we know how much of this suspicious capital that goes on to this country. We have a new corruption affair every day. We would answer when we reform public, local and regional self-government and how much we want municipalities, cities and counties. We'd like to answer the question of what we're going to do with this state property, and not if it's the same thing that's being dragged into the National Development Strategy, it's going to sell so much and so much. Like me as a Koprivnicar. Does that mean you're going to sell Podravka? There's no answer to that. There are no deadlines for doing something, but the authority will be mentioned to be digitization, there will be some transformation, but don't ask what, when and where. We should also answer the question of what to do with our education system, because pedagogical standards also did not change Malta not from the time of the former Yugoslavia and today the only thing we have is the chronic dissatisfaction of teachers, teachers, teachers, teachers with their terms and conditions of work and the chronic dissatisfaction of the economy, and indirectly also parents and minors because everyone knows that our educational programmes no longer follow the needs of the economy not today Croatia but also the European Union. And what I wanted to say was only for the end of demographics. It might be nice if we had a clear assessment of what was demographically happening, how many people had moved out, how many people had moved in and how and what we wanted to do with demographic numbers at all. Apparently, due to the local election period, it was someone's answer to get it under the carpet a little bit more. Thank you. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29817	Thank you very much. You have one replica of Mr. Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29818	Your Honor... and Mr.... Two replicas. [[You don't understand.]] Here you go. You mentioned that the ruling speeches about a large number of participants involved in the debate. You come from a big city that's been developed. You come from a county where agricultural production, livestock farming, was developed. On the other hand, you have a developed food industry in your city. Do you have any idea how many farmers and businessmen in your county or your town have spoken and have you personally been contacted about this strategy?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29819	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29820	There's no way of knowing personally that someone in particular has been spoken to by farmers. They probably included some HGK representatives we have in our county, but since leadership is chosen by us by the same key as the national one, it may have been better if they hadn't spoken. But what I can say is not now with the intention of defending and dimensional the role of Podravka, and I am therefore sorry that there is no colleague Petir here who said that because of the three years of Milanovic's government, our agriculture has failed. Our agriculture has been going down for 30 years. It goes into worse numbers year after year, and this positive torque hasn't happened yet because I know that we can use the demagogue Podravka should have all the products, all the raw materials produced in Croatia. But with today's situation in Croatian agriculture Podravka in order to meet its production needs, production capacities do not have enough agricultural raw materials in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29821	And Mr. Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29822	Thank you very much. Comrade Jakšić, you mentioned something that I think should be underlined, it is the reconstruction of Zagreb. Namely, our prime minister loves to boast about how much money he has brought from the European Union, etc., etc. And the best example for you is the money that came to us from the Solidarity Fund European money for the reconstruction of Zagreb. As you said almost a year after the devastating earthquake in Zagreb, no tenders have been opened to use this money in the reconstruction of Zagreb. And I fear that, with the best of will and with this strategy, we will not be able to have the capacity, will and vision to use the money offered from the European Union. That is what you are witnessing and in fact the devastating results of the withdrawal of funds from the current financial perspective, so not those that will come into effect. And yet we still have to demystify the contracted funds are not the same as the paid funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29823	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29824	So I deliberately mentioned in the debate that our economy has been stagnating not for the last five years, but for the last 40 years. Because if we looked 40 years back, we could make a clear comparison of the Croatian economy with Slovenia, Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and even Bulgaria and Romania. Perhaps if we had this data correctly worked out in this Strategy we would understand the depth of the problems we have and how many of our surrounding countries or our close countries in these few decades literally did not cut but ran, from year to year leaving us more and more, then we would see how much more they have done with European funds than we have done so far. And of course everything we have shown so far without clear data and plans in the National Development Strategy leaves one impression of the skeptic, one impression of the questionnaire and one impression of fear that the chaos with the restoration of Zagreb could happen to us. We're going to talk a lot, we're going to have a lot of grass, and then we're just going to postpone the month by the month by doing what we voted for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29825	Thank you. Now it's Mrs Mirela Ahmetovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29826	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. So this document of the National Development Strategy in my opinion has two problems or is problematic with two aspects. From both methodological and content aspects. My colleagues and colleagues who spoke before me had already mentioned from a methodological point of view that he was very poor as far as participatory is concerned. I will not enter the authors who did this strategy, nor the cost of it. However, what I see as very problematic is the fact that this Strategy brings about a vision of the development of the Republic of Croatia, and even two years before that, in some other strategic and operational projects, ways of achieving or achieving certain objectives have been adopted. Well, I guess it would be normal to first adopt a roof document, the National Development Strategy, which outlines the country's vision of development, and then to bring in sub-divisional documents to say that in which sector the individual objective is to achieve. However, as everything is upside down in this country, it is no wonder that the methodology for developing the National Development Strategy is also the most important document for developing a country upside down. What we are going to achieve by doing this is we will certainly satisfy the form or condition that we can withdraw or ensure which euro from the EU funds is not so bad if we want to if our intention is only to fulfill the form. What is fundamentally problematic is that this strategy does not offer an ambitious development plan for this country. I will look back on only one part, and it concerns the ecological and energy transition presented in this document as one of the strategic objectives, and it will not be feasible without this more ambitious attitude and clearer strategy of its achievement. It says in the Strategy that the aim is to ensure affordable, safe and quality energy supply that will help reduce the use of fossil fuels, greenhouse gas emissions and mitigate the risk of climate change. Questions are raised as to how this is meant to be achieved when the most important strategic companies of the Republic of Croatia are dealing with exactly fossil energy sources and fall under the tests of promoting sustainable or sustainable energy sources or promoting energy efficiency and transition? I will only mention Janaf as a state-owned company serving as a storage facility for fossil fuels for foreign countries. It operates with huge profits, which unfortunately does not invest in renewable energy sources, but, in fact, it is suspected that there are reasonable doubts about the extraction of this particular profit or money to build additional storage facilities precisely for oil as fossil fuel, while the existing capacities have not yet been used. Only a month ago, Janaf invested in renewable energy sources or solar photovoltaic cell, a power plant for his own purposes, and you will agree that everyone here is present to date could have been much more. Why, for example. All public energy companies of the Republic of Croatia have no obligation to invest profit precisely in promoting renewable energy sources? Now that would be the real commitment of this country to energy transition and greenhouse gas reduction. On the other hand, citizens pay incentives for renewable energy sources in their electricity bills and then the state spends it in a strange way, in such a way as to grant preferential conditions to large renewable energy producers, instead of returning to those same citizens exactly what they paid. Well, for example, no one in the state thinks it's possible to establish a so-called. The circular economy, respecting the public interest, the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in a way that by returning exactly those do not have about 50 euros per year if we talk about a classic family that does not spend too much electricity because it cannot do so in this country, return the part that has paid as an incentive for renewable energy sources in their pockets, further encourages the engagement of Croatian citizens who are very large in banks and that these same citizens, for example, set up a photovoltaic solar power plant to cover their own energy needs, thus encouraging the production of photovoltaic equipment that Croatian companies can produce. Unfortunately, they are now made by only one company. At one time, the same photovoltaic equipment was produced by as many as three companies in this country, and, of course, it is the kind of production that Croatian workers can engage. There are also bright examples in Europe where part of the shipyard, or parts of the shipyard, were reorientated to the production of such equipment until the shipbuilding had such a need for engagement. This is my proposal. What is a criticism is that the National Development Strategy is not ambitious enough, is not clear enough and is not a roof document of the development of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29827	Time. Thank you. Vice President Miroslav Skoro asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29828	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues Ahmetovic used an interesting word “participality” at the very beginning. So here's the public doing, when it comes to participating in the development of this National Strategy, it's called a national self-declarative. I watched a television show a few months ago when a gentleman who was more seen in the HDZ affair, known as "Half to me, half to you, half to him", said in a comment that there is no opposition and others in the creation of this Strategy, he said that, I quote about the memory "that opposition is not there and is not the place because it is not in the position of the government". So it seems to me that this is not a national strategy, but a pure HDZ strategy. And I'm private, and as a politician, I'm convinced that every child he's learned to read and write, because it's just about their future.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29829	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29830	Thank you very much. Well, it is generally known that the Croatian Democratic Union, a party that thinks it is worth the postulate "The State is me" or "The State is us" and I am not surprised by this statement by the party's member that actually the opposition has nothing to do with the development of the National Development Strategy. However, what is problematic if there is no opposition to do I wonder if experts in the territory of the Republic of Croatia therefore have domestic brains do they have anything to do with making such a strategy? I think they certainly do. I think that many other entities should have been included in this morning's debate, and I think that making such a document required much, much longer preparation. Today, however, she was too late for about a year. We remember the deadline for the adoption of this document was 3rd month 2020. So, we're late even now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29831	Thank you very much. Now it's Mrs. Katica Glamuzina's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29832	Mr. Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. In order to achieve even the undetected objectives of this national strategy, it should have been adopted more than 10 years ago and not now. At this rate, we will not reach prosperity in nine years to encourage our emigrants to return, and that prosperity is defined in this strategy about 70% of the prosperity that is in the EU. Not tens of thousands of people who have moved from Slavonia to Ireland over the past few years have found a better life for themselves because it will only be 25% worse for us. And speaking of Ireland, for example, in 2002, they started with laws prohibiting the use of single plastics. In the last term, the Croatian Parliament rejected such a bill, so that we would now be put in a position for the EU to join us and other members who have not yet forced such measures. That's why everything else that's left on the subject of the green transition in this strategy sounds utopian. When we couldn't make such a simple move two years ago, and we want to convince the citizens that in 9 years, all of these much more comprehensive goals will be achieved. I wish I was wrong. In part of the strategy that discusses administrative redundancies in the business environment, I will only tell you this: In Croatia right now, to open a simple tourist agency among the various technical conditions that must satisfy most of which have no real purpose, they must necessarily have a fax device in the area of the agency. 2021st year of fax machine? Is that anyone else going to sell? We are talking about digitisation and administrative discharge, and the Management Office for the Economy in their archives is piling up the paper forests in several copies, and the sea ink is spent on stamps that can only be found in the modern world in archaeological museums. Not a word about it in this strategy. There is also talk of modernising, introducing new industries and market activities. Do you know when the National Activity Classification was last updated? In 2007. By the way, when there's so much talk about Banja and Banovina, there's an English word for coffee and it's misspelled. I would just like to take a brief look at the mention of the development of biodiversity, and to note that these objectives are set in this strategy in the complete opposite of the Seed Act that we are waiting for here for to come to us for a debate that has just been set against this same biodiversity. And finally, let's look back on this fairy tale of education and science. It writes in the strategy, quote: The central point of development priorities in the field of science and research will be to increase investment in order to create knowledge, spread ideas, innovation and their successful commercialisation. It is a pity that this was not our goal last year when Professor Igor Staglar applied for the same project on lung cancer research in Canada and Croatia. In Canada, he usually lives and works, but he also wanted to give his Croatia a chance to be the bearer of such a project. It took his Croatia 16 months to respond by refusing. Canada granted him $3 and a half million within two months. I will also note that we have several scientists who are internationally recognizable by their contribution to science and who are members of other people's but not Croatian Academy of Science and Arts and not because they did not want them, but Croatia did not want them. And then we expect the Croatian scientific community to take us seriously when we talk about supporting the same community. By descending to the levels of preschool and primary education, I once again quote: “Full support will be developed for children in learning especially those with difficulties and gifts, it will work to raise the qualification standards of teachers including improving the system of professional training, as well as rewarding innovative creative ventures of those who teach and those who learn. When we asked the amendments to this particular thing to be supported by the budget, you refused any such amendment. That's why I can't take these statements seriously. There is no systematic incentive of teachers to creative work and professional training to work with gifted children. There's no curricula for gifted children. There's no enriching program for gifted children. There's no rewarding children with nat average successes, because they only have knowledge medals, they don't have any sports. These children, if they get lucky through outside systematic support, will end up just as they did just before mentioning scientists promoting other countries, not their own. By forgetting those most gifted among them, this whole strategy and if it were much better designed, it would be questionable.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29833	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first replica was sought by Nikola Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29834	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here's my colleague Glamuzine, I would not agree with you to work on this national strategy. Someone will not return from Ireland to the Republic of Croatia. I personally witnessed many examples of young families returning. In particular, I can say in the town of Vukovar because they got a state apartment for use under privileged conditions, where the rent of 2 kunas is 70 lip per metre square, i.e. for 50 square meters is 130 kuna per month. With a little baby, they came back, and they said that it gave them a prerequisite for the rest of their lives in the city of Vukovar. Also in other assisted areas. I personally returned to Vukovar after eight years of persecution in Zagreb. Therefore, if people are given preconditions regardless of what they may have been before, I believe that they will come back.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29835	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29836	I'm shocked you don't agree with me. It does not mean that they are the only conditions that people need to operate in a field. We'll look at the 2030s exactly how many of them have returned. For everyone you know who's back, I know two more who's gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29837	Mrs. Martina Grman Kizvat, second replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29838	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues Glamuzina, when you mentioned the eviction of our young people from Slavonia, I specifically came from Slavonia and I know that this trend is still growing. A bit of the coronary crisis has slowed down that part, but once the limits are re-opened in the right sense, it is likely that the exodus of our young and educated will grow very, very much. As far as my colleague's concerned, he now mentioned that the Vukovars had been given apartments. So did you provide them with a job or something? Well, he's not gonna live to eat walls, is he? That's the first thing. And another thing about higher education. Yes, we in our HDZ Strategy today say that they will invest in higher education and aim to achieve the European Union level. Does this mean that the Government of the Republic of Croatia plans to strengthen the European Union's level at the expense of our Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29839	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29840	I'm an Apropo Slavon. I don't think I have much to tell you. I agree with you. It is easy for Mr. Assembly representative to move to Croatia with his incomes. Someone who works like I don't even know a pizza master is a little harder. Apropo sciences, even now obviously we are giving birth to scientists for the world, not to Croatia, so I don't see why this trend wouldn't continue. According to this Strategy, I don't see that this will turn in the opposite direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29841	You don't have any more replicas. Thank you. Ms. Danica Baricevic is next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29842	Thank you very much, Vice President. I welcome all of you together. Here is the National Development Strategy we have heard today from all, and we know that the roof comprehensive document of the future development of the Republic of Croatia with very clearly set goals for the better and better quality of life of our citizens in the next 10 years of the 4 basic development objectives are defined by the development of the Strategy. I would particularly refer here to one relating to even regional development. This development direction will contribute to policies aimed at achieving strategic objectives aimed at developing assisted areas and areas with developmental specificities and strengthening regional competitiveness. I am expressing my support here for the fact that it is precisely in the context of the process of drawing up the National Development Strategy that points out the goal of encouraging investment policies that will enable regions to achieve a full competitive potential and balance in development. Since I am an islander and I come and live on the island and I come from the island, I am very pleased to see that the development of smart and sustainable islands is also recognized. The key areas of intervention, smart administration, smart resource management, smart economy, smart mobility, smart environment, life, safe islands are defined here, and the main objective is the sustainable development of the island. The fundamental purpose of sustainable island development is the continued and sustainable use of the entire island potential in economic, technological, social and other terms in order to protect the invaluable natural resources of our islands and to use their potential responsibly only to those measures that do not endanger the preserved and sensitive island environment, while on the other hand ensuring economically stable growth and quality life on islands that will certainly stimulate demographic development. Only achieving this balance and setting sustainable development as an imperative can ensure a long-term improvement for our islands and islanders. Among the priorities of implementing policies in the field of smart and sustainable islands, more quality integration of the island with the centre of economic dynamism is highlighted as an inevitable assumption of life sustaining and reviving, as well as better integration of the island with international markets. Structural changes in island economies will strengthen the capacity and island capacity to implement innovative solutions and will respond to key social challenges in the area of climate change and environmental protection, clean energy and transport, and health and quality of life on islands. Smart and sustainable management of island resources and the environment, the fight against climate change and risk prevention, sustainable development and structural transformation of the island economy, smart mobility and integration, development, the construction of sub-sea-land light broadband infrastructures and access electronic communications networks, the improvement of quality of life by public infrastructure development, support for housing and the development of public services are all highly detected priorities for the development of our islands in order to further revive these island economies, life on islands. The emphasis is also placed on the digital economy, on tourism, on the availability of public services for all island renewable energy sources, fisheries, production and nutrition, or food processing. All the objectives of Croatia's development defined in the National Development Strategy will also contribute to the programming of funds from the European Union funds and other international sources of co-financing or financing to the Republic of Croatia in particular in the new financial perspective of 21-27. It is very important that the National Development Strategy, based on a participatory process in which a wide range of citizens have participated, professional public and all socio-relevant partners by implementing this Strategy in the next 10 years, can certainly ensure a sustainable and stable development of Croatia and a better quality for our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29843	Thank you. You have several replicas. Mr. Vice President Skoro has his first line.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29844	Thank you. Dear colleagues of all flossules like smart this, smart this, sustainable this, is my favorite flossculette, the flossculette of all flossulas, a balanced regional development. This would mean that all regions are equally developed and not. To develop evenly some should wait or some should hurry. It's like a train leaving, one leaving Zagreb for Osijek at six o'clock in the morning, and the other starting at ten o'clock. It is very difficult for them, regardless of the conditions on our tracks, to arrive together in Osijek. The one who left at six is in great advantage. So, I'm just curious about how this even regional development is planned in Croatia, when we know that one Slavonia really is currently, and it shouldn't be so far behind, let's say, for example, for a colleague of Vice President Radin's for one Istria. That's what I want to know.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29845	But there are super fast trains that can reach the 10th. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29846	Thank you very much, Mr. Honorable Representative Skoro. Well, that's why our government is successful and here is regional development minister Natasa Tramišak, who is just coming from Slavonia, and then she comes to work. And as you know, the Republic of Croatia has changed the statistical map of the region, and now we have four NUCs of two regions, so that precisely by the basis of these differences that you have talked about and the inequalities in development, we can now enable state support to stronger economies, and that's exactly what this strategy is saying that it will provide equal opportunities for all and those less developed and more successfully developed, it is evenly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29847	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29848	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues in your debate, you spoke most about that part of the development strategy that concerns the island where you come from. You stressed the importance of encouraging investment policy that will enable regions to achieve competitiveness and balance in development. How important is the synergy of all participants to implement this document?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29849	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29850	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues Maximchuk, so I am always optimistic by nature and this document really brings ambitious goals. It brings ambitious goals that are exactly in line with the current EU policies, and this is indeed a great, great opportunity for the Republic of Croatia. I would say that it is also an obligation for all of us here to make use of the EU funds available to the joint forces in synergy with the state, counties, units of local self-government with private capital and in fact all of us here together contribute to the achievement of Croatia's 2030 vision of this great ambitious document.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29851	Mr. Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29852	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, I'm very glad you touched the island. That's why there's a lot of criticism on the left side of the assembly that this is just an empty story, that it's a floscule, that it's nothing. On the island of Croatia, within the operational programme, the competitiveness of cohesion has the assistance provided by the European Commission via JASPERS. Already now knowing what will enter the National Development Strategy on the island we have tasked JASPERS to develop three pilot areas, the environmental issue in the southern Adriatic, the question of the link between the construction of ferrys to renewable energy sources for the Middle Dalmatian islands and the question of renewable sources of the pilot project. Therefore, the bases have and the matter is ambitious, realistic and will be feasible from a future financial perspective so that I am very glad that you have just singled out the Islands as a topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29853	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29854	Yes, you said well that on the one hand we would protect this invaluable natural wealth of our islands and that sensitive island environment. And you've been working on this document, and I congratulate you too, dear colleague. Certainly this is an excellent opportunity for the islands to withdraw for the first time in this new financial perspective European funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29855	And finally Mrs Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29856	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, here I am encouraged to mention the island as I come from such areas. However, what is to be said and are you with those legal proposals that have been made so far and it has been about encouraging both islands and mountainous areas, have you already achieved certain shifts and what will this strategy actually contribute further to ensuring but I say also the mountain-mounted and undeveloped areas of quality and what quality we all want for our entire country?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29857	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29858	Yes, and so far, both the government and the ministry have taken care of islands and major investments are in the islands. We'll hear it. She also brought ten years later and a new Law on Islands that actually brought a better connection between the island, and we will hear it from the report that will be on the agenda soon in the Croatian Parliament. Yeah, well you said sustainable, inclusive and innovative islands that's something that's the future. Digital islands, or digital smart technology, is the future of Croatian islands. In any case, this document clearly has a goal and how to achieve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29859	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. And now it's Mr. Domagoj Hajdukovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29860	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I'll start with something positive. In fact, it is positive that we discuss this strategy in the Croatian Parliament. It is positive that what we think about this strategy can be heard by our fellow citizens and the interested public. What's not good is not good for us to discuss it just now. Serious countries have long had their development strategies. We had a chance to hear it was because of the pandemic, so we were doing a new one, but it's just neither true nor excuse. If there was a pandemic and it was, we were surprised by the existing strategy to be easily modified. But we waited too long. I think we should have had this debate about January, but last year, and it would have been too late, to take the second step that is even more important, which is even more important, which is operational programming. Because this strategy is actually if you compare it with some other strategies, national development strategies of other countries, and a rather comprehensive document. It is not a task to actually draw out all the measures to be implemented in order to achieve the objectives. It's the task of operational programs. But programming is a rather non-transparent process in which we as a Parliament won't be involved, and that's why I'm actually afraid of what we're going to do in that sense. What I have to point out and I already have is concern when we talk about regional development and uniform regional development. Namely, the rulings are constantly full of the mouth of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, the east of Croatia, etc. etc. And I must repeat that with this extensive 150-page document, Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem mention the saying twice, twice. And that is once mentioned only in the context that they are among undeveloped regions, along with everyone else. You won't believe this document. It says Bani, not Banovina. Irrelevant now for this story, but it's interesting to underline. However, many assisted areas are mentioned, and unfortunately the entire east of Croatia but also a good part of other parts of Croatia as the colleague also pointed to the map this morning, unfortunately, falls into assisted areas because they are demographically, economically, completely devastated. I fear that the legislative proposals that we already have on the agenda in the Croatian Parliament will not contribute to the re revitalising of these depopulated regions. For example, the Seed Act will surely touch our agriculture, our Slavonia, our producers if adopted in the form that the Government proposes. As far as global visibility and strengthening the international position and role of Croatia are concerned, I must say that first we must know what we want. We knew by 2013, we had strategic goals that was joining NATO, to ensure ourselves. So, for security reasons, that's EU entry. But ever since then, I've felt like we've been looking at each other. We are in charge because we do not see clearly where we want to be, we see ourselves in the EU, we do not work enough and we do not use the tools at our disposal to achieve Croatian interests. And that is why we do not actually capitalise on the extent that our EU membership should be needed. It also says the strategy is one of the strategic goals of Croatia's entry into the Schengen area and the euro area. I can talk about Schengen for another ten minutes now, it's a political decision now, so we'll see how much our prime minister has political influence to defuse our entry into the Schengen area. And the euro area will be very interesting to see from the perspective of the pandemic, from the perspective of the huge decline in GDP and how this will also reflect our potential entry into the euro area. The strategy also says it aims to encourage international investment. I'll tell you one thing about the investments I've heard from international investors, and that's do you know what ABC investment is, or ABC investment is? Anything about Croatia. Anything but Croatia. Why are we in that voice? Well certainly not because we have a regulated and legally secure state, certainly not because we very often change tax policies and certainly not because we are doing everything to bring these same investors into Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29861	A few replicas. The first line has Michel Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29862	Dear colleague Hajdukovic, since you mentioned just investing in the Republic of Croatia, and we are all aware that where we have assisted areas and where we have the phenomenon that young people are moving out, that what is most important is investments and exactly jobs. If, for example, for Slavonia from which you come from, we can argue that everything that goes through it and in this National Development Strategy, in other government documents is ambitious enough, is progressive enough. Whether there are enough tax mechanics and other investment indicators and incentives to make it more attractive and to keep young people living in Slavonia. Or is the only thing we have is the collapse of faith in institutions through numerous corruption affairs that, unfortunately, some of them have not bypassed your Slavonia either.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29863	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29864	Thank you very much. counterpart Jaksic, no, this strategy is not ambitious in that part. Not even the so-called. The project Slavonia, the PR project of this government, is not ambitious enough in this regard. Because people can't eat apartments, they can't eat roads, they can't eat social homes, they can't provide a future for their children, and those kids will live off these same roads, social homes, etc. Of course, there is a need to create infrastructure and preconditions for economic development, but it's all going too slowly. And why aren't the investors coming to us? Well, because they don't trust the institutions of this state, among other things. When you ask an entrepreneur, and there are many successful ones in Slavonia from the IT sector that we can help you. They tell you, just don't touch us, just don't help us. So this tells you enough about the trust they have in the institutions of this state, which should encourage and help, rather than devastate and escape.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29865	Mrs. Katica Glamuzina's next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29866	Col. Hajduković, given that several times it has been heard here, not only today but also before the SDP government has set up regions exactly like this for the purpose of keeping statistics within Croatia, can you please explain to everyone here how this division happened and explain to a colleague who spoke before you what such division serves since she skipped the key letter in her NUT abreviation which defines the purpose of such division. She's a statistical colleague, by the way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29867	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29868	Well, I could give a lecture right now, but there are three classes of NUC region. As a rule, depending on the population, they usually follow the already existing administrative division of a particular country. In our case, since we're divided administratively the second level of the NUC region is much wider. But as a rule, with the recommendations of EUROSTAT, statistical regions are made, of course, with the decision of the national authorities. Therefore, NUC regions are extremely important, we agree. But what was said, which was a lot of talk, these are the NUT regions. I don't know what it is. That maybe someone else could explain it to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29869	It was a short lecture. Compliments. Sir, Mrs. Excuse me, Grman Kizvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29870	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Hajdukovic, speaking of some positive things about the strategy, I also need to say something positive. Other countries in the environment have brought their strategy long ago. We are so innovative, so we bring ours so late that we manage to infuse it and the consequences of the corona crisis. We're so late, but we're innovative, which is positive. Speaking of efforts to ease the crisis and it is listed in that strategy, the question may be raised that HDZ knows something that we do not know when the coronary crisis will end. Maybe this time it ends before the election and the locals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29871	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29872	Thank you, colleague. I agree that the strategy was adopted too late precisely because the main business is just ahead of us. And good times, of course. The multiannual financial framework has not yet been adopted, ratified in all countries but it would be much better if we had much more time to deal with this real part, which is programming. As for the corona virus, that we could have an existing strategy, that we had it easily modified at the time. But I can also tell you when the corona virus will probably be defeated before the election as it was last time. So, I can't wait for another election to be made to beat the HDZ Coronna crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29873	Mr. Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29874	Thank you, Vice President. Here is colleague Hajdukovic, therefore, mentioned concerns about assisted areas, which I absolutely agree and support. We have also passed two laws, the Law on Supported Areas and the Law on Housing Care in Supported Areas, which has led to the care of 4242 families, and 15000 people, thanks to the laws of the past term alone, remained there. What bothers me, why in 2016, when I came to the State House Office, 67 million kuna remained unexpended, so returned to the budget. Thus, 450 families could be provided through construction material, and of course housing is not the only thing keeping people in assisted areas. And for this reason I can say that in December 2020 in the city of Vukovar, 10234 employees, i.e. 1023 more employees than in 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29875	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29876	Thank you very much. That our colleague and I agree, so housing won't keep people there, but it's one of the elements he wants. On the other hand, what would be interesting is the structure of employees not only in the town of Vukovar, but in general. How much is employed in the public sector, how much is in the private sector, how much is in production, how much is in agriculture, etc. Unfortunately, I'm afraid we're going to come up with defeating data, which is that most of the employees in the public sector, which are places that don't create added value, that don't generate new jobs except, well in some cases, that in the case of HDZ. Which will not create those other preconditions that we are talking about, which is one healthy economic situation in which different entities will hire and thus give this added value that we need to keep young people not only young but all people in assisted areas, which is a sure existence.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29877	Mrs. Vucilovic is in violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29878	I am calling upon the famous article 238. The secretary of state does not wear a mask. Since on several occasions you and some other chairmans have thrown out parliamentary deputies for this, then I do not know what appropriate punishment would be for the secretary of state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29879	You didn't specify an article. I have to give you a warning. That is clear because at the very least because of the non-indulgence of articles. Where were we? Mrs. Andreja Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29880	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29881	No, no, wait. Mr. Vice President Skoro asked for the same violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29882	Yes, thank you, Mr. Vice President, and a dear colleague. So you violated Article 236 of the Croatian Rules of Procedure. My colleague Vucilovic was right, she called if you hadn't heard, even told the adjective "on the famous Article 238." So she called. You gave her a warning, you can give it to me. However, they all heard that she had called for the article.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29883	Okay, I didn't hear. I give you the right, but the warning remains because it was a replica. You just want to take off the mask for a little while so I can hear exactly what you said. I'm sorry. I'm giving it right outside the Rules of Procedure. I'm giving you one more word. Here you go, Mrs. Vuciilovic. Just take off your mask or talk harder to hear. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29884	Thank you very much. Who's at the end now? Who are you giving your word to?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29885	No, not you, Mrs. Vuciilovic, because as far as I'm concerned, there's no 238, but go ahead. You know what time I'm wrong, too. You wouldn't believe it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29886	I thank the chairman, but I did say what I had to say, and here is the State Secretary. I watched him for a few minutes, one-five while he was talking to counterpart Hajdukovic, he didn't have a mask. And because of the epidemiological measures, the coronal situation and everything, I think my remark was appropriate. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29887	Okay, it wasn't 238. She was fit. I take it back, but you won't believe it with 238. It doesn't matter. But all right, let's take it back. There are extraordinary circumstances, you didn't have a mask, I agree. He regrets and we move on. Mrs. Andreja Maric, please. What's the matter now? Mr. Pavić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29888	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. This Regulation shall enter I have to defend the secretary of state, most of the time he had a mask and I'm sorry to hear about the mask coming from your club when your former colleague Caroline was the champion. But maybe that's why she left the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29889	Oh, no, no, no. Mr. Pavić, with all due respect, let's stop this. Please stop with those masks! Masks must be worn! Mrs. Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29890	Thank you for the fourth time. Dear fellow Minister Hajdukovic, you come from Slavonia and you know best how many people have gone, how many young people have gone and highly educated, including healthcare professionals The problems of forming primary health care teams exist for years. The problem of the number of healthcare professionals in smaller Vinkovci hospitals is also a question of the equilibration of regional development and availability of health care especially in areas such as Slavonia. I underline what you said about all this being discussed earlier. If not before, then last year when the pandemic caught fire. Because it should have included everything in this development strategy. It has been known for months that the current problems stemmed from the corona crisis and have further deepened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29891	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29892	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You wear masks, you can save someone's life especially for colleagues and colleagues who haven't gotten over the corona. So there are those of us who, from our own experience, can talk about it. So, about what you said to your colleague. Strategic thinking remains very much in the way of our lives, and in health care without further ado. Unfortunately, firsthand, I've seen what the functioning of the health system looks like in these severe pandemic conditions. And in fact, if you didn't have enthusiasm and commitment, the self-defension of employees in that same health system, it would have long gone down, especially as you said in areas where there are already shortages of healthcare professionals. And let's say there was a lot of mention of migration and immigration policy in this debate. Do you know that since 2015, Croatia has not had an immigration strategy yet, and now it is more important than ever. So, when we don't think about some of the burning things, I'm strategically afraid we won't talk about anything and it won't get us far.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29893	Thank you. Mr. Hajdukovic, thank you for your help. Although I still don't understand why you don't have to wear the mask in front of the glass, and I have to wear the mask in front of the glass. But it doesn't matter, it's just that they're illogical while they're erasing. A little dyspression. Mrs. Romana Nikolic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29894	Thank you, Vice President. The proposal for a National Development Strategy proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia should be Croatia 2030. Highlighted as a competitive, innovative, secure country of recognizable identity and culture, land of preserved resources, quality living conditions and equal opportunities for all. We all want Croatia 2030. They're better, they're more successful, they're more state-of-the-art. However, this beautifully written essay document, which has been presented to us, does not offer a clear picture or give indications which are the key priorities of Croatia that will achieve this. The price of making a 32 million kuna strategy is the only thing that actually falls into your eyes, but you don't know who's really behind the construction of that document, nor is it clear what this 32 million kunas agreed to be used to consult the World Bank have actually been spent on. And only for comparison at the end of August 2020. A new line of poverty of 2710 kuna for singles has been announced. More than 700,000 pensioners have a pension below the poverty line, and 70% of pensions are below the poverty line. According to the estimate, each page of this document cost about 230 000 kuna. How many years did a pensioner receive a pension in that amount? We do not want to create any political divisions in this debate, but this is not a solution and citizens just want a solution to their problems, they want a better life for themselves and their children. This proposal doesn't offer that, and that's what's worrying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29895	Thank you, too. We have a replica of Mr. Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29896	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Nikolic, you also mentioned the ambiguity of who made the strategy and how much it cost. So I want to ask you if you have any knowledge of who worked and how much they cost similar documents in Croatia, either outside Croatia dealing with this topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29897	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29898	Thank you, colleague Hajdukovic. Well, if we compare this government document to that agreement that our SDP government made in 2014 we will see how much more concrete our document was, which was more detailed in terms of implementation measures related to the priorities of Croatia and the EU. And what was much cheaper. And this document, the basis of the document, was done by one of our local minds, more specifically the Zagreb Economic Institute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29899	Thank you, too. You don't have any more replicas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29900	I thank the chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. To write a country development strategy that is 30 years from the draft 7 years after EU entry at the bottom of all European rankings that measures state development should be the most difficult, most ambitious, most important task of determining the vision and goal the country should pursue in 10 or 20 years, to determine what is specifically different, which is what makes us special to other countries. So in these conditions in which Croatia is present today is both a difficult task and a challenge, but it seems an easy task. Because when you're at the bottom which can be a vision rather than going to get off the bottom, is the only way up from the bottom? How would the Germans do that? They would evaluate the previous strategic document in the post-evolution process, list what has been done, which is not and then upgrade it for the next 10 years. These post-evaluations are important, they are thrown out of the document, this is how documents are thrown out that say nothing that has been successfully achieved so far, and then every ten years, a list of beautiful desires that some of them are always the same. The strategy of the Republic of Croatia in this way is therefore a beautiful dress but dressed in the old and downed body. If we are at the bottom of the show here someone mentioned just before assisted areas, the development index tells us that our 12 counties and 304 units of local self-government are currently defined as assisted areas, and 4 Slavonian counties reach only a third of the level of EU development. The strategy is therefore written as many times so far as one alibi, an alibi so that they can formally apply to competitions for money from European funds. Poorly written, full of flossules, parole, incomprehensible, unambitious. I was going to say that such a strategy could be written by any country, but I must correct any modern and ambitious country would not have thrown out or proposed such a document. A single system error is visible in the document. Namely, the indicators set are linked to the EU's values of 2019, not taking into account the development of these countries. So we set ourselves the goals of reaching the level that the EU has reached in 2019 in 2030, if we catch that, we will be 11 years late. So, what strategy did she have to be? Simple, clear, understandable, ambitious with a real desire for Croatia to be a country from which citizens do not flee but return to it. For example, imagine that the strategy was to 2030. Croatia is the leader of the development of artificial intelligence in Europe, a country with the cleanest environment, a synonym for renewable energy sources, something that every citizen will accept as their goal in 2030, even if we are half of those goals. The results of such a strategy would be to awaken and take the spirit of this country, that young people no longer escape, to return to us many of those citizens who have moved but to attract and say a hundred thousand digital nomads who will see their opportunity here, come live here with us and share with us good and evil. You ignored Split and Dalmatia in the strategy. You have ignored other areas, but here I will now mention only Split and Dalmatia, because someone who has paid more than 30 million kuna to produce this document may not have remembered that Split is the busiest port in Croatia, the third busiest port in the Mediterranean. More than 5 and a half million passengers a year, more than 800,000 vehicles a year. So it was left out of the strategy, inserted at the last minute only when the remarks were made. The strategy is the worst where it should be best at science and education. The most unrealistic goal of all time is to increase investment in science to three percent of GDP and to listen to it 15, 20 years ago and we haven't achieved one. Therefore, the part related to education is not in line with the current Education Strategy. It is a shame that the Education Strategy is not listed at all on the document list. The completion of the curricula reform is mentioned. She's been dead for years. To end here in such a short time just say the only meaningful strategy at this time is to organise honest, capable and valuable people to take over the management of Croatia and that in 2030 Croatia really is a country of happy and proud people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29901	Thank you. Mrs. Vucimilovic asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29902	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague Puljak, you said in your statement that this strategy is a beautiful dress on some old, sick, ugly body somehow if I said so. Well then, according to that analogy, that old body would be Croatia, and I can't agree with you at all. Croatia is a country that has great predispositions, has great people, smart, well-educated. It's the only thing that's been mishandled for 20 years because the 10 first time we've created a state and we've been at war, we still can't count as normal times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29903	Mrs. Puljak, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29904	Well, I'll agree with you that Croatia is full of potential. But for 30 years, this kind of government has led to the European Commission predicting that by 2030 we will be there. Be 3.8 million, up to 2050. 3.4, to 2070. Three million. The share of the population over 65 years of 2050 will be almost 30%. So 30 years of this government led to the fact that, as I said, Croatia is at the bottom of all the rankings that measure the development of a country and that's what I was talking about when I said it on one occasion, I don't mean the residents, but actually the conditions in which these residents live. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29905	Thank you. No more replicas. Thank you very much. Now it's Mrs. Sandra Bencic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29906	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, it is clear that our views on the content offered by this strategy are different in terms of our political positions and in fact it would be good and normal if here today we could discuss the political differences relating to the content of this strategy, but this is the first time that I cannot even discuss the strategy in substance. And I have to say that as someone who has spent many years working on strategic planning and regional development this strategy, I find this day saddened by the fact that our country's state apparatus has less capacity for strategic planning than it did in 2006. So contrary to what the prime minister said today, and Mrs. Bedekovic is not the first strategic development framework of the general and comprehensive that Croatia has ever made. And it is sad that the people who run this country do not know that we have had such a strategic framework before, for example, from 2006 to 2013, it was done by the ZDURF, the then body of the Central State Office for the Development Strategy and the coordination of EU funds. We also had this body that was actually involved in co-ordination of development. And that was the very name of the document, and it was general and comprehensive and I didn't agree with its contents at all, it was neoliberal and it rested on principles that were already out of date. But in terms of structure, methodology, evidence, indicators, references that strategic, sectoral strategies will solve which part of the goals was the space shuttle for what we got today, space shuttle. So, what I'm saying is, today we've got a document in which I see the same goals, the same proposals for measures we see from the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. So the exact same things as the flexible labour market, the education that serves labour market needs, the reduction of the role of the state in the economy, and I find it incomprehensible that after 30 years of failure of the concept of privatisation, the alignment of culture and education with the needs of the market, cultural heritage that is seen exclusively through the prism of tourism needs, the rights of workers that are subordinated to alleged competitiveness. We still haven't realized all the evidence that this concept doesn't work for most. It works for a small, small minority. And that minority amounts to that money from Croatia is not to leave it here. So we don't see that it leads to the stagnation of employment, the prevalence of lower jobs in the structure of the economy, that it pleases the development of those branches of the economy with lower added value and no competitiveness and no productivity, because the only competitiveness we have is based on the exploitation of any human beings, whether or not the resources of natural, without any added value. So for 30 years and such strategies, we have been led to almost all indicators, and we know that because we keep repeating it here at the bottom of the EU and we haven't moved, we haven't moved since 2014 since we received these funds from the EU. We didn't move because what we have in this concept of development is going to go 50 billion Euros into groundwater because it can't be this concept of development based on what I've said plus exclusively on the idea that someone else will finance us based on what we need, which is a concrete, profound change of attitude towards both people and the economy and society. As far as the Green Plan is concerned, I really expected more, so we have two goals of ecological and energy transition and self-sufficiency in food and bio-economic development. So, first, we go into our eyes to call ourselves the leaders of transformation, the green transformation, and we set ourselves a 10% less target than the EU target for reducing greenhouse emissions. Secondly, there's no mention of organic or organic farming let alone how much of it we want to have, no mention of low-carbon shipping where we could really take a step. So we didn't detect key, development branches until 2030. And you say it's a good document. [[Intruder: Time.]] It's a sad day for me and I'm ashamed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29907	Now it's Mr. William Matula's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29908	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the national development strategy is the government's most important document at the 21st century pass in the 20th century to paraphrasise our great contemporary poet. All the parts in which the strategy is being touched by culture are particularly generic by their character and which points to a fundamental problem, which is a complete lack of vision which the prime minister tells us is right at the top of the vision. It's not true, look, make sure it's not true at all. It's mentioned somewhere in culture and nothing else. It is a lack of say vision and lack of consciousness about the relevance of culture in the modern world, in modern society. The way in which it is accessible to this area can be characterized in fact by a cynical, non-substantiative, reductionist and instrumental aspect of culture, so we believe that at least in this part, the strategy is totally unacceptable. And this part of the strategy should certainly be re-edited. The strategy has no but no development of visions in the field of culture as much as you and I have been doing together and giving lectures on the strategic level and on the operational level because we don't understand it, and people have been doing, people are experts, people are doing strategic planning before they come here, it's their job. The strategy does not go from objective assessment of the situation, problems, opportunities, nor sets any goals. Culture and the media have been placed in the framework of purely economic development, although it calls for the importance of these same, think and culture and the media for democratic development, for creativity which we will agree on, of course, but does not talk about it. No more attention is paid to cultural and creative industries, far more than the rest of the cultural sector, and the rest of the cultural sector has a greater overall impact on employment, on the economy, on innovation and on international exchange. In the light of the above, it can be concluded that the document offered in terms of culture is undeveloped, without vision, without clear concrete guidelines of action and a flat-rate vis-à-vis many aspects of the field and can be concluded that it actually marginalises that it contributes to further marginalisation of culture. Culture is not set in a broader sense as a sphere in which society articulates the vision of its future, in which antagonism and dialogue of social diversity take place. The culture thanks to the action of previous authorities on ordinary men was actually reduced mainly to the sphere of nationalist identification on the one hand or domicile and consumption on the other side simultaneously for artists, for creators. Culture is reduced to a sphere of insecure work in inadequate spaces and inadequate production conditions and living conditions. Now, in this respect, after all these shortcomings have been numbered, we feel it is necessary to reject this document for the simple reason that it does not satisfy even the elementary norms of its form. What I believe is our friend when he commented that the strategy was well-versed. All in all, grief is too great.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29909	Thank you and the winding up of the assembly by 18 hours and 10 minutes, please. It's 18.03 hours. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 18.09 HOURS]] Martina Grman Kizavitt. Is there a bell? Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29911	Thank you, Vice President. Fellow Members and colleagues, today we have before us a proposal for a national development strategy. In my debate, I'll look back on several areas. What is crucial to Croatia's survival in general is the issue of demographics. The EU projection is that 2030 to be on 3.8 million inhabitants. In parallel, the number of people over 65 years of age increases. For 5%. In parallel, it envisions reducing the share of the working population by half a million, so now I wonder what the government's been doing all this time? Demographic policy exists, but I can see it's not a priority. When I asked Mr. Plenkovic when he would delimitate the birth benefits for the other six months, he happily replied that the fee was increased from 4,000 to 5,000 kuna, imagine an increased fee. That's not enough, gentlemen. The delimination of maternity benefits, the esteemed Mr Plenkovic, promised in his two pre-election programmes or as the people would say "a promise of insane joy". Next, you encourage the purchase of apartments with a subsidy, and you failed to provide our young people with the basics, which is a permanent job and credit ability. Third thing, you say you'll invest in higher education. Bravo! Does this mean that even postgraduate specialist studies that have not been recognized in the labour market for more than a decade will become one? I must remind you that this is a degree of education under the doctorate, under the doctorate. Today more than 270 studies are being conducted, and for which the ministry gives regular permits, but the same ministry has not made an effort to make the study known. Thousands of people are obviously deceived. It's expensive education, and people don't have the right to pay. Collective contracts are still recognized only by the Doctors of Science and Master of Science. Well, gentlemen, the title of Master of Science cannot be acquired for more than a decade. This is how late you are in higher education, and your goal is to reach the EU average level in 2030. You're really on the right track to do this just for over a decade. Furthermore, 9 out of 14 counties in the continental part of Croatia recorded a decline in the population from 10% to 20%. The County, which is a visual example of the backlog of development, is unfortunately my Virovitica-Podravska County. You can see that in the development strategy. Shame! This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The GDP per capita in Zagreb was EUR 20,850, and my Virovitičko-podravska was EUR 6,445 per capita. There you go, gentlemen. That's Croatia's appendix. The fastest highway is 70 km away, traffic isolation has made its own. You are talking about developed and perspective Croatia, and then I must remind you that this Virovitica-Podravska County is part of the Republic of Croatia. And finally, what is most humiliating is the fact that the strategy will pay 32 million kuna to our main goal is to 2030. We reach the average of the EU in 2019, so aren't you at least a little uncomfortable? Even Slovenia has brought its strategy in 2017 to its senses, but we are not Slovenia, we are not an environment country, we are obviously rich, boastful, so we throw ourselves away for millions when we do not need our brains or enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29912	Stay here because she's Mrs. Devereaux. Marina Opačak Bilic asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29913	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I agree with your presentation. You mentioned at the beginning of your exhibition that demographics are a key issue for the survival of Croatia. Of course, above all, the state must create a safe climate and equality in order to mitigate negative demographic trends. Birth benefits are not satisfactory, children's allowance is far from equalising with payments in countries, other EU countries that actually achieve positive rates of natural growth. We also saw in the draft development strategy that women are still less paid than men in Croatia and here's how much do you think this strategy will in itself contribute to solving these problems?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29914	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29915	I'd like to thank Representative Bilic the Persect. I'll answer to this last one first. I don't expect anything from the strategy and she won't solve anything. As far as maternity benefits are concerned, birth benefits are something Mr. Plenkovic has twice promised in his pre-election program and every time we talk about it, every time we slap every mother who gives birth to a child and for the next 6 months falls to 4 or 5,000 kuna, so much for maternity benefits. And as for the child's allowance, that some other countries have more arranged this child's allowance system and that's why they are far, far ahead of us. And as for inequality in wages between men and women, I only have one thing to tell you, I have one piece of information in Croatia on average for a yearly man earning 13.572 kuna more than a woman for a job where they should be paid the same. The strategy of the story about this problem will pay special attention And that's all there is to the strategy. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29916	Thank you, too. And now it's Mr. Miro Bulj's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29917	Thank you very much. Citizens are probably following this which interests and must know that on the 100th page in which 30 million kunas are invested, there is no mention of the centre of the second city of Dalmatia that is Split. There is no mention of the Split-Dalmatia County except after the comments were made then it was mentioned little Split and as regards the Split-Dalmatia County and Dalmatia very little is mentioned. We personally listened to these governments here, mostly us from those parts, promises three years ago where they said they would, that they would invest 3 billion kuna in this past period. In Split-Dalmatia County, they invested zero kunas, zero kunas, and respected representatives of the government. And once again, I would just say what's important in this strategy. Everything that's written in it, we'll all agree, it's declarative, but rural areas are forgotten again. We need to know that Croatia is not only Zagreb, Croatia is 2/3 of the Republic of Croatia and we need to put it in the Constitution obviously because no one understands that Croatia is an area of 2/3 of Croatia and that we do not have the same conditions of life, nor the possibility of development, and our potentials from Gorski kotar, forest, natural beauty to like, hinterland of Dalmatian, my Zagora, to Neretva, more famous, these potentials are dead potentials. Lipo's in the strategy to listen here about agriculture. Currently in Croatia 0.5%, 0.5% of agricultural land is irrigated, and the prime minister has announced that it will double-water which means only 1%. From a billion and a half, from a billion and a half hectares, a million and a half acres of pardon we have in agricultural land is only 0.5% irrigated. So we're not ambitious. Instead of encouraging the village, the peasants and 2/3 of the Republic of Croatia what we do, you are sending to the government representative's procedure the Law on the ban on indigenous seed on the market. So who are you cheating on here, the Croatian people? And the OPGs and other associations from the village are rightly rebelling, that's the end of the Croatian village. Instead of being our potential in the strategy, not guessing, I don't know which industries and GMOs from Monsant to others. As far as agriculture is concerned, it must be self-sufficiency, we see it in this crisis which is the problem. From Slavonia to my Zagora, it's a key problem. As far as sustainable development is concerned, I just said Cetina River, the clear, the pie in it is left with sewers. Who's to blame? Is the pipeline Sinjski, yes, is Croatian water, yes, is it the Minister of Environment, yes, because they are all within the project team for agglomeration Sinj. And Minister Pavic now pledged millions, billions to Plenkovic in pre-election time in Zagora. So here's 150 million dollars to protect Cetina because you've publicly destroyed, there's no power to power the city of Split, for every rain, water is clouded and dangerous to drink. So we protect our pearl Krka, protect our Cetina, Zrmanja, and here Cetina flows fecal waters straight through the Sinj field instead of watering the fecal water they go into the river Cetina. And these are the problems that are described here in the strategy, I don't mind, but what's in reality, nothing. You are canceling public procurement, aware that construction will now grow, i.e. Needed, it takes bigger for construction workers and will collect the price, and it is as if the minister does not understand. However, here, after my speech today, I was invited by the Croatians to take me to the meeting of the director and I hope that we will solve this problem of the clean river Cetina. We can also talk about waste management, not only what Minister Ćorić did to transport garbage from Vrgorec to Sinj while Lečevica nit started, the money was spent and it is a harmful project that does not protect water. So we have options, the strategy is the easiest to write, we wrote it as documentation and strategy, but if we invested as much money in agriculture as the strategy was written, we'd be the most developed in the world. It's those free strategies, and they were even written by the Croats, who's writing here, whether they know who's writing. So we didn't include our potentials in writing this, so you're paying for it with knows who And who knows for whom he's cutthroats. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29918	Stay, stay. Mr. Troscott, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29919	Dear Mr. Bulj, my question regarding this strategy that we have had to listen to all day, the President of the Supreme Court while he was here, and he gave his opinion on the Supreme Court report, he was able to say that the judiciary does not stop entrepreneurship and the economy and that it is a simple mantra. You were quite critical when he was present here, so here's what your opinion is, and do you think that the judiciary was well processed in this national strategy and is it visible, so where are we going to be with the judiciary in 2030?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29920	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29921	So the biggest problem with the development of the Croatian economy, competitiveness, security of the economy, entrepreneurs for job creation, and besides investment in jobs, 5 things were clearly said as justice, justice, justice, justice and justice, and then I told the President of the Supreme Court, Đuri Sessi, that in the judiciary in Croatia the most important bag. The bag is the most important. A bag. For those of you who don't know who the bag is, it's that bag, and it's the money in that bag. So, as long as it is important in the Croatian judiciary, a more important bag of justice, law, law, constitution and what we have brought so far will be mistrust in the judiciary. The judiciary has to be independent and that's the question. The state's attorney is holding a press conference with the prime minister. Well, we parliamentary deputies, since parliamentary democracy was supposed to be a hundred times louder to stop the prime minister's dictatorship in occupying judicial bodies like the DORH or the judiciary.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29922	Thank you. And now Mr. Ante Kujundzic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29923	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Bulj, an analysis of the situation is actually the starting point for defining any problems, and then, in effect, the tools and methods of recovery themselves. Strategic objective number 12. National strategies state that in many cases the fundamental cause of underdevelopment and depopulation is actually directly linked to war injuries and the level of damage caused by the Homeland War. Now, my Imotian landscape has given a little more than 240 Imogeneous sons who have given their lives to create this country and it's about an area that hasn't been affected by the war itself, and then it's not about the damage that could possibly come out of it. More than 2,500 people are out of work because of the robbed and devastated drive of Trimoto, Agrokok, Progress and not to count, and the strategy in the case of the Dalmatian Zagora is not actually covered by the quality of the analytical starting point What do you think of that? [[Intruder Radin: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29924	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29925	Yes, the Powers were brave towards my Sinjans from Dubrovnik to Vukovar, from all over the world people defended freedom in the community at the time, not even wondering who the sons of Partisans were, or who the Ustasha sons were, were in Hos, were in the Croatian Army, were in the police or were in the Croatian Council of Defense. And the damage caused by the large Serb occupiers, the Chetniks needed this Croatian government and all previous ones first to collect war damage from Serbia, from the aggressors and not bow down and call out the most prominent troops and sons in the Homeland War. Croatia must condition Serbia for any EU talks to pay for war damage committed by criminals along with their president, Chetnik Vukic, Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29926	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mrs. Vesna Bedekovic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29927	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State. Here in these five minutes all day almost today we are discussing the proposal of the National Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia. I'll try to give some of my visions as short as time allows and look back at some of the thesis. So, first of all, this is, today we are discussing the first comprehensive strategic document since the acquisition of independence of the Republic of Croatia which has been built on the threshold of 4 decades of Croatian independence. And it is important to take into account the context, i.e. the challenges facing the world and which Croatia faces in the time in which I live and challenge. I took this seriously with the mask. I even wear two of these, but thank you very much. It is also important to take into account the challenges that will mark the decade ahead, which is primarily digitisation, then equally important demographic challenges, equally important climate change, and then, at the end of all of this, the pandemic of the covid-19 virus that has caused the global health threat, and as far as Croatia is concerned, the biggest not only health and general crisis since the Homeland War here, and to this end, the earthquakes of spring in Zagreb and this recent in the areas of the cities of Sisak, Petrinja and Gline. Indeed, it is necessary to consider the context in which this strategy is being completed, and it has been working for some time. And of course take into account its basic purpose, which is to set long-term developmental directions and long-term strategic goals for Croatia over the next 10 years. It is equally not less important to set guidelines and to set priorities for, therefore, the use of European funds. This is also the basis for the use of European funds. And I really think that this is an ambitious and realistic document that was created on a series of analytical bases made using an appropriate methodology without pretentiousness, and with an emphasis on clarity, with an emphasis on coreness and what I think is particularly important with a clear commitment to investment in people. And by doing so, this government is just continuing all those activities that have been undertaken during this and last term and are related to investment in people. So one continuity not only increases wages, increases in pensions, all those social benefits and all that, tax policies and everything that was done in this government's term. During the debate, it was more difficult that this strategy should have been made ten years ago, that it should have been done much earlier, I agree with that, it should have. One of my colleagues and a colleague said the time was 10 years ago, I think a colleague of Glamuzina, if so. Yeah, you should have. I'll remind you that if 2021. We're subtracting those 10 years, that's 2011, right? As far as I'm concerned, we'll all agree there was a time 10 years ago. In 2011, it was then that your political option was in power, so I remember that in 2011, when a strategy instead of a strategy was presented, Plan 21. 2011 with 21 chapters. At the time of presenting the plan and entering this option, the number of employees was 302,000, after they came down from the government of 355,000 unemployed. The number of persons employed per pensioner was 1.2 after leaving this option from power 1.1. About GDP, the other indicators I'm not talking about here. I will only talk about who the Croatian people have given their trust to, I will talk about an option which, for the first time since the independence of Croatia, made this strategic document, concise, core, ambitious, but realistic to me. In addition to the developmental guidelines, other than the strategic objectives, including the strategic priorities, also part of this strategy are very clear and very objective indicators of measurement, a very clear framework for implementation, monitoring and evaluation, so evaluation, a very clear indication of the impact report once a year, so a very clear public consultation with all possible stakeholders that talk about participatoryness, so this, this document, so 181 comments, etc. and finally as a clear basis for sectoral documents. [[I'm sorry.]] Thank you very much, I apologize. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29928	...we're strong, we've been through a lot of my fault. It's my fault, but you have a lot of replicas so you can stay. - Mrs. Crescent. It's a pulac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29929	Thank you. I'm going to take this opportunity to ask you or comment, so I think we all agree here with the wish expressed in this document for an effective public administration. However, here is how hard we have tried nowhere in this document we have found no reform of local self-government or territorial reconstruction. You also mentioned Plan 21, mentioned there, HDZ in its pre-election programmes, is often referred to by Mr Karamarko and ministers from this government. However, here is the strategy until 2030. No mention of and reduction of 556 towns and municipalities and number of counties. How did we see and in the analysis of the situation it is said that a large number of these cities are and the municipalities are assisted areas, as many as 12 counties of 20, so what do you think about it?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29930	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29931	Yeah, like I told you, so...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29932	Answer, you can answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29933	Thank you very much, Vice President. As I said, this document is made up of four, so it makes it, it's based on four developmental directions, 13 strategic goals and with corresponding priorities. One of the strategic objectives within the first development direction is effective judicial and public administration. So this document is the basis for making sectoral documents. This isn't an operational project, this document. This is a strategic document on the basis of which sectoral documents are being produced in different sectors and, among other things, in the public administration sector, and of course after that, the public administration reform that you were talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29934	- Mrs. Crescent. Katica Glamuzina.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29935	I thank the chairman. My colleague Bedekovic, since you mentioned me, while we're already pushing the max to the finish line, I said more than 10 years ago, so the moment your former prime minister ended up in prison, if that's what we're gonna talk about. So when the SDP came to power, it took a little more gas fire, and only then began to plant a new forest. That weird thing, you've had a past term, you claim to be better, so show that you're better, so do it in time if we talk like that and repeat the election results again. Yeah, HDZ won, we all congratulated you, you're in power. To be clear, you received 16% of the total number of Croatian voters, not much of the plebiscite support. The largest number of Croatian voters stayed home and it is an embarrassment to all of us together.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29936	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29937	Well, I'd take this more as your comment than any question. I don't see you asking me any questions, if you did, I'd be happy to answer. But I'll just comment, you just said do it well, unlike you, we'll do it. Therefore, the National Development Strategy will be adopted and will be followed further. I'm sorry you didn't ask me a specific question, so here I can't answer... It's all right. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29938	- Mrs. Crescent. It's a ben.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29939	Thank you. So here's the first comment, if the national strategies really were implemented in Croatia, then you and your prime minister today would know that there were some strategic development frameworks before this and that this is certainly not the first. But since it's irrelevant anyway, one of your colleagues in 2031 will ask or say it's the first strategy that we're working on. However, I have another question. So, the bases we paid the World Bank 32 million kunas they were made, they were done more or less correctly what could have been expected, far too much that they were overpaid to say this given that it was about compiling data and recommendations. But what is interesting to me is that on the pages of Strategy 20, 30 are these bases published in English and I really ask you to explain to me what is possible that in 32 million you don't care to separate 100,000 let's say that these bases are translated into Croatian rather than published in English so that one significant part of our citizens He can't read or understand them. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29940	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29941	Thank you very much. See, as far as your first comment on the so-called strategic document is concerned, the document you're talking about is not a long-term strategic document he's made for a period if I remember well, if I'm not wrong from 2006 until about 2013, so it's not long-term but rather a short-term strategic document, and in that sense, I can't agree with you that this is not the first comprehensive strategic document since the creation, from the acquisition of independence of the Republic of Croatia and if you're going to compare it, and you can probably find that former document somewhere, too, you'll see that it's not so comprehensive and does not cover all areas like this, but on the side as you said, so on the other side it's not that it's no longer a topic, it's important that I have a draft in front of me, so we all have a proposal of a national development strategy. And as for the background, I don't see any reason why they don't either. If necessary, and if anyone is interested in translation. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] But as far as participatoryness is concerned, take a look. statistics on participation in the public debate, and that's all, so that's proof of participatoryness. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29942	I have to give my word further, I'm sorry, Mrs. Bedekovic. Mrs. Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29943	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, Bedekovic, you said that the national strategy also sets priorities for the use of European funds and that is where you specifically underline investment in people. I would join because by investing in people we are essentially investing in a competitive and innovative economy, in global visibility, with people we can get an effective and effective judiciary, public administration, that is investment in healthy, active and quality life, in the development of sustainable tourism. We know that man is the key to the success of all these activities. However, we must not forget that we need to pay particular attention to environmental protection, our sea, our water, our forest, our soil. So when it comes to the use of European funds, I would also place an emphasis on environmental protection alongside people.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29944	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29945	Thank you. Thank you very much, thank you colleagues here for this observation of yours, of course, with the protection, with investment in people protecting the environment is one of the important priorities of this government and now and in the future, and so I said at the beginning of my debate and stressed that one of the important challenges that will mark this decade ahead of us, which will include the application of this strategy among others are climate change, which is therefore investment in the environment, therefore sustainable development as one important, important moment for which everyone, therefore the problem, is facing the whole world globally, so Croatia and, of course, of course, should pay attention to this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29946	Mrs. Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29947	Dear colleagues, you spoke of this document, I wonder if it will be a good basis for further programming as such, so that all those funds that we have, which we have, which we have actually received, or rights on these funds of more than EUR 24 billion, can really use quality for what we need to develop our society.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29948	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29949	Thank you very much. Of course, I have emphasized, and here I am not only, but in all, almost all the discussions so far, this document is therefore the basis for making sectoral documents at least 16 and equally the basis for withdrawing European funds. I repeat, we currently have a little over EUR 24 billion plus resources for earthquake-affected areas. And this is exactly the basis to avoid making mistakes that were made at the beginning, so at the time of the government that I was talking about when we had one, I would say debacle in the area of agriculture, had dealings with OLAF and, of course, experienced actually one great inconvenience first because of the lack of a strategic framework, documents, and then because of the conditional incompetence.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29950	Thank you. And finally Mrs. Ljubica Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29951	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues in your debate you have touched both demographic revitalization and a better family position. We are aware of the negative demographic trends of course today, but this is one of the biggest challenges of modern Croatia. We see from this development strategy that existing but new demographic measures are also being formed which, of course, aim to improve the situation of families, children and young people. Of course, demographic policy is not isolated from other policies, the effects can only be expected in synergy with other policies, especially with economic policy that will create better conditions and, of course, faster growth. And also demographic recovery is a prerequisite for better and faster economic growth. Surely by applying all these measures we see in the national strategy, we will speed up and improve bringing young people back, of course, and families with small children to those rural areas [[Intruder: Thank you.]] as well as those deficiting professions [[Thank you very much.]] I'm sorry. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29952	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29953	Thank you very much. So the negative demographic trends are not the problem facing only Croatia, but unfortunately, almost most European countries, and this particular government has put the issue of demographics at the top of its priorities and the issue of demographics has begun to be seriously addressed. The main Council on Demographic Revitalisation, the application of demographic measures from the very beginning of the work of this government, so I am talking about the government in the past term, so these priorities set out here in the strategy are the continuation of all those measures that the Croatian Government is already doing, from maternity, parental benefits, child benefits, the achievement of the balance between family and private life, etc. I don't want to pick them up. So we had a situation that for the first time in nine years this government in 2017 raised maternity and parental benefits, for the first time in nine years and continued. So these are all measures that will show its effect in the long term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29954	Thank you very much. You've been exhausting and clear. Thank you. And now it's Mr. Zeljko Pavić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29955	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I have to admit, there are some things I don't understand. This morning, the prime minister called us for a consensus, a large majority of the opposition is trying to draw attention to things that are not good in that document, and now you're convincing us that we're talking nonsense and that everything inside is good. And even moreover, here's what I had the opportunity to hear, we're calling for 2011, 2005, 2007, I have no idea what year, people, when we're moving from the video to the strategy. The picture of the situation implies the current state, not the historical state. And it would be good for someone to listen to what I'm saying now because it refers to his argument. I wanted to talk about the problems in this document, primarily as regards the IT strategy or the IT area and the IT sector. I talked about it already in the economy today, and nothing happened, and there was no change in the assembly that something changed in the document, even though the remarks really came from the IT Association, they came from people who do this job and people noticed that these problems exist, no one reacts to it, and you want to bring it to a consensus. How? We really want to have a healthy and good discussion, so let's apply what we need to change and change in the document itself. In the IT section, IT is mentioned only in one place and in the part that it will be invested in information and communication infrastructure, but nothing is said about the development of the IT sector. Digitalization is mentioned almost in all areas, which means that JT study is actually nowhere. The second problem is, since IT is in all areas, there should be both the objective and the indicator of the achievement of the objective in each area. Proposers rely on the Desi in the document, and this is the aim of achieving the European average. We think that we should define exactly the starting points and then measure what we have achieved in that part. We want to digitize the entire economy, we want to make a transition, and we don't have the right measures, we don't have the right KPI, we have to change that. If we are talking about digitising a particular sector of the economy, it is evident that digitisation will be carried out more easily and faster in larger and financially powerful business entities and the question is what will be done with small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Will they be available to consultants, will they be at their disposal by people who know the problem and will they be able to pay the funds in the same way as large and powerful financial entities? In that part, I think we should call and help invite people from our associations, so there is HGK, an IT Association that really knows what's going on in Croatia, what's going on in the environment, and we could actually help create a better document. It must also not be lost in the light that only by including all sectors in digitisation will it be possible to make a transition to new technologies that will result in new products and services as well as new means of supplying or purchasing these products. And note, this should not only talk about the introduction of e-business into companies, but also about the introduction of information technologies and in the COR processes of companies, which is a prerequisite for transition. Among other things, the document also identifies some trends in IT, such as the Big Date, which is a really old concept, but on the other hand they did not recognise other significant trends such as. Face Learning, Smart Learning, and they don't even mention them. At the same time, for the areas they have mentioned are forecasting use, predicting processing, predicting introduction and use, but do not provide for the training of experts to process such data, for example. a large given engineer, a large given analyst etc., etc., although there is no such direction at all in our universities and universities, there is something on two Algebra universities as a course and at RIT.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29956	Thank you very much. But stay still, is it Mrs. Devereaux? Romana Nikolic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29957	Thank you, Vice President. In your presentation, Mr Pavić mentioned that in all priority areas there should be both the objective and the indicator of the achievement of the objective in each particular area and that when assessing the digital transition of society and the economy, the proposings should rely on the Desi and you think that this is not good. Why do you think it's not good, and do you have your own proposal to assess the results for the strategic goal?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29958	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29959	Namely, the promoters, as I said in their presentation, are calling for the Desi and the goal is actually to achieve or reach an EU average. Let me ask you, here's what happens together if three members enter the EU that have a very low index and the average falls. We want to reach the average. What if that average is lower than our current index? So we don't have to do anything at all? So the goal is, it's getting a little funny, it's not good. And we have our indicators, we have research done every year by the IT Association at the Chamber of Commerce in cooperation with the company Absulon that deals with this business, and based on this data, we can actually get concrete numerical data that will help us actually follow it all the time as it introduces into our industry.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29960	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. Thank you very much. And now it's Mr. Marian Pavlichek. He's gone. He's losing his right. Mr. Ante Kujundzic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29961	Thank you, chairman, respected ministers, respected secretary of state, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The key document is in front of us, we say in general without clear definitions and some indication of the realisation of the parameters themselves set for the period until 2030, and I believe that the action plans will actually be those that will define the realisation tools by which we will actually see both the quality and the strategic objective of the strategy mentioned. And here, dear God, let's see her purpose in 2030. What I would touch is actually rural areas. In fact, it is more or less clear to all of us that the state is as rich as the rich village of course. In Croatia, however, the largest and richest part of the income does not come from the village, and unfortunately it does not come from the city, but from the emigration of Croatia from the signs of displaced Croats. Ironically, we've originally moved out, and now we're living from displaced people. Well, for years now, life in the Croatian village has been said by us in my Imotski "unde". Now that's a "unde" I would like each of you to explore and think and to answer. The migration of rural areas and the definition of the reasons for the migration should be a key starting point in defining the strategy itself. There's a lot of examples, but I'd tell you next. In particular, for the last few years, all newborns, all small Imogenes and Imogenes who were born in the birth certificate for their birthplace, stand the shares of Zagvozd highway – Dugopolje since the property birthplace as such is closed. Something similar is happening to the court in Imotsk, so of course I'm not counting. The Croatian village, starting from the Dalmatian toughness of our Dalmatian Zagora to our flat Slavonia, has not been developed in quality and is nowhere near the level of the standard that all those living in urban areas have. I mean, besides transport infrastructure, it's the same in the field of all social content. In fact, the inaction and sin of the failure of all governments over the last 30 years has resulted in one form of a strong depopulation of the mentioned areas, and a kind of economic devastation of all those plants that existed as such. Hand to heart, we're a country where nobody's guilty of anything. It's no one's fault that the robbery made those who managed all these plants rich and destroyed the lives and future of all people in the worst years of their lives and left them together with their hopes at the beginning of the bankruptcy process. Strategy in the context of strategic objective number 5. In fact, as a key point, it defines healthy life, and at the same time clearly does not define what is most necessary, and these are the quality parameters primarily of food and water in Croatia, and on the other hand, the analytical starting point of the mentioned goal is not but should, above all, be the number of cancerous diseases and on the other hand the cause of the same, and the multiple number of infertile couples in the Republic as one of the possible reasons. The concrete moves can be withdrawn there are countless of them. If we look back at France, we will see a subsidisation of life in the country through electricity and other communals. A special subsidy for the launch of family economies, the subsidisation of travel expenses for those working in cities up to 150 km from rural areas. All of these are measures that, if they were to be incorporated, given that they were not already included in the strategy itself, I believe that they would be incorporated in part in the action plans that would result from this National Strategy. They should result in the return and experience of the Croatian village. In addition to what I have stated, I could continue to list a whole series of other measures introduced by someone else. However, I will conclude, instead of a proud and rich life, the Croatian village has won the battle for bread bark. I believe that this National Strategy and all the action plans that should come from this strategy will bring our Croatia, our villages and cities in a state that will not be “unde”. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29962	Wait, wait, you have a lot of replicas. Everyone from your club will be able to continue the debate. First it's Mr. Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29963	A colleague, Kujundzic, a national strategy, 100 pages of 30 million kuna paid, many strategies that have been made and the goals in this one are probably positive. However, neither Split nor the Dalmatian Zagora is mentioned, nor Imotski, nor Sinj, nor Knin. They only mention it in pre-election promises that promise billions. That's why they shut down maternity homes, which is why they can't hear the crying of the dick, but it's also embarrassing that the same Croatian government before the 3rd year. in Split, she promised infrastructure projects for the hinterland for the Dalmatian Zagora, such as the Imotski Zagvozd-Imotski road, such as Sinja's merger with Split also, Vrgorac tunnel Ravca-Drvenik, Knin joint on and Drniš on the highway from there to now from the promised 2 billion kuna in Split. You know how much a colleague of Kujundzic's achieved, zero kuna, nothing, nothing. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Fellow representatives from most zeroes, nothing from Drnis. From Imotsky, you there. [[Intruder: Mr. Bulj, Mr. Bulj]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29964	Please respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29965	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Bully, to all that you've said, I'd actually add a little over 65,000 people to the whole of Dalmatia who have been sent home for legal robbery of bankruptcy proceedings at the worst age. I mentioned the information for my property landscape, you know very well, of course, the data for Sinj himself if we take into account "Cetitka", "Dalmatinka", etc., etc. If we talk about this national strategy, I still believe and, above all, to God dear, and then to the Croatian brain that we will try to get at least something good out of this strategy through action plans. If this strategy is similar to the one that covered education 2016. I think it's just gonna be a dead letter on paper, so here's the warm hope we're gonna be in 2030. all to inherit and consume and live in a much better and much fairer Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29966	Thank you very much. The second line has Mr. Zvonimir Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29967	Dear colleague Kujundzic, 2018. IPSOS has made one survey in our emigration and what they have found in their report is that they have stated that corruption and these scandals that we have the opportunity to witness these days are the main reason for eviction from our Croatia and that these are not economic reasons. How do you comment on this economic model that happened in Croatia that just such scandals and expelled our young people, here's our age of eating, now living abroad in the diaspora, and then these same young people, or people living outside Croatia, are sending signs to Croatia that are about 6% of GDP as much as economic growth was? How do you comment on such a national strategy economically in which the scandals of corruption drive our youngsters out, and then these same young people from the eviction fund the growth of the economy in Croatia, here in the queen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29968	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29969	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleague Troscott, it is true that in the last 30 years. We Maltas do not testify on a daily basis about various affairs. It is equally true that within these affairs there are individuals who, as individuals, actually participated in a particular form of whether robbery, whether or not any form of what you have stated is less important. But what's important is that it doesn't stop, with the same practice continues today, and in the end, when we look at reality people have chosen this kind of policy, people believe this policy, here's what we do to make it fair and honest. I believe here is that everyone who sits here actually that and warmly hopes here that we're all on that same, same trail. What is necessary is the change of the complete system. Today, in these days, in particular at the County Court in Split is a competition, I am alive interested in, for the judge of the county court, equally in Zagreb there are certain indications for the setting, here I am very interested in the time that is coming whether we will actually be witnesses of something that is true or we will actually go back to what we started with, which is that again someone will be staffed and set up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29970	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29971	Dear colleague Kujundzic, you talked about various models of how to actually keep people in the Dalmatian Zagora, in Lika, in Slavonia, in what can be invested, what to do. I don't know if you're familiar with the fact that, for example. Here is all our county, Split-Dalmatia County, for example. gives about 400,000 kunas a year even more I think Split-Dalmatia County as a help for heating up our socially endangered families. Why wasn't it going towards installing microsolars to those socially endangered families that they have the possibility of being energy independent, and not every year from the county budget to allocate funds? We also proposed a law like that, we pushed it, eventually they accepted some of it, but obviously there is no vision in which direction to go, how to make people energy independent and how to keep them in those areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29972	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29973	Thank you, Chairman. Unfortunately, social aid recipients in our Croatia receive social assistance among other things and help in heating, and that I personally know the oxy of them coming from this area that neither S is from the social community, so this is the first thing we should legislatively regulate and put into one frame of what is just and fair and what would actually be acceptable to all of us. And as for the answer to the second question, if my goal in my life is to make my daily life better than the one I lived yesterday, then I will surely find the means and tools to do so. So if someone in this country's goal is to change a certain state and make it better, make it more transparent, fairer, whatever, we're certainly in these 30s. We could find various, various tools to do the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29974	The last replica of the esteemed representative Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29975	I'll talk to you later? So when they... Is there a difference between theory and practice he said in theory there is no, in practice there is. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So here is what we witness if we compare what is in this strategy with what the rulings are doing in concrete legislation. You are talking about agriculture and the Croatian village, so I will ask you about the following example. I see in this strategy how it advocates strengthening quotes "self-sufficiency in food production through the development of bio-economics and the conservation and restoration of eco-systems and biodiversity", it sounds wonderful in strategy theory, but what happens in practice, at the same time, they make legislative proposals that make it impossible to produce their own seed, which is most often ecological, which will destroy organic production, and the emphasis will be on the import seed that we now import 900 tonnes a year against which a number of our OPGs are rightly rebelled. So how do you see this discrimination between strategy theory and law-making practice?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29976	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29977	Thank you, Chairman. My colleague Rasudiæ, if we are talking about agriculture itself, it seems to me in Split-Dalmatia County for just over 79,000 hectares of space that has grown into a low-growing area, therefore we are talking about tourism a key branch that should be monitored by tourism is agriculture, food quality, eco-growing. The problem is the colourful nature from the very hair part to the irrigation of the field within the naturally Dalmatian mountain itself or throughout the Beautiful One. What I would look at and avoid is a question about theory and practice, and I consider a key question, so I personally have 11 years in marriage, I don't have kids, I know one of six of my friends who have a similar or same problem, so the problem of food quality, the problem of air quality, the problem of water quality within the Republic of Croatia, I don't know why someone's not in order to regulate because we all inherit what we inherit. I'm afraid the future won't be a problem for us to leave because the question is whether or not we're going to have someone leave without a little pathetic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29978	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Vesna Vucilović.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29979	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I hope you don't mind the mask, the rules are the rules, it's the order, right? I'm going to continue to be where I stood up for the club because I don't care about everything in those ten minutes, so I decided to continue in an individual discussion some kind of strategy summary. We often speak in the Homeland Movement that the countries are a little too much with us and that it should still be less because it regulates both what is and what is not needed, and this strategy also points out that the presence of a state in the economy is important and will work to improve productivity. On the other hand, we see this kind of political staffing, and then it leaves room for doubt that something positive is going to happen, and this finding of productivity improvement is becoming a bit tragic. It is stated further in our strategy that the administration at local level does not have enough capacity. What does that mean? We're going to hire more people in local self-government units, and the question is, when do we know that there are too many of them in this too many units of local self-government? It is then stated that the technological sophistication of exports remained low, so a beautiful syntagma which basically speaks so eloquently would be said to be low wages, so our export product is competitive. After that, it is said again that we are too dependent on tourism, our economy depends on tourism, it is something that we have heard at least a few million times because in us, the rental model has led to perfection, there is no movement and we see that we still somehow rely more on exporting services than on exporting goods, although it is far better, it has proved more durable in this crown crisis. This strategy has touched demographic trends and challenges, envisioning a reduction in population to 3.4 million by 2050, European strategies say we will be in 2070. 3 million people. The share of residents is increasing as well as those over 65, but also those over 80 years of age. So says the strategy, it will be resolved by the return of people, by attracting entrepreneurs, workers and talents and by demographic renewal which sounds very nice, but the question is why we haven't been working on it for the last ten years because the last moment is to reverse these demographic trends. And that can be, that's what Poland and Ireland have shown, so one smart policy can turn these negative demographic trends, but first it has to have political will for it. In addition, exactly the areas that record particularly negative demographic trends are also among the poorest such as Slavonia and Baranja where I come from, so GDP per capita in Osijek-Baranja County is 9,000 euros, and in Zagreb 20,000 euros is essentially too much centralisation that has led to these huge imbalances. The fight against corruption on the half-page, strengthening the international position on several pages, it also speaks out on priorities. The part relating to the strategic objective of 10, sustainable mobility is very interesting in the segment relating to railways and transport infrastructure as if it was written by someone who has never been on a train in Croatia, so the fast train from Osijek to Zagreb on the section next to Koška village is going 60 km/h, and recently the train was on fire right before Našica. There were 50 passengers, a bunch of students, high school students, and it's a miracle nobody got hurt. Our trains are slow, insecure and extremely unreliable, if we were in Japan, there would probably be no engineer in the month. Fortunately, in our culture, delay is not exactly a problem. Also, work on these road corridors is going through some weird dynamics.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29980	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29981	Thank you, Chairman. ...in this strategy and in the end I'm just going to say that basically all of this needs to be brought down to 500 units of local self-government, and that's what I'm hearing a large dose of reserve, because I just don't see until all this is done we're probably going to start working on a new strategy as it started. And it wouldn't have been bad if we had a brief review of what the strategy for the previous period had come to us by 2020. Let's say at first, here's a suggestion for a future strategy. Tell me first what you've achieved through the last strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29982	Here's two replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29983	Dear colleagues Vucilović, analyzing this strategy and its economic part where you are much more professional than I have noticed one thing I would like you to look back on, which is the lack of an important component. It's said by 2030 about economic growth. However, we lack labour. And the strategy doesn't indicate where we're going to get that workforce. Do we have any strategic thinking if we're going to import this workforce by looking at it as a gaster who will then go or as people who will move there, how it will integrate, what experience of Western Europe, where we're going to import that workforce, whether it's going to take care of possible easier integration from certain cultural circles or from some others, etc. It seems to me that all this story about economic growth is missing without this segment of labour that has no word. So how do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29984	Thank you, dear colleague. I'll tear you apart. You've detected the problem very well. Not only does Croatia record extremely negative demographic trends, but certain analyses that EUROSTAT does show us that we are not an attractive country nor for migrants, nor for migrations so that we cannot expect a positive balance from migration either, and unfortunately from natural growth, which brings us into a very unfavourable position and further puts us under the questionnaire and the activities on which it puts a constant emphasis such as tourism for which there is not enough labour force or construction where, without import power, they simply can't function when there is some normal size of business if we don't count in 2020 when, because of the core crisis and these activities, they recorded mainly tourism negative trends. It's not here. And without any better measures, it will be difficult to reverse.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29985	Next replica, Honorable Vice President Miroslav Skoro.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29986	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Dr. Vuciilovic, you said at the very beginning that there was too much state in everything. Here are 13 strategic goals in this strategy. The three strategic goal is particularly interesting. He says: “Efficient and effective judiciary, public administration and management of state assets.” Our country's strategic products are both jam and chocolate and a lot of things that simply the state shouldn't be interested in. How can you in two minutes if that is possible or the minute you have that you can comment on the relationship of this strategy especially to the management of state property?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29987	Well, thank you very much for asking. We have seen from the report on the completion of the state budget that the state mismanages its assets, because the proceeds from that property are very low. The state is not a good master, and these strategic companies also choose in a strange way, and then chocolate and vegeta are strategic products, and let's just say ignore an Immunological Institute that would certainly be important in this situation. We see that the Slovenians who have retained, they are already developing the production of vaccines and are working on it and our immunological without huge investment is simply where it is, we can't expect any shifts. And the strategy says that the state is minority, it has its minority stake in a large number of companies, and it usually goes to you to call a competition, no one answers, and then here's the fill of some kind of technicality, but there's no real political will to get rid of it, so that there's some kind of working stock or something like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29988	Next individual debate, distinguished Vice-President Miroslav Škoro.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29989	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished ministers with an associate, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. There's a lot of hours. I'm sure we'll stay in this assembly for a very long time today. There are two more points of the agenda waiting for us, and here we are, which I am the twenty-five. They say there are 77 individual debates on this subject, which means it's of great interest. That's what I was talking about in one of my replicas some time ago, because not all of those factors, the essential factors that should be involved when it comes to such an important document, are not involved. And we should bring this by consensus. This is the national strategy of our country, Croatia. It's a national strategy that ensures the future of all of us and our children. That's what we should be trying to do when it comes to a document like this. However, it did not happen either in the debate, nor in the preparation and thus see how divided we are and how in fact this strategy does not do what it is supposed to do, to travel our country's path over the next 10 years. It would be normal to talk about a strategy that will track us for a long time, and then from the left and from the right, everyone will do what they can to realize the goals that we will set. I'll talk maybe a little differently because a good part of all our laws and initiatives sort of kicks in the implementation. The key to all ladies and gentlemen is actually an election law that has been changed on several occasions, and the result is that citizens choose lists. That's not what we're talking about in this strategy. And actually because of this way of voting, citizens don't know who their representative is in the Parliament. Since the common list cannot be held accountable to anyone, even MPs in the Assembly do not answer to anyone except possibly the party president who put them on the list. So, in the foundations of our democratic system, we have disabled the key definition of the value system, which is responsibility. There is no responsibility because if the MPs were to answer to the electoral body then the government would have to answer to the assembly, then the ministers would answer to the government, then at the end of the line and the administrations of state firms would answer where they should be held accountable. And without responsibility, no system works, so unfortunately neither does this one. What I want to say is that after Ivica Racan's leadership in Croatia, people from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have taken over and important implications are contained in this fact. In fact, the economy is not a focus, it hasn't been for the last 15 years, and we have a situation that the current prime minister is making this document and speaking to the public like the government is never going to change. And yet he guarantees waving like I do now with my finger that there will be no change. That's only two ways possible, but I'm not gonna go from this pay phone to that subject. So, we're led by people who are formatted in diplomacy and have never been in the real sector one day, nor understand how the economy works, the economic system because they've never hired anyone, fired, produced, sold, paid, paid taxes, raised money to pay the workers at the beginning of the month. It is not surprising, therefore, that over the past 15 years, we have not created conditions for growth, development, employment, the retention of young people because the prime ministers did not understand or perhaps they were not simply interested. A major failure was made because the focus was placed on EU membership on time, not on the opportunities it provides. The national strategy must restore trust in the system and restore hope for a better future for us and our children. Trust is gained by the choice of people and by people with credibility, and hope stems from a brave national vision and clarity about the achievement of such a vision. In addition, it is extremely important to define and promote a system of values for the start-up of society. As long as there is a system of values in Croatia that friends and relatives celebrate when someone goes into a fake pension or gets another unfounded state advantage until then we unfortunately have a society that is sick, and the state should also be returned to this national strategy and to all our efforts especially common in this assembly and should be returned to the people. Here's how much I have.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29990	We have two replicas. The first is the distinguished representative Vesna Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29991	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Vice President, you have touched an interesting topic, which is a socio-political framework, which every student knows is also one of the important factors when it comes to the economy. It is precisely because of this part, and mainly because of our judiciary and the situation in the judiciary that Croatia is among countries that are not interesting to investors and therefore investors bypass Croatia, and it is not that they are not there. And we talked when we join the EU we will be desirable, but why, let's say, this is Serbia that is not attracted to far more foreign investment than Croatia is currently attracted to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29992	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29993	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, Vucimilovic, if I knew the answer to that question, I would probably get the Nobel Prize for Economics. In fact, it's a paradox of Croatian politics, it's a paradox of the fact that we live in a country that is truly God's day. We live in a country that has the conjecture to be more competitive than its environment, we live in a country that was more competitive not only than its environment but also in a wider area but also in Romania and Bulgaria and Slovakia and the Czech Republic. So all those countries that used to be able to only blow our necks came to us. I was talking the other day about this captured deep state where I actually elaborated the fact that an independent choice of judges and state's attorney is the key to the whole problem. But until it is resolved, corruption and clientism will reign further ABC, whatever but Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29994	Next replica, distinguished representative Daniel Spajic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29995	Dear Mr. Scoro, here's in this so-called. The strategy of national nowhere is not mentioned much of the pension system that is unsustainable with us. According to the European Commission projections by 2060, the number of pensioners will fall from 4 to 2, with us now the current situation is that we have 1.2 workers per pensioner with the fact that what I was saying last week is that in Bani, the situation is 1 per to 1 now. I think it is something that is unsustainable, and very important for the Croatian state. So how do you think that can be solved and is there even a solution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29996	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29997	Thank you very much. You know you're absolutely right about another question for the Nobel Prize. With us, the situation is that 1.2 is employed by 1 pensioner. In countries where this ratio is far more favourable 4, 5 employees on 1 of the pensioners ring the alarm when it falls to 3, there is unfortunately no one doing it in a way to see in the future the possibility of repairing it. Fixing anything in any country depends solely on two things. One is the development of the economy, and the other we must define and continuously promote the national system of values because the nations are known for their values. Unfortunately, we have become a nation without identity and unfortunately a nation that is being watered in such a way that the number of workers far exceeds that unfortunate number of 1.2 per pensioner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29998	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Martina Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u29999	Thank you. Dear MPs, I will now take advantage of the opportunity to talk about social welfare. The strategy says that the role of the social care centre as key actors in social policy will be strengthened and their role in social planning will be improved in order to develop the availability of necessary social services in the local community. Special attention will be paid to reducing public powers that are not in close connection with the social care and standardisation and professional treatment system, with the provision of appropriate working conditions and the permanent improvement and control of the quality of work of professional workers, so the text in the strategy is. Similar phrases have also been given an opportunity to listen to and implement the social care centre’s work programmes as set out in other countries, then taking what is good but ignoring our opportunities and the context of the work and organization of our social care system. We constantly have the idea that the role of the social care centre should be strengthened, public powers reduced, which are not closely related to social care. Every minor reform related to strengthening this institutionalisation meant an increase in the work of professionals in welfare centres, but in that part of the implementation of administrative procedures, rather than in strengthening the role in social planning and better availability of professional workers in personal contact with users. What was well imagined was the separation of certain payment from the social care centre, and primarily concerning the exercise of rights which are solely based on the skills of the health care centre. For example, a full-scale allowance is a right where it does not depend on household incomes or personal disabilityes that can also be achieved by persons who are employed. The current number of users burdens the administration of social workers while at the same time a social worker cannot commit himself to persons under care, guardians, families in need, persons with addictions, persons on accommodation, the development of foster care and the like, all that should be done by a social worker in the community in the adult department. The most growing number of persons with disabilities and extras for help and care. That's how we had it in 2017. 27.141 user while in 2019. This number came to 35,145 and the number of users of the aid and care allowance during 2017 was 67,579, and during 2019. has reached 78,326. It is necessary to make a decision on the organisation of social care in a way that the centre truly becomes a key actor in social policy, which in its jurisdiction will have the strengthening of extra-institutional services. For example, the Ministry of Labour, the pension system, family and social policy conclude contracts with accommodation service providers or non-institutional services. The centres are informed of this, but they have no control over the work of these service providers, and in accordance with the Social Care Act solutions are made on the recognition of services to users. Cases that occur with fatal outcomes in homes are the result of poor supervision of institutions to be carried out by employees and ministries throughout Croatia. Countys are competent to adopt a solution on the approval of work to provide accommodation, they also do not have the authority to monitor work. Often, bad work is reported by a certain legal person if certain actions and reports to the police and a police survey of police officers and an examination of people who are directly dependent on accommodation on the care of the service provider are not born to any fruit. The competent ministry has ordered reconnaissance and control of the facilities, which is insufficient because such post-accident approach has not led to improved concern. The main prevention is if it responds on time. In any disputed case, the suffering of certain elderly people is being found out that there have been earlier reports, but these reports have not been adequately handled. It is incomprehensible that, after a brutal violation of human rights, such homes and unobstructed work continue to exist in the disputed homes. It is undeniable that the elderly want to stay in their homes as long as they can and it is necessary to develop extra-institutional services, the accommodation capacity is insufficient and there is no one to worry about the old and the powerless. Something has been resolved through the social care centre's solution, and something through the project "Learn", but it is still not adequate and accessible all users. [[Intruder: Time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30000	We have a replica, the esteemed representative of Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30001	Dear counterpart Vlasic Iljkic, I can only express hope that all this which the strategy promises nicely about social care will happen in practice both in legislative and political terms. However, some worrying examples are already being seen, and I will return to this story of discrimination between the theory of strategy and the practice involved. Let's say when we talk about those who need community support as a society, not just individuals in social care, but here's an example of the development of assisted areas, while at the same time in the legislative framework of the earthquake of oblivion on Gornji Stubic, which is an assisted area, which has completely fallen out of focus. Here they can only express hope that in the overall system of social care and people who need support and areas that practice will not be so, even though the indications are worrying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30002	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30003	Well, I'm also skeptical... solutions to the social care system. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The social care system really needs to be radically changed, it is as such extremely administrationed and turned towards actually solutions and administrative procedures to approve money aid, but it is not focused on the support system that needs to play the role of the social care centre in the community.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30004	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30005	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs. Sorry God of money, sorry God of money, I don't have any other words to start this 5-minute address in HS. 32 million kunas are smashed into this 142 - page brochure, of which when we reject graphs and these some visual images remain in half the way. And the fact that it remains comes down to some combination of earlier lists of good wishes, and all together it's set up by flossulas and a European new speech with all the challenges, a vision and new hit words are resistant and low carbon. So we read about sustainable tourism or low carbon tourism. There are also reasonable things that are soundly reasonable and clear to every expert from the relevant areas, but it is the discovery of warm water, things that most or less everyone has been saying for 20 or 30 years. In short, you charged 32 million kuna for the hot water canister. Every word costs 100 euros round as a holy letter, it would be said that from every word God speaks. This strategy would have been more low-carbon if you had planned less in Dubrovnik, Zadar, Opatija or St. Martin's at the Mura for unintelligible spas by thinking about the discovery of warm water, and there were meetings, seminars, workshops as you yourself say. What's with all the working teams, all the big meetings, weekends, consultants? All of this when it's added up again, I don't know how it got to 32 million kuna. In this country there are people who work for 3200 kuna, this strategy cost 10,000 people's salaries, these 142 pages of hot water. For what? To compile general places? I have to give our Prime Minister Plenkovic credit for the courage, although perhaps a better word would be indiscretion. I admit I wouldn't have the courage to go out in front of the people's representatives and the Croatian public and say this is us, this is worth 32 million kuna. Presenting several ministries in cooperation with the Parliament and professional and general public could either do it for free or be broad hands not for one tenth, but for one hundred of your stated prices. So, not for 32 million but for 320 thousand kuna could be done with diaries and round tables and reviewers if not much better. I would like to remind you that this strategy was launched by Minister Žalac, and delivered by Prime Minister Plenkovic. The story started in 2017. Too bad you didn't jewelry her with the appropriate pictures, so you're this story about removing all institutional weaknesses, quote now "The institutions of the state will be organised. They will be managed in a way that will contribute to the quality of policy stability and that will be effective, predictable and just for the functioning of the economy. Too bad you didn't put a picture of Mrs. Roman here. You could have put Mr. Tušek next to the section on public administration, and the picture of Mr. Žinić quotes "effective management of state property". At the same time in this canister, hot water is missing major problems. The fundamental problem of Croatia when we talk about the uncertainty of the coming year that Croatia is within the framework of which they manage, and our fates in that boat are unbehavied and incompetent people. I am talking about the EU falling apart whenever the problem of the economic crisis arises, from Greece to further through the migrant crisis where Schengen fell apart, where we long as to enter the current state of vaccines. How did the United Kingdom manage to vaccinate 10% of the population and the EU less than 2%? Is it clear to the Prime Minister why the people of Great Britain voted in favour of leaving the EU? Why is this not in the strategy that we will be more resilient and low-carbon in this climate framework? The strategy rightly follows the story of climate change although our contribution to greenhouse gas emissions is negligible, they are undeveloped. But let's not mention whether by 2030, an eco bomb will be disposed of in Marine or what will happen to the Pishkornica or the Jakushevec that is close to us. Come on, promise us by 2030 he'll get rid of it. Play climate change. We're too small to play any important roles here. Or instead of pursuing this sustainable mobility, let them say when the road will be completed to Sisak, to Koprivnica, to Bjelovar or from Sesveto towards Dugi Selo we drive on a road from 1938. That's what we need to talk about. Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30006	A few replicas. First respected representative Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30007	Thank you, Chairman, Mr. Sanader. Dear colleague Rasputic, perfect vision, perfect paper state or perfect any action plan for the recovery of any area necessarily depends on political will and political will. How much do you think within the Republic of Croatia the political system looks like the functioning of an Indian tribe that grabs the prey, so share it with each other. And if you think this analogy is similar, do you think or specifically how you think that within such a political climate, any reforms can be implemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30008	I think the fundamental problem is the lack of responsibility, political responsibility, responsibility for citizens, and that is one process of democratic maturation, it will not work overnight. We must speak loudly to the citizens, see what they have paid 32 million kunas, and then develop a consciousness. I have no other way especially that this final product lacks some basics. Where is the strategy, say, seismically resistant Croatia? Now that we have this experience. Where micro solarists are, but let's say we boast on the one hand that we are the best in the EU for all statistics on violence in society, but we both promise to introduce these beatings against hate speech. Why is it when we have such a good condition? Or, for example, part in Bosnia and Herzegovina of Croats in BiH is soft and pale, which is one of Croatia's fundamental strategic issues. Therefore, the priorities set are unclear both for them and for how to measure implementation and there is no new idea.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30009	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30010	Thank you. Dear colleague Rasputic, you have mentioned some of the actors of these affairs that we have witnessed in recent days. But as strategies mean to us, which means that this strategy is well written, you explained nicely that if key people in the country are sending us messages that someone with intent was recording someone. Instead of commending whoever filmed someone in an attempt to bribe and commit a crime to praise that person for their courage, to encourage therefore possible whistles, because the only way we can actually fight corruption to see where this system is vulnerable, what happens in public administration, that we are fighting it, and that people who show it is encouraging, and not that it is, that we are actually sending them a message that the problem is in them if they report something.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30011	Well, here's the thing you say I think they should have been in the strategy, too. So the corruption index in our country is clear, year by year, what our strategy is to fight corruption. Well, between that and the relationship and the politics, I'd say to the public, to the so-called. whistles. We're coming back to this fundamental relationship between theory and practice. Constitutional and legal experts say the constitution of the Soviet Union was extremely democratic on paper, and, of course, after that, none of it was implemented in political practice. I am therefore afraid that this overpaid strategy will eventually remain a dead letter on paper, and that it will not be able to valorize itself because the instruments within it are not enough to see what has been realized by it, and which is not and who is responsible for 9 years why this double 5-year-old is not or will not be realized. I would personally like it to be different, that we can say that it was accomplished and more than promised, as Stalin said the 5-year-old was accomplished in 4 years. I'd lead to that, but this doesn't look good.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30012	The next replica, the esteemed representative of Zvonimir Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30013	Dear colleague Rasdic, I have a question for you. I think that about a few years ago in 2017, together with several European cities, we were in a contest to move the European Medicines Agency. That agency moved out of London, but unfortunately we didn't get that candidacy. The foreign ministry's statement at the time was that there were some documents missing, but some general impression was that we as the City of Zagreb and as a state of Croatia were not ready to accept, for example, 5,000 employees and all those families who moved from London. My question is this, do you think that in this national strategy 2030, it is clear that Zagreb or Croatia will prepare for such a project in the future and will such infrastructure be ready when, say, one Zagreb is the only city in the EU that does not have a railway to the airport?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30014	Now we've come up with one more thing that's missing from the strategy. We are constantly positioning ourselves within the EU as some kind of recipient of assistance. So someone who needs to care for the EU, not someone who is part of the EU and who carries part and business and responsibility in the functioning of the Union. I would like to see in this strategy, let's say, thinking in this sense, and among other things which institutions can be placed not only in Zagreb but also in some other parts of Croatia, which I think would be good for the EU, and especially for Croatia and in the function of opening jobs that it always carries. Unfortunately, there isn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30015	The last replica of Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30016	Thank you very much. I'm going to break down how much contradiction there is in this strategy they don't know their number. Here we can only list a few, just a few within as you said about one sentence of EUR 100 is minimum paid, and basically when you look at that strategy then you will see a relationship to sustainable development or a relationship to the Dalmatian Zagora, and also to Slavonia. No significant project promised by the government of the Republic of Croatia is in this strategy. That's so general, I know this is a strategy and that the goals are set, but none are. For example, I will tell you the basics, the mention of biodiversity is mentioned, and that biodiversity will be encouraged at the same time the same government forbids by its law, by proposing a domestic indigenous seed. This is hypocrisy, this is a waste of money, and who knows who?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30017	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30018	Here you have said yourself earlier, in the replica I pointed out this as an example of the contradiction between what is stated in the strategy, the strategy was not created within a week, I guess it is worth it and that 50 years has been working on it, but at least since 2017 it has been officially working on it, and then during this process of writing the strategy is passed or proposed laws that conflict with what they stand for in the strategy. This example of domestic seed is the best example, and I don't think it should go any further than that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30019	Next individual debate, distinguished Rada Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30020	Mr. Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, here are the long hours that the opposition will again be charged with not being cooperative, not suggesting anything, this is still a significant national document that requires a consensus, but the question that you asked us about is a consensus and how we can give a consensus on a document that in our vision we would not know about if each of us were asked to repeat, but that vision can be signed by both Finland and Hungary and any country and, however, it would be good if that vision were sustainable. Why is this vision not sustainable? In fact, someone said on the document it started working in the '17s during whether one of your ministers was. The minister who no longer has Ms. Žalac, and because I quote this directly, was that Croatia had serious problems defining the priorities of the EU funds negotiations. And here today when we speak Mrs. Bedekovic said we do not understand that it is a strategy, that it is just a basis, that it will be done according to different priority areas of other strategic documents, but she said like this, interestingly, the basis for her to say 16 documents and withdraw EU funds. So, would we have this strategy if we didn't withdraw European funds? Whether Croatia deserves a strategy where there are very clear priorities, and not as boredom that every other year or every year we change our priorities in agriculture, whether we plant olives, and not next year they are vineyards. What is it, in order for here, to make our beautiful as you claim, and it says that it will be ambitious and clear, please what is in this clear? I chose one area that I don't think is talked about today or this way I'm going to do it, which is revitalization, so demographic revitalization and a better position for the family. Here is the passage, demographic recovery is a significant prerequisite for future economic growth and the stability of society but the effectiveness of the current economic policy and the unlocking of the potential for faster growth and convergence towards European income are also necessary and inevitable components of favourable conditions for demographic recovery. Whoever wrote this must have told you how smart I am. Everyone we wrote sometimes and when we were supposed to write to the EU we wrote just like this wonderful syntagms unlocking potential. So we're not talking about language, so we're ambitious, but if we're clear, we're not clear. What we're talking about, for example. in a very important area for Croatia, we have heard that we will be 3 million by the 1970s, how it is possible for someone to write such a sentence that the content, so other than you are, which language is seductive and does not mean anything, tell me about the content, demographic recovery is a significant prerequisite for future economic growth. Well, I guess economic growth is a prerequisite for recovery. You have a little later, so you claim to create a favourable environment for a stronger contribution to the diaspora. Well, for 30 years, the mantra has been a diaspora mantra except for some unusual transitions, which has been about diaspora, and now you're citing a new diaspora, so you're saying that they need increased activity of diplomatic consular offices to focus on the Croatian emigration that moved away 5 or 10 years ago. So did they move out 5 or 10 years ago because it was in power that same HDZ that must have made it possible for them to now expect them to return and invest with their knowledge or their capital. What you've done is make sure that diaspora doesn't go away, that we don't have a new diaspora if you haven't been able to get a more significant diaspora contribution in 30 years. And what I'm really interested in, you think it's encouraging, is mostly about encouraging the return and immigration of Croats. Have we seen anything here about our migration management policies, this space in 10 years or 20 places for others?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30021	We have one replica, Mr. Sinisha Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30022	My colleague, Boric, you have observed well that the national development strategy is mostly based not on funds, so not ESI funds, so I am interested in commenting on this one correlation if we know that so far, so Croatia is actually the last or the last one in the inability of the European Funds, only 40%? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30023	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30024	Well, you know, when we always mention it then, because I'm not in your party, so I can't say that during your government, even less, what's very interesting is that it really seems, okay here we're talking about the overpriced basis, the question of how long we're going to keep not only agreeing to be a margin, and here are the colleagues who have talked about what impact we can have on this Europe to really show resistance to the crises. For example, at the presentation of the strategy itself last year, The prime minister said that one of the reasons is to say that we will deal with a new crisis, with the Covid crisis. We didn't see anything here in this document. We cannot be told the expectations that some other documents will bring all this. This is really just a text written so please let someone here explain this passage to the citizens with all the syntagms that are unsustainable.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30025	Next individual debate, distinguished representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30026	Dear Mr. Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I can agree with a lot of what's been said here today and accept the explanation of the minister who says this is a framework. It is not a problem that this framework is a national development strategy and that it is contained in this material. I have a problem with something else that I don't have implementing plans, which is why I don't have plans for sectors or points at strategic, strategic objectives. That's, that's my problem that I'm not, I'm not impatient but three years late and now we have no idea what the national development strategy will contain. And I think that I have reason to doubt that and this morning's Committee on Labour, the pension system and the social partnership. Namely, there is said not to go into a new pension reform because we went back a step after the referendum untenable but we withdrew the provisions of the law back, returned to work until 65 years, but that the basic problem of the Croatian pension system is, be careful, a large number of early retirement workers and the average work of Croatian workers from 30 years of age. Internship. And I'm telling you that it's, that it's a bit of an accusation as well as in a covid crisis, the citizens are guilty of not following the instructions, and they're guilty here because they have to ic 5. Previously on Retirement... and making life for this retired 12%. That's why, and those who went in the meantime didn't have them, who had more, they had more penalization left. And those in the pension system, these early retirement workers, they get into pension system 38.5g. The staff, so the people with the most training they're putting into the pension system are the biggest problem. You have wondered why Croatia and why Croatia even has the famous average of 30 years. The training of all pensioners? Oh, my people, you know we've been transferring all disability pensions to 65 since 2015. old-age pensions. Every pension that is transferred from disability to old age in the retirement category is less effective because the average disability pensions are 21-22 years old. an internship unlike those of old and early age. They not only introduce less training but also reduce the average age, age pensions because they are not and when it is presented to the European Commission she says that, you have to ensure longer stay in, stay in the world of work and solution we go to work up to 67, and we have not studied what statistics tell us. Furthermore, you have 174,000 citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are receiving a pension from abroad. Maybe 10% of them are proportional and we know how much they receive from abroad. The rest of them, so about 150,000 receives two autonomous pensions, in Croatia for 15, 17, 20 years, from Germany, Austria, Slovenia for the other 20 years, two independent data. We're talking about their internship and their incomes, we can get something through the tax administration, but not everything. We don't write down the data anywhere about their internship, the entire internship, and we treat them to be 15, 20, 21. how they have years of internship in Croatia when they create the first conditions for retirement either here, or in the second, in another country. This is not how it works, we have to say exactly that we are a specific country with a large number of workers working abroad and receiving pensions and it is not a meaningless sum, it is about 4 billion kuna that enters from abroad in Croatia every year, almost 10% of the pension, pension budget. But I'm not talking, I, I, I wish it was more, but I'm talking about the truthfulness of the data we're going with towards the European Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30027	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30028	Honored Chairman, fellow MPs and MPs. This is not the National Development Strategy Croatia needs, Croatia needs reforms, and there is no reform in this document. Three pillars of each state are institutions, space and people. Our institutions are weak and abandoned, we've devastated our space, and people are leaving us disappointed in the state's institutions and policies. Croatia needs a development strategy that changes this state, and this document is not. The answer to Andrej Plenkovic was unworthy when he asked me to make concrete proposals because he is certainly not interested in even hearing, let alone respect them. Imagine really the chances that this and this kind of corruption compromised government and its parliamentary majority accept any of the anti-corruption proposals and anti-corruption measures, and the odds are non-existent. But I present these proposals in the interest of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian public to whom I wish to tell what our National Development Strategy really should be. In the opening statement, I stressed that the concept should be changed, and I thought that four developmental directions should be defined differently, and that the proposals and ideas within them should be organised differently. And by referring to graphics on pages 26, 27 and 28, I will suggest very concrete what and how to change. The development direction called "equal regional development" may even remain, but provided that the strategy clearly states that Croatia undertakes to reform the territorial structure by joining the counties in several logical regions that will be functionally, geographically and developed as a whole. Territorial reform is a starting point for all others key to this reform logically linked reform, and it is also an unfortunable prerequisite for achieving all those finely-arranged sentences which the other MPs called a mere list of good wishes. This strategy cowardly flees from everything that really matters, which is why its goals are unfortunately unreal and unimplementable. There is no balanced regional development that is referred to as an empty floscule in several places if there is no territorial formation of regions instead of unnecessary 20 counties. Secondly, the development direction called "strengthening crisis resistance" should be renamed to redesigning institutions, reforming electoral legislation, reforming public administration and justice and strengthening anti-corruption bodies and tools because it is resistant to the state that is strong, but strong in the power of the rule of law, strong because it is rational, economical and effective, all the opposite of what is now our country. For a short period of time, I'm only going to make a few concrete suggestions and only in the hints. Full fiscal transparency at all levels, full disclosure of all payments and payments from all accounts of public authorities, the establishment of a single corruption prevention office that will deal with the issues which are now in the jurisdiction of the Committee for the Conflict of Interest, but the DOV and DSV. Out of the DAV and DSV membership, remove two parliamentary deputies, change the way the Supreme Court president and the attorney-general are elected, change even the Constitution in the section of which the mandate of a state lawyer is defined to four years, with the possibility of re-election in such a way that the term of office is longer, but without the possibility of re-election, and all with a view to reducing the impact of the policy on the independence of the judiciary. A developmental direction called a sustainable economy and society, I propose that we turn it into a title that would better reflect a change in the role and attitude of the state towards the economy, assuming that there is no political will at all to change anything compared to the existing concept. The main problem of Croatia is that this concept has not changed significantly in relation to the social policy arrangement in which we have been to the collapse of Yugoslavia, and this concept is more or less the same or tragically similar in policies on both left and right and red and blue. The Republic of Croatia owns 1,100 companies that are both financially and economically inefficient and serve primarily as a disposal of political similar personnel that direct public resources into party pockets. The number of these companies should be significantly reduced and maintained only what is strategic for the country, infrastructure, transport, energy, forest and water. For companies that remain, control of governance and accountability that does not exist today, as long as the ratio of public companies in the economy is as it is today, and the way in which they get jobs with these companies is too difficult and corrupt, there is no sustainability, let alone development and progress. The role of the state should be to establish a clear, solid, reliable legal framework, so we need a strong state in the area of justice and free and summer entrepreneurship in the area of the economy. Only such a state can generate greater accumulation of funds to finance quality social and public services. The last area should be the development of civil society and here we will talk about more investment in education, science, research, innovation, culture and sport. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30029	We have two replicas, the first distinguished representative of Rada Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30030	Dear colleague Oreshkovic. We probably won't agree on how we see the economic framework, but we will certainly be around the legal framework, and I'm afraid your colleagues, it's a miracle that someone didn't replicate to you when they tell us that we're not proposing anything from your entire list to make it look like a strategy that could at least prevent corrupt actions in the future. Well, I'll give you a chance to tell you that... how it's going to be in some other documents, that this is still just a frame and it doesn't have to be so detailed. But we do see that we do not see any foothold that will guarantee that not all strategies and all documents are just covering up the story of corruption. But I'll give you your minute to do something, see that it's a custom and others, and how you have no one to support you say something about civil society.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30031	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30032	Thank you, fellow Boric. Well, the problem with this strategy is that despite having 150 pages, it's actually completely missed and empty. The fact is that after this strategy, it is planned to work a whole series of others who will be equal to those without content, who do not have clearly defined objectives of the implementation deadline, and then cannot even track what is actually being carried out. My specialty is the fight against corruption, I've talked about what needs to be done several times, and it's clear that this government will never do it then. And as for the development of civil society, I think that this is not sufficiently talked about, I think that we must, first of all, define in a different way how we will fill the state budget, how we will spend it, and how we will monitor its spending, and without strong civil society, we do not actually have that power controller that is complemented by strong, efficient and independent institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30033	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30034	Dear colleague Oreshkovic. Look, it doesn't matter what chapters are called, what they're going to call strategic goals is content. So of course, like you and me, it bothers me when someone speaks to a technologically dynamic export-oriented society. I would say that before we have to resuscitate the imports when we've already destroyed the exports, at least one large branch that was export-oriented. Of course I'd like to know as soon as possible what the national plan is to come to an effective public administration and justice, I'd like to know. So, I can't and the Priory says this isn't good, I tend... I can do it for sympathy, but it doesn't matter which title I hang out with if I don't have the content. And here I still don't see the content that's my problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30035	So I agree with you the problem is content, but the content needs to be organised somehow, so I told me the most logical thing to do is to be an institution as one pillar, an economy as a second pillar, a civil society and everything that is a system of social security and public services as a third pillar, and that's how we get the whole, so it's in all other decent and well-organised states and societies. And the problem with this strategy is that it's just one nightmare, one chaos, there's no thinking system, there's no vision, and there's no knowing what chapter to put under, under which title should be put at all. This is if we are talking about a sustainable economy and society in this chapter, the construction of a society based on the rule of law is listed. That's not the place. And so I can talk about every chapter that simply contains something that should have been defined or worked out elsewhere. That's what I was talking about. Here is a missing concept based on which the strategy was written and created.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30036	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Ivan Penava.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30037	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable state secretary, respected colleagues and colleagues. The national development strategy of the Republic of Croatia should be the strategic roof document of each serious sovereign state that seeks to fulfil its basic tasks. They should be roughly under the number one development, protection and prosperity of their people and all inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia and under number two a comprehensive strengthening of all their potentials, capacity and competitiveness. If we are to be honest and to say that the motive for this strategy was to create a basis for using the financial envelope for the period 2021-2027 speaks sufficiently inconclusively, how much we take ourselves personally but both our people and our own state. Because this is how it turns out that Croatia defines its strategic development direction dominantly in the context of the use of EU grants. That's humiliating. This is what serious people, serious statesmen and serious states just don't do. EU funds should be a tool to help us, an excellent example of how the Republic of Croatia did it, but to make it our main direction, the main tool is simply embarrassing. And that's what I'm talking about when I'm talking about the Republic of Croatia, which has built its own path in immeasurably difficult circumstances despite the bad odds, despite the inability of the International Community, but recognising and relying on its own forces in the middle of the war. This way of leading states, thinking strategic policies, the state is deeply humiliating to anyone who is thinking strong and sovereign Republic of Croatia. Discussing the details of this document is simply pointless, because I personally saw extremely good documents, strategies, plans. Unfortunately, however, they remained a dead letter on paper, since there were not enough serious people and serious policies to carry them out. I made a decision for this attitude the other day, more precisely on Saturday morning in Makarska drinking yogurt for breakfast and watching the yogurt manufacturer believe it or not, good yogurt, a good product came from a dairy shop in Sabac. It immediately occurred to me, and I remembered an excellent idea, an excellent document and it was about connecting blue and green Croatia. We talked about it for a whole decade to finally welcome the situation that we don't have our yogurt in our hotels, but we drink here in this case yogurt from the Republic of Serbia, which I also commend. A very similar situation of production, oil processing INA went into the hands of the Hungarians. Is this a strategic product and a strategic production branch for this country? I won't even mention it to the calf, because I'm afraid there's not enough authority in this country, sufficiently sovereign to ask that question at all. Is it a sin to have a telecom in a sovereign state and to control everything that a telecom today means? Unfortunately for us, Coronal, we had a situation that we had a lack of yeast. We had two yeast factories, one Podravka, one Plivina. Sold to the French, the French last closed two years ago. And now I ask you, is yeast a strategic product for this country? Does anyone dare ask the French how do they get the right in our country to shut down that factory? I'm afraid not. We don't have that kind of person, and we don't run that kind of policy. In short, we wait for leaven from Europe, we wait for masks from China, we wait for containers from Europe. Here's today, we've also got a flurry with a vaccine next to a decade of agony with an Immunological Institute. We've brought the state down, unfortunately, to a mere colony and protectorate. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30038	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30039	The very fact that we have respected colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed Vice President, that in fact we have a strategy in the debate can be a cause for, it could be a cause for congratulation. But I'll stop there, because we're late. We've been late a long and too long. What is important, however, is why we are late and what is important, and this is also the issue of implementing ourselves, because this means that, in particular, the counties will most likely have their development strategies at the end of 2021, and it has to be done already, so during 2020, we had to make decisions that are related to extending the current old strategy. This is true, it happened in some of the times discussed, but it was settled because it was at least adopted, guidelines were adopted for the development of the strategy. So I don't want to talk about political color, but the fact is it doesn't start from scratch, something starts from something, and here it turns out that we're starting from zero, which is still not true. If we were to talk about consensus, there was a lot of talk, but that was said by a lot of colleagues before me, but then I would like to focus on the part that is related to public debate and not only in public debate but also through social dialogue, etc., there were words here about a lot of objections, but also a lot of suggestions and suggestions. Most of the answers when you analyze from the competent ministries were that all these remarks were standing, that they were ok, but that it would be the subject of a strategy within 79 documents that must be brought and produced by various ministries. As a rule, it can mean my concern to move on to another one, so much for the act itself. And on skepticism about this production of these 79 documents, I mean a lot of things, and I wouldn't want to repeat myself in that debate. The World Economic Forum, which is the body as it is, says that the shareholders era has ceased and that the strikeholders era has come, therefore, to all stakeholders, and not only the part that is in charge or has capital. I mean, in the process of this adoption of this strategy, we acted as stockholders not as steakholders. As regards the very proposal for a strategy as a text, the proposal is neither formal nor a comprehensive document. It is the impression that it has been made by the Ministry of Regional Development for the purpose of withdrawing EU funding and is so flexible that it can be de facto defined that the list of free wishes with each wish being justified, each of us having dreams and desires, is just a question of how to realise them on the basis of some real possibilities. There is no list of data sources here, and the literature of the list of tables, maps, no description of the methodology of production or the list of manufacturers of external participants and their references and descriptions of their duties. There is no initial analysis of demographic movements and projections, no economic analysis, no analysis of the position of the state geostrategically observed among other things, no explanation of how strategic objectives occurred and in particular no explanation of how these objectives were set, there is simply no and why these values are defined as defined therein. And as I said before, I repeat, it's like we started from scratch. So before that, we had absolutely nothing, and there are no starting points, reviews of previous strategic documents and their conclusions. It's not like Croatia didn't have them in the past, it had them. So here's what I'm going to conclude because I see that I'm running out of time, with just one more thing I'd like to say in that constructive part of my debate that we should still get a little more involved in realisation, even if these strategies are what counties are or what's NUC3 level. about which there's very little to say here. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30040	He has a replica of the esteemed representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30041	Dear colleague Fabianic. Of course, social dialogue is very important in the development of these national development strategies, we will talk about another institution that has mandatory membership tonight, but it is not a social partner, social partners are employers' associations and trade unions and these more-level associations are invited to work here in a way that should be respected and take responsibility. And as for that second part of your presentation about demographic movements, I must say that I doubt the strategic goal here that speaks of the expected number of years of healthy life for men and women. In fact, under these conditions of poverty, small employment that men and women will be 64 years of healthy life in 2030, it's a little excessive, six more than they have right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30042	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30043	I agree with you. Otherwise, there are some within EUROSTAT that is exclusively cited in this national strategy, which is why Croatia has managed to fight in the past, although far away from pushing the EU to increase the age limit, but because of our experience, we have managed to defend ourselves precisely in the part in which it is said about increasing the age limit for retirement from 65 to 67 and I think that I have answered everything to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30044	And the last individual debate by the distinguished representative Zdravka Busic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30045	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honors Minister. My colleagues and colleagues. Here I will try to be brief, but I just wanted to say a few words about the part of the strategy relating to strengthening the position of Croats in BiH. So let me just say a few words about that part of the strategy. So the strategic objectives set out in this document are also seen in the context of strengthening the integration of our countrymen in the neighbouring country with the Republic of Croatia. Both the government and the parliamentary majority have been through, and this mandate has shown commitment to this goal, and we have made a special effort to return the issue of constitutionality and equality as a theme to important European and global forums. I'd say if we were in it, I'd dare say here we were more than successful. It was done much more than in the term of any previous government. Unfortunately, I am saying and underlining this issue of the political position of Croats in BiH for years has been out of focus of the international community, among other things, because here I have already said the previous governments have not shown excessive sensitivity to this issue of exceptional national importance. With EU and NATO membership, Croatia has been given the opportunity to sensitise the International Community for the Croatian Issue in BiH for what the government of Andrej Plenkovic has given special attention and taken decisive steps in this direction. I recall that at the level of EU foreign ministers, at least twice, and once at the level of the heads of state on the agenda, there was a question of BiH's electoral legislation or imposed member of the BiH presidency, Željko Komsic, which is recently I hope you will agree almost unimaginable. I don't know if you can imagine the effort our diplomacy and other services must have been made and how much we had to invest to achieve it. I was at the Foreign Ministry, so I'm also a witness to how much effort it took. First of all, it was necessary to realise that the fundamental constitutional principle of BiH's three people's constitutionality is, unfortunately, more than ever, more than ever. Representatives of Croats in key political bodies have re-elected someone else that I do not need to stress specifically against the fundamental postulates of every democracy. Today, the European institutions of the state are more than ever aware of the difficult situation of Croats in BiH. Thanks to our engagement, the problem of the inequality of the Croatian people in BiH, the UN organisation recognised as a violation of fundamental human rights, which is also witnessed by a periodic report for BiH, the UN Human Rights Council of 2019, with which BiH must be brought into line. With the successful EU Council presidency in the first half of last year, Croatia gained additional reputation and additional influence that strengthens our efforts on the political position of Croats in BiH, and we will continue to have this issue in this term in focus both the government and the Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30046	The first is a respected representative of Rada Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30047	Dear Mrs Busic, since you mentioned it yourself, of course we know that you worked at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs I would like to say that there is no here, where you see Croatia for 10 years regarding the policies of migration and the population, change and change. So how do you even see a policy that we haven't really heard a word about how we're going to manage migration?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30048	Thank you very much, ma'am. Comrade Boric, let me follow the subject. I am also engaged in the Council of Europe, as you know, so Croatia will, of course, coordinate, I think, until now, coordinate and try to comply with all the postulates and the Councils of Europe and the European Union on this matter. So I'm sure we won't have any problems. And here's hoping you and I will follow that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30049	The next replica is the esteemed representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30050	Dearly replicated to you since I am a member of the Committee on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. You said previous governments did not show excessive sensitivity to the political position of Croats in BiH. It bothers me that the HDZ as a political party has shown absolutely no sensitivity to the corrupt action, the corrupt omen of Dragan Ćovic, whom you so extend in every possible and impossible way. And as long as that is the case, I believe that the political position of the Croats, as well as their standard of living, will be worse and worse in spite of the significant political resources from the RS budget, which is set aside for BiH, and often the way it is done can be interpreted as a specific form of vote buying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30051	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30052	Thank you very much, ma'am. I really think that this government has done very much to improve the position of the Croatian people and that is absolutely irrefutable. In addition, on an international basis, we have made the issue visible. I am yes, thank you very much, you are also a member of our committee. I think that you have also made sure that during the last term, the government has taken a really big step in this regard and that the issue of the position of the Croatian people, which I am currently talking about, has really made it visible and we have some results.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30053	And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Ante Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30054	Honorable MPs, you said one sentence of consciousness. It is certain that this government has done much to raise awareness of the Croats in BiH, and certainly according to the policies of Zagreb that were in the former governments. And certainly, in the government of Andrej Plenkovic, there is a great burden and credibility that works for the survival of Croats in BiH, how important it is for the Croatian state, for the strength of our people in BiH and for sure that our colleagues, as well as today, would have to be conscious and with full respect truly understand what it is to be a Croat in BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30055	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30056	Thank you, dear colleague Deur. Yes, and here I am sure that you are aware of this position and I am sure that both our colleagues and on the other hand are aware, and if we do not yet, we will insist on that emphasis. Indeed, the position of the Croatian people is very, very unenviable. And we've been watching for decades how and how their representatives are elected by some other voices where it's actually inexplicable, inexplicable to many diplomats. Believe me because I've tried many times while I was at the Foreign Ministry explaining when you give one, one, I'd say a plastic example then it's clear to them, but still these people, it's just a big burden for them, it's a too complicated question for them, so I really hope now that we've taken a big step forward and that we'll also have support for our agents. in, in opposition and of course, and we will be, we will persist in that regard. [[Intruder: Time]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30057	Final debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, Honorary Representative Siniša Hajdas Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30058	Thank you, dear vice president of the assembly, dear colleagues and colleagues. I don't think that over an hour and 45 there was enough just esteemed colleagues and colleagues from the SDP Club to point out the lack of this strategy and actually those key answers, a better word not given in the strategy. So, which is the Croatian society tomorrow, which is a society of 5 or even 10 years from now. Although, he would dare say, under the quotes of a normal country, they even find it hard to work a strategy that is actually longer than 5 years. Because the world is changing rapidly. However, I will stress in these last four minutes a few things that should improve this National Development Strategy, but rather what it did not recognise as the key development challenges of the Republic of Croatia. First of all, for me it is a problem of resource-location or actually a problem of space management leading up to the fact that Croatia still has a very large share in the service sector, and, unfortunately, in services with low technology and low productivity, it means that it is also a processing industry, that is, tourism, that is, our country's weak business capacity is still very low in our greenfields of direct foreign investment in production, and I will especially stress with emphasis on spatial space accommodation because precisely investments on spatial distribution may be able to respond to some demographic or spatial problems that Croatia is facing. Another was education that all empirical research shows that only a larger share of qualified human potential can shift that range of production opportunities, can raise investment levels, which can ultimately lead to higher economic growth. Croatia unfortunately still has one of the lowest shares in human capital in tertiary education, which shows therefore our problem is in education and all relevant international tests are signed by Tims. The lack of attention or attention to early and pre-school education and primary education is also evident in the strategy. There is also no emphasis on full curricula reform, and I will say that it is neither recognized nor recognised the importance of civic education, and it is crucial for you to develop not only civil society but also for the development of all inclusive institutions, and believe me that without inclusive institutions, in fact independent institutions, there is no development of Croatian society. Furthermore, we did not quite notice at the SDP Representatives' Club that several concrete development challenges were mentioned. So, the issue of urbanisation not only in Croatia, which is related to urbanisation in Europe, we know that it will continue if we remain in this, in this corner, in this box, continuous reduction of therefore Croatian rural space. Secondly, I haven't noticed a postulate called "smart cities", so it's today, it's not even tomorrow, so it's not recognized in this National Development Strategy. Not enough emphasis is placed on research, development and innovation, as most of the countries in the neighbourhood have skipped us, and for example Poland, Slovakia, Hungary and Lithuania, which were at the same level as Croatia in 2016, have skipped us, and without innovation and indicators such as scientific production, new trademarks, industrial design and patent are pushing us to the very beginning of the EU. What about tourism? Is he our holon curse? Is he our grace? Or I didn't actually see a clear answer to how our tourism makes it more innovative and how half as just slowly to solve great seasonality and, in fact, to reduce those picks that then happen in the Croatian economy. And finally, there's no answer here that we as Social Democrats, I'm going to say, perhaps the most economically troubled, and that's actually a tax burden or how to place a greater burden on capital, property, and less burden on work. Therefore, the Club of Representatives of the SDP will be against this watch, which is called the National Development Strategy. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30059	The next debate is on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30060	Dear colleagues. I listened carefully today to the debate of all the MPs, and here are the details I chose to end. On page 29, the section on maintaining macroeconomic stability says "the important priorities will also be the development of the financial markets and the City of Zagreb as a financial centre", and further says "the information and knowledge of entrepreneurs on different sources of funding from loans of European funds to the capital market, funds markets, venture capital and finetech opportunities will be actively promoted Zagreb as the financial centre of Southeast Europe". I ask a question, and how are we going to do it if Zagreb will remain derusive and flimsy as it is now? And this will remain due to the failed model of reconstruction by which the state will conduct public tenders and conclude contracts with contractors for the restoration of private-owned real estate. It is a model that Turkey no longer applies. Finally, I would like to say that from what we have seen in the way this strategy was created, as it is written, it is clear that this document is being brought about for Europe, so that the form is satisfied not because the rulings care about the development strategy at all. And it's neither the first nor the last, nor the only document to be brought in to coordinate any needs that come from Europe. This suggests that this government does not have a compass, has no own goal, has no governance urge, has a desire to survive in power and rule because such an approach allows public finances and all other public resources to be used as some form of a food chain. These are all the resources for them to be put up as bloodsuckers, and so we'll get to another four missed years as they've been missed and lost for decades in which HDZ has managed the state in the same way as it is now. If in one word you could tell us what to do, it is clear that from the implementation of this document there will be nothing, after all it is so badly understood that there is no God knows what to implement, these words would be education, education and then re-education, even though all the time I am saying that the first step Croatia needs to take is to build and strengthen institutions, especially independent and control state bodies. It will be very difficult for such institutions to perform their role if there are no educated citizens who will play the role that the civil sector has in democratic societies. And to do that, it is necessary to make strong investments in people exactly, first in those people who actually form an education system, which are teachers, scientists, teachers, teachers, teachers who transfer their knowledge to some new generations. On the one hand, I'm afraid that if we don't take some big steps from the generation that eto controls and runs it now and we won't benefit much if we talk about what we're doing in some next ten-year period then we need to put all our hopes into generations that we're going to start educating in a different way now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30061	The next final debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30062	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Parliament, honourable ministers, state secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the club, I would like to sum up, or I would like to sum up what we had today about the National Development Strategy, remove all the criticisms that came from the opposition and show once again that this is a quality, good text that will in practice mean vision and development of the Republic of Croatia by 2030. This is a roof strategic document with a long-term vision, a systematic and strategic step in planning. This is the first time we have a 10-year development strategy. Over 2,000 people participated in his work, worked for three years, the World Bank made the bases in these folders, there were talks about the Slovenian strategy, the Slovenian strategy by 2030, there are about a similar number of pages, the backgrounds were made by the OECD. The Croatian National Development Strategy was done by the World Bank, the strategy itself by Croatian experts. The cost of everything paid for by the EU, therefore there was no saying that there were any problems, and also those funds were used for 16 analytical bases to be used for 79 other strategies. The vision in the National Development Strategy was highlighted in 2030. competitive, innovative and secure country, recognizable identity and culture, land of preserved resources, quality living conditions and equal opportunities for all. We have also clearly explained four development directions and 13 strategic objectives. At the heart of everything is investment in people and a quadruple helix which connects on one side the government or the unit of local and regional self-government, entrepreneurs who have a very large share in the strategy, academic community, research and development, higher education and civil society, there have been some criticisms and there are also some descriptions of the role of civil society. That quadruple helix puts investment in people in focus. Here I am now following the mail of the assembly I have not seen a single amendment of the opposition to the text which just says that the text is good, that the opposition has not all day worked out whether it is something extra or that something needs to be completed. And the best thing that says that this strategy will produce something concrete that today is the European Commission's statement, which approved EUR 2.9 billion of public support for 12 Member States for the second Pan-European Innovation Research project, along the value chain of batteries. The 2.9 billion-euro project includes Croatia. One of 12 countries is Croatia, this will allow state support of EUR 100 million to Rome, new jobs, battery research, and this will be one of the contributions to research and development where we said that by 2030 we want 3%. Thank you Minister for bringing this project to an end, this is the success of the government of Andrej Plenkovic, thank you and the Secretary of State Memorial Đurić, the entire team at the Ministry of Regional Affairs, the project has started as long as I was Minister, the minister has finished and it is the success of Plenkovic's government. Someone said this strategy doesn't talk about the economy because Plenkovic is a foreign team. This project and projects like this deny it, employment projects, social inclusion projects all deny it and clearly show that Plenkovic and his government have a vision, he knows how to make projects, and ultimately the latest polls show it where 31% of citizens support Andrej Plenkovic in the crisis. In accordance with this, the HDZ Club will support this document in a warm way, and we believe it will be the basis for any further planning in the country for the next 10 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30063	The next final debate is on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club, the distinguished representative Tomislav Tomasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30064	Unlike fellow Pavic, who says that he has not heard absolutely anything on this side of the assembly all day, I cannot agree with it, even quoted sentences problematicly, even quoted problematic goals, about the pension policy that we do not talk about, but I do not know... What amendments, what amendments can be submitted to the strategy, I don't understand. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] Okay, on behalf of the final, finally on behalf of the Green-Left Block Club, I'm going to say one last thing, first of all, about the problem that we've come up with this bad document that we've been waiting for 3 years. [[Intruder: Please do not communicate with each other.]] So for more than 3 years, we've been waiting for a national development strategy, and we've got goals without a strategy to achieve them. More than 30 million kunas cost, and we got a picture taken by experts from an international organization. We have been waiting for more than 3 months in the assembly for an announced debate on this strategy and are waiting for us to be involved in the finalisation of this strategy after a public debate, and now the prime minister has not included a call for consensus. So 75 MPs are opposition, 76 in the ruling majority. So you've only got a few votes, a few thousand votes higher than this side, and this side you've completely ruled out, and you're looking for a consensus. You've had three years as the government of the continuity of time when you say that you've involved thousands of people in the creation of this strategy to include parliamentary political parties, to include the parliamentary opposition and you haven't done it, and now it gives us a strategy to take or leave how can this change formally, let someone explain to me. How can this strategy be formally developed in the assembly? It can't, so take it or leave it, and a consensus is required. That's the problem. So at least at this final stage, if you weren't in 3 years, you had 3 months to include us after the comments from the public debate came, you didn't want to. Why? Because you know, and I believe that it will be so unfortunately, that it will be an empty letter on paper and that it will be nothing from the implementation anyway, and that is why it did not allow you to deal with the parliamentary opposition. In my view, it is a shame, regardless of what I heard this argument, regardless of what money is paid for the foundations from EU funds, but also from the state budget with 15% co-financing, it is a shame for me that the national development strategy of any European country is based on an international organisation such as the World Bank. I can tell you this as someone who as a consultant in his 20s worked with over 30 countries of the world, worked for more than 10 international organisations, I can't imagine honestly at a symbolic level, not a problem of money and what that money could go second from the European funds in Croatia was spent, but what the problem is a symbolic level. I can't imagine a single European, Western European country that would allow itself to prepare for the development of that country in the next 10 years for the World Bank, I can't imagine it. And from that perspective, what is absurd is that the strategy in its introduction says that more domestic capacities should be used, more self-sufficiency, and already at this symbolic level has not exploited its domestic capacities at all institutes and colleges, but at the symbolic level at the first step has decided that the analytical bases for this money are done by the World Bank, in my opinion, but at a symbolic level it shows that there will be nothing. Also, in the board of directors so much, no, I don't know who isn't on the board of directors, all trade unions, Croatian Chamber of Commerce, Croatian Chamber of Commerce, HUU, HUP, Chamber of crafts, all living and one representative of the parliament, of course, from the ruling majority. So you had time to include us, that you wanted a better strategy, that you wanted a real consensus. And I'm sorry that it didn't come to this because if we had a real consensus, if we had the opportunity to improve this strategy then we'd really have something that everyone agrees on, and that would now be in a position or in the ruling majority, and maybe you'll be in opposition in a few years and us who might be in the ruling majority, or we'll be in opposition to stick to it for the next 10 years. But it didn't happen, you decided it that way, not us. And that's why I'm sorry, and I think it's a shame because one chance has been missed, perhaps one last chance for the country's developmental turn. I can now speak to the content of what bothers me from the objectives, I can talk about how this strategy is not even in line with the Strategic Planning System Act, it has no financial effects, it has no strategic projects, it is even contrary to the article of the law that says it should be adopted in the assembly last March. I can talk about the problematic goals of privatisation in health, education, amazing how you said that public enterprises should be managed and that they are unproductive because they are corrupt. So who's responsible for it? But what's the problem, the biggest problem is that the chance to develop this country's turn is missed. [[Intruder: Time.]] I should. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30065	Next final debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30066	Here, in the end, you might say that I am impressed by the ignorance of our fellow former minister of representative Pavic, who says the opposition has not given a single amendment to the strategy. No amendments are made to the strategy. And you have repeatedly repeated that, which is why you say it that way, I have no idea, I just know that 32 million kunas have been spent on this strategy in which it's written, I'm going to repeat a few important things that will easily be compared by citizens who listen to this. You say that you are for biodiversity and everyone supports it and it should be in the strategy and it is located, but at the same time the Minister of Agriculture is in the procedure of the Law on the Ban of Autochtonic Seeds on the Market, it must be modified as they draw you there your bosses, so it must be size. Is it a strategy for us to remove domestic indigenous seeds which would be an advantage, which would have been an advantage, not the other day just a good river of spices to buy imports now that we're not self-sufficient, you can play tennis after two years. Personally, as far as the environment of sustainable development is concerned, there are absolutely goals written, this would be written for a lot less money, nothing there is specifically written except that waste management we have problems with unresolved waste management centers from Mariščina further to Lečevica in Split-Dalmatia County where you will make the biggest problem of this waste that has ever happened, such as was not even in Naples in Italy because you will have to transfer waste, transport from one dump to another dump, when you tried from Vrgorac to Sinj or vice versa, regardless of the mainly damage both Vrgorac and Sinj and Cetina. So you simply don't have here, about agriculture, so 0.5% of the agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia is only irrigated. 7,000 hectares are irrigated in a million-and-a-half hectares, half of which is unprocessed agricultural land. As for sustainable development, so look at these agglomerations, I mentioned earlier, and the minister wanted to wash himself. He is a participant in the project of agglomeration Sinj, and Cetina river is where half of Dalmatia drinks water from Cetina and now with Jadro we will and we must protect our waters. It is a fundamental human right, as is the indigenous seed of basic human right. We now have banks that you have given this strategy to withdraw funds from the EU, in fact Croatia has at least withdrawn funds from the EU during this budget period, and out of the free strategies you have written how many will be written, which will be achieved if you are as productive as you are so far. I repeat, three years ago, at a meeting of the Government in Split, the key projects for the Split-Dalmatia County are the combined roads, Immotskia transport infrastructure.../incomprehensible/... Imotski, Vrgorac tunnel Ravča Drvenik which is 5 times opened, Sinj Kuzovac-Kryzice, for Drniš is a very important compound, for Knin is a very important compound. Shall I tell you what happened? Nothing, zero kuna, zero kuna. Even once the airport is promised, it seems to me that the Mayor of Spider Airport is opening up downstairs, and there are planes already flying full seas, which we're talking about, what we're talking about. The reality is that Croatia is withdrawing at least EU funds in the Republic of Croatia, that the results since we entered the EU are that we have the results that 6% of GDP from evicted Croats, that more people are sending money to Croatia than we will get from EU funds along with the social fund this fund that mentions Plenkovic and boasts. And it is also very important that the Republic of Croatia has forgiven telecommunications in 2018 and 2019. 700 million teleopers for frequency fees, 700 million. And we have the slowest internet in Europe, not in the EU, in Europe, and the biggest profits are teleopers in the Republic of Croatia. It's just a guess. Now you have problems where people, kids can't have the Internet now this school online. So a lot of problems, the strategy can write 1,000 when you don't apply them. And once again it is not just Zagreb Croatia, 2/3 of Croatia is empty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30067	The last final debate on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club, the distinguished representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30068	Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, Vice President of the Parliament. I'm talking about the National Development Strategy, and there's always talk here about how this strategy paid very expensively. And it's very expensive. Really, 30 million kunas isn't a bit of money, but I'd like to point out one thing here that I haven't been able to say today, Minister Coric, unfortunately he's not here anymore. I have not found anywhere in those instruments that are a contribution, nor in the strategy itself to go to any information on the need to protect the Croatian part of the Adriatic Sea in the 30% to 2030 share, and that is what we must do towards the European Commission. So, the key thing that the European Commission will not forgive us is not listed in the strategy, not even in the acts accompanying the strategy. And yet I'm going to point out that even though I don't see anyone from the SDSS for example here, there are colleagues from the ruling party. All those accompanying acts have not been adopted for the period until 2030. Years. It is therefore acts adopted for the period until 2024, some until 2022, 2025, 2026. And 2027. The vast majority of these acts are based on which the strategy was simply not worth it. Then I'd like to know what the strategy is based on. And then and finally really ask a question, we have an essay that would be worthy of one of these high school graduates, a high school student, and that's it. I wouldn't even put it in the prom class because it's not worth that much. If that document really is not harmonised, or hanging, we do not have the documents he could rely on. And this is the key question really where that money went, where that money was given and what those people who were building this strategy have been doing for several years. Three years as far as I know, it's a document that I'm going to repeat to a high school student, so let's still make it the work of a high school high school student. And that's what's totally wrong. The only exact information I've heard here from Andrej Plenkovic for this speaker was that Croatia will strive until 2030 for a fertility rate of 1.47 children per mother, per woman. And what's forgotten and 1.8 children per mother is a fat natural fall. In other words, Andrej Plenkovic is ready to destroy, the disappearance of the Croatian nation because he said it for this speaker, and probably it is in the accompanying acts and listed it. I'll do it again. Andrej Plenkovic is ready and will make an effort, and this is his strategy for the Croatian state, to make the Croatian people disappear. Because 1.8 fertility means something to you in the natural movement of the population at today's level about 15,000 children less than people will die in Croatia on an annual basis. If that's what our strategy is, then it's a disaster. Then it's a disaster. If the Prime Minister is not able at least to put something in the strategy that we should all want, which is that fertility should be zero at least, which is 2,3, 2.4 children per family, or pardon per woman, per mother. Then I think we were wrong about the most important issue for the Croatian people. Of course, this strategy will go as other documents pass regardless of the amendments that can not be given to it or are not given amendments since they cannot be given to it. She'll pass, so that's clear. But here's the thing, though, I'm putting on a little worm to think a little bit about what the Prime Minister said about this pay phone today. And I will repeat, he has promised us, and he will make sure that in 2030 he disappears, or that we have fewer 15,000 children compared to the number of dead. Perhaps that figure shows all the misery and misery of this Croatian government and of course the current Croatian policy, I hope not the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30069	Final debate on behalf of the promoter, Ms Natasa Tramišak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30070	Dear MPs and MPs, I would like to thank you for today's active debate and all comments on this roof strategic document, which will focus the development of the entire society and the economy in the long term on all important issues. It is from your own discussion and all the issues, i.e. the breadth of the questions you have asked, and we see that the Strategy is a comprehensive document and that it has touched all the important issues in society. And none of the MPs questioned that. The overall strategy process was inclusive, transparent and participatory. The fact that it lasted more than 2 and a half years included representatives of the public authority body, units of local and regional (self-government) at more than 186 different events, 2316 participants. They all took part in their suggestions, suggestions and various impulses in creating these developmental directions, strategic goals and we can also tell the formulation itself, the clear vision that lies in this strategic document. The result of these two and a half to three years is an affirmative, ambitious but realistic document. According to some of you some indicators are too ambitious, some less ambitious. What I can tell you is that they are founded on the analytical bases we've heard a lot about today, the analytical bases made by the World Bank, but not only by them, but also by all relevant sources of data used in the Republic of Croatia and Eurostat, but also by the State Statistics Institute, as well as by sources of the Ministry of Finance and all resolution ministries that monitor certain public policies in a particular issue. It is an opportunity for everyone to be involved in the creation of this strategic document precisely and for the reason that this would be a unique strategic document in the Republic of Croatia that has a broader consensus, not just you as parliamentary representatives but a wider consensus of society entirely. What we can say is that even during a public consultation that lasted 30 days 181 comments were received, that other than cities, municipalities, counties other than other bodies of the state government included natural persons, so this is a document followed by the general public of the Republic of Croatia and pay attention to it. All comments that were relevant that could be adopted were adopted by the 25 authorities of the state administration. A certain part of the comments has been accepted and will also be processed in sectoral relevant documents. You also mentioned these 79 sectoral relevant documents, some of them, and most of them are medium-term characters, and they will cover in part what has already been started in this strategy. They are not exhausted, which means that space is also given to create a certain part of the documents that other state authorities and local and regional authorities consider necessary. The strategy focuses not only on economic issues, including social, scientific, security and cultural issues, the judiciary, public administration and fiscal stability, but also on Croats outside Croatia in order to determine the main development directions, as already mentioned and to determine key areas of intervention, a comprehensive analysis by sectors with advisory support from the World Bank. These 16 analytical bases are publicly available on the national strategy development page, containing 1092 pages, different statistical analyses. Total price 32 million 544 thousand kuna. Based on the strategy of the Croatian Partnership and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 2013 this approach and this principle of consultation and work with the World Bank, there is also the EU itself, and all other EU Member States, and thus these documents are paid out of EU technical assistance available to Member States. 23 Impact indicators in this strategy are clearly quantifiable and will be a confirmation that we are on the right path to achieving the drawn vision. Each of them has its initial target values, according to which we will monitor the impact of the implementation and report to the Croatian Parliament at the annual level. Sustainable economy and society, strengthening crisis resistance, digitisation, green transition and even regional development at the centre have a starting point and a basis, and that is every citizen of the Republic of Croatia. The direction we are going is for Croatia to be competitive, innovative, secure country of recognizable identity and culture, land of preserved resources, quality living conditions and equal opportunities for all, and I believe that we all strive here. It's a clear picture of where we're positioned today with our advantages and weaknesses, but it's responding to where we want to be in the future. In the debate, we touched a lot on the topics of innovation and technology. In 2030, the goal is to achieve 3% of GDP allocation for research and development. Innovations and new technologies, new products linking researchers and private initiatives are a guarantee of achieving the GDP growth dynamics we have given ourselves, and teachingly, with the support of the transformation of existing foundations, I mention that today, also here is how Parliamentarian Pavić mentioned the approved grant of state aid to a very important project for the development of electric batteries is precisely the companies of the Roman automobiles which are leaders of the Republic of Croatia in terms of the development of electric cars, and this project also makes a step forward. The indicator is that Croatia pays for global trends and progress. We're not going back in time. Such a project and similar ones have the full support of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and investment in research, development and innovation as a whole fits and is recognised in this strategic document. The processes of digitization and digital transformation surround us, forcing us to change our life habits. In addition, the pandemic has accelerated certain processes and changed the world around us and in this sense. By following.../incomprehensible/... economic and social digitisation, we want to reach the EU Member States' average, and we currently have more than 2.5 billion kuna worth of investments in digital society, broadband infrastructure and all that is necessary to achieve that goal. In the area of regional development, where it is also important to highlight and progress in the development of digital technology, we will also monitor the progress of the competitiveness of Croatian NUTS-2 regions, and we know that since 1 January of this year we have corrected the NUTS-2 map of the region that has been following us incorrectly since 2013, which has led to the loss of 25% of support from the Pannonian Croatia area during the implementation of its EU projects. We have also started a new fairer process of calculating the index of the development of the unit of local and regional self-government. We are committed to a balanced regional development and more efficient use of EU funds. The development agreement for Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem was further strengthened in October last year with high-quality strategic projects in communication with Slavonian mayors. We are preparing a development agreement for northern Croatia. Furthermore, we are preparing development agreements for Banovina, Croatia's Adriatic, where projects for the Dalmatian Zagora, Lika and Gorski Kotar will be included. One participatory participation of counties in the area. This very document will also give guidance and set priorities for negotiations with the European Commission on the use of EU funds available in the new multiannual financial framework. It is also important here to point out that during this financial period we have contracted 113.07% of the allocations. So more than 92 billion kuna. The projects are under way until 2023. So far 38 billion kuna and 46.81% have been paid. Confirmed by the European Commission, more than 33 billion kuna and more than 40%, respectively. The total difference is currently between the funds paid from the EU budget to the RH 37.68 billion kuna budget, and we continue to work on that path. The biggest operational programme was the operational programme competitiveness and cohesion. So far, 10 billion kuna has been agreed to improve traffic connection. For investment in entrepreneurship, more than nine billion kunas, science, health, natural, cultural heritage are all projects that we follow for the next three years. In the next period, as I mentioned, we will use this basic document as a basis for programming and will focus on the five main objectives of cohesion policy. Smarter Europe, therefore, and smarter Croatia. Focusing on innovation, digitisation, economic transformation, greater support for small and medium-sized enterprises, greener carbon-free Europe, energy transition, renewable energy sources, the fight against climate change, Europe's connections. Strategic transport, digital networks, social Europe, implementation of the European pillar of social rights, quality employment, education, social inclusion and equal access to health care. Europe is closer to citizens, and supporting local-level strategies. A final document that draws a picture of Croatia in 2030, a picture of Croatia which is a country of quality for all who live in Croatia, which provides equal opportunities for all to develop, a picture of a proud and innovative Croatia in the heart of Europe. Such a Croatia can be achieved if we all implement our goals together today. Finally, I would like to thank again my predecessors who have launched the creation of this strategic document, all the ministries that participated in the clear formulation of the document with all key, public policies. Likewise, all cities, municipalities, counties, entrepreneurs, economic associations, all public bodies involved in the public debate, as well as all individuals, political parties and the academic community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30071	We have a few replicas. The first is the distinguished representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30072	Dear Minister, here I want one concrete answer to two specific questions. One thing is to tell me your opinion, your view of this strategy is that in 2030 the Croatian population will be extinct at about equal speed, which the Croatian people will disappear in a similar way because this strategy is foreseen. And the second question is what you have to say is that the key item is related to the protection of the Adriatic Sea by means of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, i.e. the Croatian Government by 2030, is not included in this strategy, and this is a condition for the European Commission to do so by 2030.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30073	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30074	Thank you. When we talk about the indicator of total fertility rates from 1.8 to 2030. What I mentioned at the beginning of the document must in itself be realistic. We were in 2018 that you could see it was at 1.47. The projection was made with the assumptions of the initial age of sexual structure before the end of 2019 of net migration at zero and all other inputs taken by the UN. If we're talking about 1.4 we're by the number of live births at 30 thousand 262. What is important to say in 2020 is about the number of 36135 which means 1.6. So we predict an increase. 1.8 speaks of the prognosis of 38908 children born. It's not a pessimistic projection. Of course, all family policies, demographic policies, and also in line with the Strategy for Demographic Revitalisation of the Republic of Croatia will be focused on increasing. These are indicators based on real projections The goal is to be of course and more successful. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30075	Here you go, Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30076	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, I demand a break from the Croatian Sovereigns' Club. So, Madam Minister, here we have one fact that you've misread. 1.8 Fertility is not a growth but a decline in population, i.e. a negative, or natural decline, or a negative, natural growth as some call it. So if one strategy puts that we'll disappear as a people and in 10 years, not in two months but in 10 years, then I'm a very big pessimist. Because as the strategy is related to the birth rate, that is to say, the fertility is written in all other aspects. I'll mention the economy here. So, Croatia is the last in the EU sometimes the last, currently last after GDP, and I am sure given the Croatian government's view that it doesn't matter so much that we will stay there. The second question, or second question that you have not answered, is equally important and it is about Croatian sovereignty and it is about the famous exclusive economic belt that we have declared, but we have not protected. And this is a huge, huge gap, and I am now warning you as a minister that this is being corrected in some way and that this space is being protected, and even in a basic document that has been brought in for 2.5 years and costing 30 million kunas, this key information and the key obligation of the Croatian state to protect 30% of the Croatian part of the Adriatic Sea, which Croatia manages, means almost 50,000 km2 not recently, but more than 50,000 km2 must be protected. I'm sorry you didn't answer how you were supposed to and I am, like the Croatian people, a very great pessimist about what your government is doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30077	Okay. We're approving a break, a break of 21st and 30th. It's 9:00 P.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:30 A.M.]] Here you go, Mrs. Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30079	Dear Minister, I ask you a question about a point in the section on the development of entrepreneurship and crafts. You're saying there's going to be a legal security climate by applying the principle, let's start with the smallest. It is precisely the smallest that are often subject to more severe control, more severe inspections, and more severe sanctions. Croatia would make a big and important step if it changed that paradigm and finally started from the biggest to the smallest. Is there any indication that such a step will be made in the legal system of the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30080	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30081	Dear Parliamentarians, I must admit that I do not know what context to answer until the end except that small and medium-sized entrepreneurs are the backbones of the development of European economies and the economy of the Republic of Croatia. We know that small and medium-sized enterprises account for more than 99% of the economies, so they are holders of the economic and economic development of a particular country. It is precisely in this context that they are placed in the sense of this national development strategy when we say we will start from the smallest in this regard to them and the strategy itself. Therefore, stronger, better quality, stronger support for small and medium-sized enterprises, and of course here also in the context of programming and use of the European Structural Investment Funds available.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30082	Next replica, distinguished representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30083	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, dear Vice-President, we ourselves have seen that the national development of the strategy itself is a strategy that was very.../incomprehensible/... I would like to quote to my colleagues in the opposition Article 214 which clearly states that it is possible to submit the amendment. The HDZ club filed it. And we also have a positive practice from the previous call, the proposal for a region of national security in 2017 was amendments of the SDP and SDSS Club, a spatial development strategy from 2017 was an amendment of the Government on both sides. The amendments could therefore be submitted and the HDZ Club submitted them, and that they did not, if you did not know that, you could have submitted the written material. The only written material that came to the parent board was from Mr Lerotić's IDS, where we found in our conversation with him that all of this was already included in the national development strategy and from an association with disability where we also claimed that this horizontal theme. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30084	Here's the minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30085	I would like to thank the parliamentary representative, so the amendment to the HDZ Representatives Club has arrived, which I expect we will open the debate tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30086	The next replica, the distinguished representative Tomislav Tomašević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30087	One topic that you've only been through this way where you've said it's a perfectly normal practice that the World Bank is doing analytical bases for national development strategies, so if you can give me some examples of Western European countries where that was the case. What I was looking at on the World Bank website where it says that the project where analytical bases are being done for Croatia is that they have done so in the case of national development strategies in Malaysia, Qatar and Kazakhstan. So here's what I'm interested in is these examples from Western European countries where not domestic education or institutes, research organisations have done analytical backgrounds. And the second question when they had already cost these analytical bases 30,000 kuna per page, why couldn't they at least translate them into Croatian? As far as I can tell, they're only in English.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30088	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30089	Thank you. Analytical bases are also available in Croatian you can view them on the Ministry and World Bank websites so I don't know where you download only in English analytical bases. So we have them both in English and in Croatian, and also in Croatian are printers and here they are in these two registries. But not to be able to go back now, I did not just say analytical bases, but generally for strategies, but for the general analytical backgrounds of other statistical relevant bases, and also for advisory services, the World Bank also provides other EU Member States and the European Commission themselves, and you have some published information for the European Commission, so look at the World Bank pages.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30090	The next replica is the distinguished representatives of Katica Glamuzina.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30091	Thank you. Regardless of what we will not support this, I will be free to note that as Government, you may find it convenient to have a plan such as the strategy to follow through with a concrete act such as the budget. It wouldn't be bad if those two things were consistent. The example is when you mention, when you mention public consultation that the Association Dar in public consultation did not specify the need to involve working with gifted children in part of the national strategy when talking about education you would not even mention them, nor did our places for them as well as the last budget find no place for them. We'll wait for the next one, see if you can fix it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30092	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30093	As far as the budget itself is concerned, I don't know if I've been well aware of the question that you're looking for, specifically, with the budget itself to state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30094	Next replica, next replica, distinguished representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30095	Dear Minister, you mentioned various indicators and indicators. I'll tell you one who wasn't introduced even though there was a promise that he would be introduced on the board of directors, and that was an indicator that was related to the locality of jobs. Five, six indicators were offered by the union and even found to be the ratio, i.e. the proportion of temporary employees in the total number of employees where Croatia unfortunately knocks down European records. And of course it's answered as usual to what I pointed out to answer in a public debate that it will be in the Strategic Paper of the Ministry of Labour. But given what is happening to us in Croatia, it should still be in the national strategy. And also, it was accepted by the unions that today, unfortunately, we don't. And as for the amendments, I agree that I can write, but there's one thing. I asked for the bases, I can't write an amendment to look for the bases. And the fact that there are grounds I learned today from the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30096	The Minister's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30097	Here's the answer. The amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club is in the direction of an additional indicator. The share of temporary employees in total employees with an initial value of 18.1% in 2019 came to the target value of the EU average that was 15% in 2019, so here this is the indicator we now have in the amendments that will be proposed for adoption tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30098	The next latest replica is the esteemed representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30099	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, as the national strategy is the basis for the withdrawal of European funds, you have listed which projects will certainly be supported in the next financial period. I ask you to pay particular attention to the construction of waterworks. In fact, there are dozens of projects, especially with us in the coast, which are fully prepared, extremely valuable and will not be possible to implement without European funds. I think one of the coastal incidents could be extremely harmful and devastating for both our tourism and our economy, so here's another request for you to especially advocate that kind of project.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30100	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30101	The European Commission therefore provides for a more greener Europe to continue investment in environmental and nature protection, thereby also building water utility buildings, so that this is certainly one of the strategic priorities and objectives that will be taken over by the Republic of Croatia and to provide for a certain part of the funding for the same, and to continue to implement the projects already launched in this financial period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30102	Thank you, Secretary of State. This concludes the debate, we're exhausted. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We're going to the next item on the agenda. It is - Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Safety Protection of Maritime Ships and Ports, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 83. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading shall apply. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economy, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Respected state? Here's an opening for the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30116	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. The current Act on the Safety Protection of Maritime Ships and Ports applies to Croatian ports in which ships in international navigation agree. In accordance with that law, the Port Administration, or the Port concession authority, specifically intended for the security of the protection of such port, relate primarily to the obligation to draw up an assessment and safety plan for the protection of the port or port of operations, and to the application of the measures set out in the safety protection plan. The design, assessment and security protection plans of the port shall be carried out by recognised port safety and security organisations. That law lays down the conditions for the application of the EC Regulation. 725/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 31 March 2004, on strengthening the safety protection of ships and ports and transposed into national legislation by Directive 2005/65 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 October 2005 on the strengthening of security protection. The European Commission’s follow-up to the European Commission’s inspection supervision for the period from 18 March 2019 to 22 March 2019 in the Republic of Croatia and concerning the application of the aforementioned Regulation and Directive has concluded that appropriate amendments to the Law on the Safety Protection of Maritime Ships and Ports should be made in order to ensure that all ports covered by the law must, without exception, be subject to an assessment of safety protection as provided for in Article 6(1). It's a directive. By contrast, the current Article 7. Article 4 The Law on the Safety of Maritime Ships and Ports is prescribed an exception to such a rule in such a way as to make such assessments which may exclude those ports which have less than 12 loads per year and the same provision has never been consumed. This law therefore deletes paragraph 4 of Article 7 and all of this is explained in advance. For the sake of legal certainty and clarity of the interpretation of the legal text, this law further regulates the provisions which define the composition of the commission which operates by the basis of the provisions of the same law and in a way that accurately determines their composition depending on the tasks carried out at the time. It is also noted that members of the same commission do not belong to the right to compensation for the work of the Commission, so no additional financial resources in the state budget are necessary for breach of this law. It's over. The adoption of this law will fully harmonize the area of ship and port security with European legislation. Based on a more precise definition of the composition of a commission acting on the basis of the amended law, it will contribute to stronger legal certainty and without further cost of budgetary resources. Based on everything I'm proposing to pass this law to the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30117	Thank you, Secretary of State. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? There isn't. I'm opening a debate. The first came to the club of Croatian sovereigns, the distinguished representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic. He's gone. The second is the Club of Representatives of the Most Appreciative Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30118	Thank you very much. The safety of ships and ports, of course, is that we often prescribe laws and directives and EU regulations here and then boast about regulations. But neither our ports are safe, and I don't know about ships. Because I don't know who makes them what tribal bits in the Republic of Croatia, is produced as in Brodo Trogir, for example, ships are produced, in the Split Square the tribals are produced by ships. This would be much more significant if we had dealt with this issue, rather than with amendments to a particular commission that would not allegedly have any compensation but would be also politically delegated. The claws hold or depend on which county is the port or HDZ or SDP, which is the case in Split. So that's very clear and that's how it works. However, as far as security is concerned, I would talk more about this aspect here, the aspect of environmental security than all these ships entering our ports, such as the port of Gaženica or other ports, so if they do come there, so they unload their feces, fecal water and ballast water into our seas, so people close to the beaches that were here last year were also in a trap, in the port of Gazenica that we left to the Turks for 30 million kunas for 20 years. The Croatian state has invested 2 billion and 200 million together with this part of the fast highway to the port of Gazenica. That's the problem. Of course it will come it is open and of course Zadar deserves as the centre of the Adriatic one good port, strong port. He's the center of the Adriatic and it's a strategic port. But we left it down Calmet County, Longin or whatever they're called. They gave it to the Turks for small money, for small money. A million and 600 thousand kunas of the Gaženica port were rented annually, investing two billion and 200 million. And fecal water because it wasn't made according to the project. Fecal waters endanger the health of people in Zadar. There's bathrooms, beaches, people get infected. And that is the problem, not to rewrite some regulation and EU directive that will be in committees or I don't know members as security of ports and ships. Luke must be ours, they're our potential and they need to be safe. However, who controls our ships on the Adriatic. Is anyone in control? Here you have declared the exclusive economic belt because you know finally and here and your colleague Bačić finally admitted that these were not my footings and that it is good to declare the exclusive economic belt and that ZERP exclusive economic belts are not the same. But we have a problem with the ships. They are jeopardizing our safety, endangering our tourists, endangering our potential, tourist potential because their balastic waters, oil-washing, I have no idea what they're doing, are stains at sea, in the center of the Adriatic, bigger than Split. Just by streaming God we can be grateful that such a streaming is in nature, which doesn't come to our shores like plastic bottles, I don't know which waste municipal on our Dubrovnik beach because it happens to Dubrovnik walls even. So we don't have a problem making laws and regulations, directives. We're talking security. We also don't bring security to that commission because both ports and port administrations are all about policy claws, just politics. Because if it weren't, then the port of Rijeka would be a strategic port not only for Croatia but for the EU, and we wouldn't have Koper or I don't know who's taking over ours, that part of ours that the river has tribals. Or in the national strategy, you didn't even mention the Split port. The second city in the country, the largest in the Adriatic, is neither mentioned nor important to them. It's about who manages the ports, who gives concessions, and how profits are shared. And that's why the county was created, that's why these systems were created, and the security of what's most important is both the port and the ship's tribune and that's our potential. But our greatest potential is our sea, our beaches, and we're trying to keep it safe. Do we even have a distinguished representative of the Croatian Government ship in case you're going to ensure if there's an elemental threat or an accident to pour oil out of some tanker that's going to Koper, Rijeka, I don't know where it's going. In what way, in which time period do you react and which infrastructure or which of you have the elements and means to protect it? Nothing, nothing. Is there a Croatia ship in case of natural disasters, to protect the area as soon as possible and to resuscitate the area. These are issues, not regulations and directives, as here we have aligned the laws with the EU directive, and this is what is happening in our Adriatic. I repeat, oil stains and ballast waters larger than the Adriatic are in the center of the Adriatic, only because of the current we have a lucky thing that didn't reach our shores. Imagine what that would mean for our tourism if that happened. And if we have, that's the key question, do we have ships, devices, people, if they're trained people in the event that they threaten to happen, that some tanker pours oil into larger quantities, that there's some kind of accident of tankers that transport or dangerous other matter doesn't matter which, which threatens the environment, in fact, the flora and fauna and our Adriatic, our sea. Our people live off the Adriatic. Unfortunately, as we've managed to see here I've gone in several directions, but this law changes something commission I have no idea, receives no fee, but it will again the parties especially their claws because there is a profit that they can properly schedule and that's the point of this story. But much more important is this segment of security and environmental protection of the main resources on our Adriatic, our beaches, our fish fund, our flora and fauna, our aquaculture as it's all called and that's the story. For years we've let the Italians give us... our Adriatic. We need to ensure on the Adriatic about ports to talk about which are very important and important. Here we just had a strategy throughout the day 30 million paid, Split is not mentioned but only for notice and for pre-election purposes. The HDZ candidate in Split made an observation that your boss is some kind of port, I have no idea. Go to Vranjic and see what the relationship is. Go to Vranjic and see what a small Venice is, and you will see what is happening in this area in the Gulf of Kaštelan where the Gulf of Kaštelan is threatened, according to the Brač Channel, everything is threatened because we are not taking care of the preservation of our environment, our sea. So to talk about security through this kind of change, through some kind of EU directive like we've rewritten the directives. As far as I've brought the mother of Jesus, how many of these directives I've brought here since I've been to the Parliament, you can't peer. Well, it's not a holy gospel or the Holy Scriptures directive, it's very simple, a directive or a regulation, then why the Parliament. We must rise above these official administrative matters and in reality protect our Adriatic, use the funds if we are already in the European Union, the European Union to ensure in case of environmental disasters in ports or off-ports that we can prevent it, and not that other feces when they come to our Adriatic, can you do it in the United States, you will see, you can't shake out the feces and waste water from ships like they do in Gaženica or in other ports that you have assigned to the Turks, and the people are so hard paid by the Croatian people and Croatian citizens to have Turks. A Turkish firm, I have no idea which, even in Dubrovnik, they wouldn't let it build because it wasn't otherwise desirable. Of course, it is not desirable to teach what people build for small money to foreign investors. At least they built it, but they didn't give it away. Zadar 2, which costs a little, estimated 200 million, and eventually ended up with 600 million to connect to Luke Gagenica. And the total investment in Luka Gaženica is a good coincidence, 2 billion kuna a year we rent for a million 600 or you rent it at 20 years 30 million kuna. Now, that's safety. There's someone here who reads peanuts good.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30119	The next one is SDP representative representative Erik Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30120	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. According to this item of the agenda, yes, it is a matter of agreeing first to the Regulation, the European Regulation of 2004 and then to the 2005 Directive. In particular, 65. What is most important in these amendments to the law is the very fact that we are in line with the European directive which is in Article. Article 6(1) does not give rise to the possibility to exempt from making an assessment of the security of the port covered by this Directive. What does that mean? That means we're changing our ankles. Seven. St. 4. The law that basically allowed the safety assessment in those ports in which we have the contact of ships less than 12 in one year and that's certainly fine. It's also good that I think it's correct that part that's related to the changes in the composition of the commission because it doesn't imply that they have to be exactly ministry employees, port captains or police administrations, but it also opens up the possibility of engaging experts in a joke, possibly the World Bank. No, well, we're not gonna joke, we're gonna be serious because this is a serious topic. However, there is another part that may be contradictory, which is not part of these changes and additions. In fact, in the applicable law in that part that doesn't change, I'm going to quote, so Art. 5 century 4. ‘exceptionally from Article 1 of this Article, the Minister may, with the prior opinion of the Ministry, have jurisdiction over internal affairs from the application of all and individual provisions of this Act, temporarily exempt ports or certain parts of ports referred to in point (b) of Article 1 of this Article.’ Of course, it may have been a little bit in college, and that member of the law hasn't changed, so I would pray for an interpretation of it because it could be interpreted twice. So that part that applies from the European Directive is an exception related to 12 tamperings per year and which is a permanent character, and we leave the possibility of this exception that I do not know how much it is in agreement with the directive itself. And one thing, and that's a particular question, but that's more of the part that's related to the administrative procedures themselves. So the last two articles of the amendment and the addition write for 60 days. My question is, can it be shorter? Therefore, the deadline should be 30 days because ports are an important business activity where it is possible to shorten the deadlines in any way just so as to start as soon as possible and to avoid jeopardising economic activity. But it's also a matter of shortening so that it doesn't endanger the part that's related to making the materials for port safety. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30121	Next debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, distinguished representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30122	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the esteemed Secretary of State, the Assistant Minister with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues. We will support the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Safety of Maritime Ships and Ports, as proposed by the Government of the Basic Law defining the safety protection of ports and ships, was adopted in 2004 in the Croatian Assembly, and resulted in an international maritime organisation responding to that famous event when two aircraft crashed into the tweezers in New York, when at UN level or globally determined that certain traffics were either sea, road or air could pose a significant danger to human lives. And then, at all levels of traffic, certain measures have been established, and in particular the international maritime organisation has gone with conventions which have practically imposed on Member States to lay down in their national legislation the laws which will lay down such standards that will make them safer on the one hand, and on the other hand, ships that enter those ports. There are two major international conventions that define on one side the protection of human life at sea, this famous Solas Convention. And another Marpol talking about protecting the marine environment. This law, when adopted in its original first form in 2004, is based on this Solas Convention, which speaks of the protection of human life, which is why the law was then passed in the Croatian Parliament, and is based on that convention. Later on, we amended this law, we adopted it the second time in 2009, that is, in the last term of 2017, we passed a third law each time to improve it and bring it into line with the European directives that were the result of the reflection of the European Commission that was always ahead of the other Member States. And if certain countries were to be late in the implementation of the international maritime organisation conventions, the European Commission, which represents the Member States that have far the highest capacity in the case of the merchant navy, since these are also the most developed countries in the world, always the European Commission has gone ahead, prescribed measures before they were then accepted by the rest of the world. So we as a state that was already in 2004 and the fifth and sixth until 2011 when we concluded negotiations for Croatia's entry into full membership, and then in those negotiations in the transport chapter we adopted laws in the Croatian Parliament that followed the directives and regulations of the European Commission. The law we last passed left the possibility because of the simplification that ports open to public transport in Croatia and such ports in Croatia are 54 to which this law applies, but that certain ports where there are less than 12 deals on an annual basis do not have to do this one, I would say, on one hand, an administrative action in which you must bring an assessment of the security of the port and the security plan, which in a certain way and financially represents a certain cost for the ports themselves. Then both clear and additional employment, additional attitude, etc. etc. We have prescribed this law that it is not necessary for ports where it is less than 12 boardings a year that they do not have to be subject to the provisions of this law. It is exactly as it seems to me introductory and told the Secretary of State that only inspection supervision was made, it was found that there should be no exceptions but that all ports should be subject to this law for all ports, which I say should apply to all 54 ports in Croatia. They should also not carry out their safety protection assessments and the port itself's security plan. And that's good for me. In fact, the world differs between states whose maritime administrations are neat. These countries take good care of their ports and for the protection of the marine environment, as they are often ships operating seaports before and before shipping, potential marine environment pollutants and, on the other hand, because of the safety of passengers' crews in those ports, it is good that standards are raised to the highest possible level. As regards the ships to which this law applies in Croatia, at least a year ago, I do not have the latest data for 2020, but for 2019, this law would refer to 33 Croatian ships sailing in international navigation, and to which this law applies and it is good that these ships are also making an assessment of security protection. For them, this is done in Croatia by our Croatian Classification Institute and Register of Ships, which is otherwise recognised by the institution, not only in Croatia but also at EU level, and given what it is doing recently, the Croatian Register of Ships has slowly come out of these frameworks and is doing a security assessment, classification and ships outside the EU. Therefore, we are one of the few countries when it comes to maritime affairs that can satisfy all aspects of this law on the one hand, and on the other hand, given that we have ports and ships and captains and shipowners and shipowners, we also have a classification society, we have virtually all the attributes that one maritime state can have, with such law enforcement, we really have no problems and our shipowners when it comes to making documents so that they in other ports are very important in other ports, but above all in EU ports where high standards have met the conditions that so-called. ...the inspection controls that check that these ships have truly met the conditions resulting from such a law and convention on the basis of which this law is based. Therefore, when we talk about Croatia as a maritime state, I think that given the fact that we have everything and as an administration, but on the other hand we have everything we have in mind when it comes to the economy, the maritime economy and the shipowners and when it comes to the fact that if you want the shipbuilding that is not what it used to be, but still today Croatian shipbuilding is ready to make demanding ships, and you see what they are doing today even though they are in certain problems, today they can answer and build top ships, very high capacity whether it is about passenger ships, whether it is about freight ships. Therefore, we at the Advocacy Club will accept and support such a law that is in the first reading given that it is harmonising with the directive, perhaps it could have gone straight into both readings, but I do not believe that there will be any major changes because it is a harmonisation, and I would say our obligation and it is good that this exemption does not apply to other countries, there is no reason why such an exemption will not be drawn up such an evaluation plan and security protection of the ports do neither do other European ports nor do we need to. In this way we become clearer and more acceptable, more competitive and serious shipmen who sail in international navigation know that where there is and is implemented this law in the countries where this law is implemented, that then these ports are clear and all that happens to them from the aspect of safety, but what is very important in maritime transport not only in Croatia, not only in Europe but also in the whole world, and then in this sense we will absolutely support this law in the club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30123	The next debate on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club is a respected representative of Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30124	Honored Chairman, fellow MPs and MPs. Therefore, it is certain that this law is only being passed because the European Commission has made inspection checks, in which way one of their directives has been transposed into Croatian legislation, and they have found that when we talk about the safety protection of maritime ships and ports, we must ensure that all ports without exception are covered by this law. So all ports must have made security assessments because we were normal, as in everything else, that in the same situation someone had to, and someone else didn't. And it is sad and sad that it has not occurred to us ourselves that in one segment or in all segments we introduce the same and equal rules for all, it is a basic problem that Croatia has at all levels in all topics of whatever it is. It may not have even come forward to debate this law because it is not disputed to act in accordance with what the European Commission has identified and said, but this law is one fantastic parallel between the National Development Strategy that we have been discussing all day on the one hand, and on the other hand the inability and perhaps the lack of interest of Croatian policy to take care of its future and manage its development potential. Namely, I met with the notion of port administrations for the first time by acting as president of the Commission for Decision on a conflict of interest, and then I realized that one big problem was that the port administrations, whether of the county, were not under any control or under whose radar. The members of the Board of Directors, and then the Board of Directors elects and sets up policies, very often without any criteria, without any control and very often the port administrations were those places where they were taken care of by the outlying party staff when there are no places for them anywhere else. Port administrations are one of those examples that proves that all stories about fighting corruption as well as all stories of transparency that are often liked to be called by a representative of the Hrebar, are indeed empty words and mere flossules. The port administrations, namely, carry out very significant activities from the berths and discharges of water and floating facilities, boarding and landing of passengers, acceptance and direction of vehicles, acceptance and dispatch of all types of waste from maritime facilities, lifting and landing services, concessions of approval, permits, for all these activities of the port administration, generate revenue. In addition, they have revenues from port fees, from utility bonds, from nautical bonds, from decks. Even benefits from supplying electricity and water. What's the problem is no one, but absolutely no one controls how these fees are charged, how they are incomed, and how these fees are spent. The port administrations are the potential Croatia has, and I also agree here with those representatives who spoke about the need to preserve sea goods and how port administrations can contribute to the acceleration of development and prosperity. But I didn't see any of the only port administration that really serves that purpose. The port administrations are actually political prey and will remain that way as long as we are engaged in transposing European directives in the way the European Commission says that it does not know our specific problems, and in developing national strategies, in anti-corruption strategies, in local administration development strategies or in certain regions on such issues and problems there is not a single word. So, put the port administrations under the radar of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest but, if necessary, other much stronger control and supervisory bodies. And then we'll benefit more from them, so it won't be a problem for us that all port administrations have to carry out insurance without exception from their risks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30125	Next individual debate, MP Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30126	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would not have been involved in the debate either if I had not read this bill, i.e. the assessment of the situation and the basic issues that are being addressed by this law, I had not encountered an interesting formulation which was partly touched by my colleague Oreskovic before me. Namely, it says Article 7. Article 4 The Act on the Security Protection of Maritime Ships and Ports is also prescribed an exception to the rules on the basis of which the port, i.e. the port operational area to which the same law applies, must have an assessment of the security protection of the port. Based on these exceptions, the ministry can, etc. And all ports should have that now. What I'm afraid of, and I hope to smoke in cold, because we still have time to do it eventually if we need legal correction until the next reading is that for the sake of making, so on-the-spot security protection, let's say a company doesn't specialize in that. And then all the contests, all the jobs get one company that you may not believe in owning a grandmother, godfather, daughter, son-in-law or one of any more prominent politicians. I'm a cartoonist, of course, and I'm afraid I've been taught bad experiences. I'm also afraid that most of these estimates will be just popular copies of the paste, i.e. copy and paste, that we won't have actual estimates, but that we'll have a document to satisfy the form. Are we going to end up raising the safety of our ports in doubt? And that's why I say I'm afraid of these phenomena. Whether we can regulate or resolve this legally does not know, probably not by this law, since if it is public procurement, tenders should go depending on how much the price is, etc. But I'm saying, learned by experience, I'm afraid, I had this need to share with you colleagues and colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30127	We have a replica, the esteemed representative of Romana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30128	Thank you, Vice President. So here's listening to your discussion briefly, but in detail I have to tell you that your suspicion is justified because since it's the HDZ government and that I'm definitely also afraid that it will specialize in one company and that there will be doubts about transparency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30129	Thank you, colleague. Let us hope that we will be what our colleagues and colleagues on the right hand side of the assembly often honor the wicked prophets that they will not be so, that there will be no abuse. But I'm saying, reading this simply forced me to do it. In a good kitchen already known actors so that they can witness such a thing in the very near future if I don't know either in this law or in another we don't introduce any security measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30130	Here's the full debate we've brought to an end. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. I thank the Secretary of State and the assistants. We're going to the next point. The next item is - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, first reading, P.Z. 37. Proposer: Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading shall apply to this item of the agenda. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. Does the proposaler's representative want to give an explanation?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30133	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and fellow MPs and respected citizens of the Republic who follow through the screen, here before we go I would just like to point out to our viewers that we started with this topic at 10 o'clock and 20 minutes and the question is the same now that we are going to discuss such an important topic for our citizens and generally entrepreneurs. Today we are discussing the abolition of mandatory memberships in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. On behalf of the proposer of this law, I would like to address you with a few words. At first, I would like to point out that I am presenting this bill in good faith. I hope that colleagues from both the position and the opposition will listen to the open mind and eventually support this law. In particular, I also think of HSLS and HNS and IDS, which are presented in public as liberal parties, and you, too, are gentlemen of the HDZ who are primarily in favour of the free market. To all MPs who are local leaders and commissioners, I point to the fact that you will be watched by the local community as you vote, especially local entrepreneurs and their workers, because this topic is very important to them, extremely important, and local elections are very close. The Croatian Chamber of Commerce, as it says to itself on the official website, is an independent professional business organisation that promotes, represents and coordinates the common interests of its members in front of state and other bodies in Croatia and abroad. It should also find foreign partners for entrepreneurs seeking export orientation and thus assist in entering foreign markets. The question arises if the principle role of this institution is so positive why does most of its forced members no longer want to be bound by this membership? In this legislative proposal, I stress it is not about destroying, decommissioning or destroying institutions, but about allowing the Croatian Chamber of Commerce to do its job for the purposes of its members, and to provide the results with a greater number of memberships. At this moment, as we discuss this topic, the Association's vote of entrepreneurs signed over 20,000 people, and on the day of the vote, the number will grow even more. Now, let's go over the arguments on this bill today. Under the number 1st president of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce Mr. Luka Burilovic speaks of a vision of voluntary membership. On the official pages of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce back in 2015, Croatian Chamber of Commerce President Mr Burilovic also referred to the question of membership of the chamber which was opened in the public office and I quote: "I must again point out that the transition to voluntary membership is a vision of the new leadership of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, but in a way that gradually increases revenues from my own activities." If the official data are looked at on the other hand in the financial reports of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the structure of the income remains unchanged. In the last 3 years, around 70% of Croatian Chamber of Commerce's income has continued to come from mandatory membership fees and only 5% of the sale of services. The Croatian Chamber of Commerce, according to Mr Burilovic, quotes: "Of all chambers, it has the most favourable membership fee of 42 kuna per month for as many as 97% of the members, while the value of only one service offered is ten times the annual amount of membership," I close the quote. However, when all the mandatory fees of 42 kunas are summed up at year level, they amount to 165 million kunas or more than a billion kunas in 10 years. So that 97% of the companies that Mr Burilovic is talking about have not singled out only 42 kunas per month but billions of kunas in 10 years, and that certainly changes the perception of the reality of the situation because if someone gave you a bill of billions of kuna in 10 years I doubt you would only say you would be grateful already. But when it was analysed where this billion kuna of compulsory members of entrepreneurs were spent, various costs would be found for African safaris, rhinos, purchases and refurbishing of the Mediterranean educational chamber center of innovation, etc. MEC's former Panoram Motel in Preluca near Rijeka, which today is an unusable ruins, invaluable fairs Shanghai and Buenos Aires or invaluable Shanghai office or, say, 20 to 30 million kuna spent on flyers and promotional canvas bags and golded catalogues in the last 10 years. Argument number 2 of the goods exports per employee, i.e. the number of employees per million. In this sense, entrepreneurs believe that the Croatian Chamber of Commerce is treating their money with the least indiscretion, and the service they receive is considered inadequate. In this context, the superficial analysis of productivity or view of trade exports per chamber employee and the number of chamber employees per million inhabitants shows the situation in which the chamber is located. A comparison of 9 countries in the EU, Estonia, Slovenia, Austria, Germany, Denmark, Finland, Italy, Belgium and France with Croatia is a startling fact. Stock exports per chamber employee of EU countries are moving between $200m, such as Austria up to about $700m in exports as in Germany. In Croatia per employee, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce has only 25 million dollars or almost 12 times less than in the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce and 18 times weaker than in the Estonian Chamber of Commerce. Estonia creates goods exports equal to Croatia with three times fewer inhabitants, and in their chamber only 30 people are employed, unlike our chamber where 550 employees are employed. Also, when we talk about the number of chamber employees per million inhabitants of the country, we can establish that Slovenia has 55 and Estonia has 24 employees in chambers per million inhabitants. Other European Union countries have 16 types of France or 90 Austria. Again, our chamber is the most inefficient and has 130 employees per million inhabitants. Therefore, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce has the highest employees per million inhabitants and the smallest exports per employee. The Croatian Chamber of Commerce belongs to only the bottom of efficiency under this criterion. If we exclude Germany with which we cannot measure anyway, it is interesting that the most efficient chambers in small countries such as Denmark, Slovenia, Finland and Estonia are in which membership in chambers is not mandatory but voluntary. Argument number three. The efficiency of the chamber's business. Perhaps the best comparison with Slovenia we've been with in the common state. The question arises as to how the Slovenians managed to introduce optional membership in chambers far away in 2006, and we did not. The reason for this is precisely greater corruption in Croatia than it is in Slovenia or Estonia. Corruption here is not just about giving bribes like we had the opportunity to look at in Slovenia 9 when the already forgotten Janaf affair, because today the bouquets of Oroslavlje and millions of kunas of suspected origin were spinning so shamelessly. Corruption in the broader sense of that word is a measure of the efficiency of the public sector that can best be determined in the way of employment, whether it goes through a link or a transparent competition. Perhaps both wives and spouses of some parliamentary representatives are present today in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. How likely do you think they are to be employed in a transparent way? The example of Slovenia, and even more of Estonia, which is far ahead of us in economic development, shows how much we need reforms that include abolishing mandatory membership in the chamber. If mandatory membership were abolished, do you think the president of the chamber would then consider hiring his children, children of his colleagues, party colleagues and their children and nephews, lovers and lovers. Here's how I respected gender equality. Hunting partners or questionable value experts. It is clear that it would not, since in this case, the president of the chamber would have to think on a daily basis and to think about how to earn income and how to spend and invest effectively. Then he could no longer have such a high salary without having to work behind it. If there were no results, he would not be able to kill elephants, rhinos, leopards and mufflons and open unsuspecting offices around the world, like Shanghai in China, we already have our embassy open in which economic advisers who conduct economic diplomacy are employed and as such are responsible to the department, the Department of Economic Affairs and Development Cooperation at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Croatia. The Office of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce is open in Shanghai. Now let's go back to the data. If you look at official data from the State Statistics Office exports from 2018 to 2019 p according to China dropped 20% from 990 million to 790 million kuna. If the costs of international fairs have increased and fairs are organised to promote the Croatian economy worldwide, entrepreneurs are asking who will be responsible for the 20% drop in exports to China. I didn't even analyze it in 2020 because of the covids. However, the Shanghai office and the general promotion of the Croatian economy are financed from mandatory membership fees paid by entrepreneurs. To make things worse, we also have an embassy in China with economic diplomacy and the Office of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, and our exports to the country fell 20% with increased costs of fairs. So was it not a more prudent decision to open the offices of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce in countries where our diaspora lives, which already pays 6% of GDP in advance? It may further improve economic co-operation with our emigrants, which is already our biggest investor and thus may return the investment of an open office. Argument number four. The only former Socialist country in the EU today that still has mandatory membership. And how did that happen? So it came that the Croatian Chamber of Commerce is not a controlled institution within the Republic of Croatia but is a very well-infused institution in the social capitalism that we are witnessing in these areas after Yugoslavia's collapse. The Republic of Croatia has never passed the transition that other countries in which the socialist governance model was in power. This also shows the fact that of all the countries that had socialism, and now the EU members are the only members of the Republic of Croatia still have a mandatory membership chamber. And I know now that there will be some smart-ass from the ranks of the ruling who will mention Austria and Germany as states that have mandatory membership fees. But apart from their chambers achieving significantly better results, they have a much longer tradition of competition, and besides that, we still have blood and mental heirs to the former failed system, which fails to adapt its way of action to what other EU countries have. The Croatian Chamber of Commerce does not represent, promote or coordinate the common interests of its members towards state bodies as it stands on the website, at least not as it should. From time to time, we have the opportunity to listen to some of the leading people of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce on public televisions where we can be sure that although there is a principled struggle for employers' interests, this struggle is almost never bearing fruit because the interesting links are too great for the leaders of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce to resolutely, consistently and courageously take those views that could allow a better legal framework for our entrepreneurs. The only situations when the chamber is a little tighter are situations where politics needs to be controlled by trade unions, but trade unions and employers have a common problem, and these are politicians without the courage to implement necessary reforms in the system. First of all, I mean the judiciary, digitising public administration services, corruption, etc. For years, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce has been charging mandatory fees to a large part of entrepreneurs who do not want to be forced members of an organisation they consider not to contribute to the development of their business. Argument number 5 of public authority, the fact is that a certain public authority in the form of an arbitration court and a peace centre has been transferred to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. However, the fact that as such, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce cannot simply be a market entity does not drink water. The first reason is that the Croatian Chamber of Commerce can function without some of these powers which best shows the fact that, for example, the Court of Honor in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce in the 10th month of 2020 was abolished because of the Corona's official decision. The main reason is that the court of honor was financially unsustainable. And it is questionable how many members of the Chamber of Public Authorities themselves are asked of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce when it is known that in the event of more serious misunderstandings or problems between companies there is commercial law and commercial courts. The government's argument does not stand so much that it would mean that everyone should be members of a police, judicial or teaching chamber because courts, police and schools have public authority. The remaining fewer problems entrepreneurs can solve between themselves, or the market itself, separates the good from the bad partners, for example, in the Nordic countries. In this context, this argument sounds like a simple cliché and an excuse and it is also important to note that the total amount of membership fees is far higher than the potential costs that such courts can generate on an annual basis. Before the conclusion, all of these are reasons why many entrepreneurs reject the Golden Kun simply do not want to be hunting trophies, stuffed rhinos or expensive Mona Lisa hanged on the wall of trombones and inefficientness of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. And in the end, I'm the conclusion. Removing mandatory membership does not mean abolishing membership. This legislative proposal aims to enable entrepreneurs to receive adequate services for their money that they have to pay under the law. The Croatian Chamber of Commerce is a coercively funded institution that exists only by the mercy of the government and a special legal regulation. Its operational activities do not have any foothold in the performance results and the will or satisfaction of its members. In addition, the business of the chamber is non-transparent and non-democratic and is intended primarily to entangle political counterparts and listeners. For the past 30 years, we have not seen a shift in business, nor in a vision announced by Mr Bulirovic since 2015 when he announced that revenues from his own activities would increase as a prerequisite for voluntary membership. Since these revenues have not increased in five years, there is no point in expecting that, in the following years, under the same leadership and conditions, something will change, and such a change is necessary in order to foster the reform of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and its development in the direction in which it should function as support to entrepreneurs who are its voluntary members. This bill essentially offers it. And finally, only thinking if Mr. Burilovic becomes the leader of Podravka, perhaps Mr. Tušek also becomes president of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30134	We have a lot of replicas, the first respected representative, Romana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30135	Your Honor, Mr. Troscott, after your presentation, I would particularly like to stress the main intention of abolishing the membership fee. Not only are they abolished, but these organisations become what they are intended for, which is helping entrepreneurs, craftsmen, employees. For now they are their own purpose and it is clear that they do not represent the interests of those who are members of these associations.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30136	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30137	I would agree with you for the reason why, we have seen from the very financial reports that 165 million earnings made before only 60 to 70% are spent on salary costs, some 90 million kuna is according to the latest data from the financial report. Also somewhere between 30 and 40 million kunas are spent on marketing costs, and we saw ourselves from this opening exhibition as much as not actually unported investment actually in fairies, for example in one Shanghai in China where the opening of this office at least in 2018, 19th, and now in the '20s, some 8 million kuna investments in external representations did not lead to export growth, which is the main objective of the Chamber of Commerce itself. Here's where I'm gonna stop for now, and I'm gonna further deepen my arguments.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30138	The next replica is Boška Ban Vlahek's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30139	Dear counterpart Troscott, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce by deciding to suspend the obligation to pay a membership fee to all companies that had to suspend their activity by decision of the Staff and Civil Protection, as well as all companies from the Sisak-Moslavina County affected by the earthquake, has shown that the membership fee under crisis circumstances is a burden and unnecessary cost. How do I think that this situation is a crisis for all economics? The same model should be applied to everything. Therefore, membership fees in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce should be voluntary for all members of the chamber. I believe you agree with me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30140	I absolutely agree with you and I think that if we looked aggregately in the last ten years of what money was spent on is definitely being entrepreneurs who are the main ones who spend that money would disagree to go to expensive pictures, to stuffed animals, to buy certain objects that today do not serve their purpose and should have been certain educational centres. So we can now go into the history of these investments and we will see that they were not in line with the desires of entrepreneurs or that they did not help them in an adequate way to invest that institution. So at this point, there are two models as it's settled in the world. So, German where more countries are involved, while on the other hand we have an Anglo-Saxon which is more market-oriented. At this moment, Croatia is located in a limbo where entrepreneurs from the market pay that money, but the service they require from the chamber do not get back.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30141	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30142	Dear colleague Troscott, I would not agree with all the allegations you have given in particular on the role of the chamber in a past system, because I remember much more than many of you here younger. Thus, it is not nice to give grades for something that worked on another system. But it doesn't matter now. The Croatian Peasant Party Club, the Croatian Retirement Party, will support your proposal and the proposal to make membership on a voluntary basis. Just don't expect people, entrepreneurs to find some new structures, some new institutions. They will continue to revolve around the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, but will have the opportunity to negotiate their services which is much better than to pay mandatory membership fees. So I am for competition, we are for competition, we are for liberalisation, and we are to finally be Someone proves work, not that they have safe incomes. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30143	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30144	When I talked about the former systems, there was more of a way of thinking that remained. I have not touched the very operational activities, the socialism in which we lived or touched earlier periods because we all know that the Croatian Chamber of Commerce has existed for some 150 years. However, there are other economic chambers of 150, 160 years, especially those of the former socialist system that have now passed on to capitalism. And on the other hand, they managed to make this one transformation, they were able to optimise their business and because they did not, these chambers do not exist because of the will of the ruling or because of some forced memberships. So they even optimised the number of their own, so clients to whom they provide services. So I've more analyzed the last 30 years in which it's obvious that they haven't been transparently and optimizedly spent funds by entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30145	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30146	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Troscott, you have, in your explanation, quite detailedly analysed the role, importance and arguments of why you decided to go with this amendment and the addition of the law. But it seems to me that another aspect might have remained under the radar a little while while Prime Minister Plenkovic is in charge of radar. So these are properties owned by the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. So, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce not only has property owned in the city of Zagreb that we have the opportunity to see, but they have property owned in the area I would say Europe and the world. We had a chance even recently, recently, about five, ten years ago when it was being bought, when it was being shipped. And now there is what they are, which is actually explained if it were a voluntary membership then, or membership, what would happen with real estate. But that's all settled. List and see what we need because we have embassies paying rent somewhere, and we have in the same land of property owned used by the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30147	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30148	Thank you very much for asking. I'd agree with you. I would just like to remind you of a vision from Mr Burilovic dating back to 2015 where he speaks alone about the vision of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce that he should be more based on voluntary membership. In this sense, our proposal, which is more market-oriented, would force the Croatian Chamber of Commerce itself to produce its own incomes, which would be more focused on finding new jobs for the Croatian Chamber of Commerce or on finding, say, or selling data files that modern business today makes a lot of business. And I think that even then, even better and even more effectively, you'd spend money on real estate and maybe you wouldn't be opening an office in Shanghai that we see are not rentable for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30149	Next replica, distinguished representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30150	Dear colleague Troscott, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Well, I'm sorry, colleague, that you've joined this post with a democratic motion to bring down institutions, where we want to weaken institutions and we don't have a solution to what. If Austria, Germany, Italy has a mandatory membership, these are 4 out of 10 countries of the EU funds net payer. So, the ones that give the funds that we use. Well, there's something about it. Correct 390 employees not 550. Speaking of China, the chamber has just had some activity in obtaining these masks that the prime minister has secured with the Prime Minister of China. Therefore, be careful and careful. And I will at the reception of the Austrian Chamber of Commerce of Dual Education.../incomprehensible/... institute in an individual debate why there is a reason for the chamber to survive. Be careful what you do when you tear down institutions, you'll cry after them, don't get that tradition so easily understood for which voice extra and populism.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30151	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30152	As I said at the very beginning, this is not about destroying an institution, so the companies themselves could choose whether they would like to remain members but would then choose whether they would like to pay, whether they would like to pay for membership or not, and then receive certain services. I would, for example, give other examples of chambers, such as one Estonia, Slovenia, Denmark, Finland, Belgium and France, which you did not mention, and on the other hand Austria and Germany mentioned here again I will return to the argument. One Austria has $200m per employee in the chamber while Germany you mentioned has 700m per employee, Croatia only 25. Okay, we can agree in the fact that Germany and Austria are the most developed countries, one of Europe's most developed countries, but on the other hand, the question arises that one Slovenia with whom we lived together or one Estonia has a 12th and 18th time better result than the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30153	Next replica, the esteemed representative of the Domagoj Story.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30154	My dear colleague, I agree with you that the mandatory membership fee for the Croatian Chamber of Commerce should be abolished. I ask you, is there any will in the Chamber of Commerce itself to do this because you mentioned that the President of the Chamber of Commerce has a vision of volunteering, voluntary membership in the future? I wonder if he specified what the exact date would be if his vision was fulfilled?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30155	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30156	As far as Mr Burilovic is concerned, this vision may be fulfilled now that he has moved potentially to Podravka and Mr. Tušek comes, perhaps. So, on your question, so this vision is still dating back to 2015, now whether it was a public statement, but here I repeat, he said I have to point out that the transition to voluntary membership is the vision of the new leadership of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. I think it's more the will of politics because it's because it's actually the will of the ruling whoever was actually in power to use that institution for incarceration. Here I must boast that none of the other members of the Most received the opportunity to work in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, so here we are, here we are, the exception.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30157	Next replica, the distinguished representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30158	Your esteemed colleague's intruding is yours to abolish mandatory membership. However, I do not know if you have pointed out enough that 97% of the members and members of the chamber are actually paying only 42 kunas per month and that it is actually a very symbolic amount to be paid, and in this way the chamber is actually an important institution that is very much helping and enabling and providing certain support to the government and, in fact, giving suggestions when certain legislative proposals are needed. Also the chambers have some of us and over 200 years of tradition according to this is what I think this way very, very uncomfortable. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30159	Thank you very much for these arguments. Let's go back to two parts. I need to share my arguments. Under number one, I notice the same rhetoric with you and with Mr Burilovic the only difference is that you use symbolically, and he only uses it. But let's get back to square one. When you add up all the non-payments of 42 kuna membership fees that you say monthly, at the annual level of all businesses it is 165 million kuna per year and a billion kuna per year in 10 years. When you take the aggregated everything these companies put in the pool, then you can't just talk about symbolic amounts. And on the other hand, the question of how did you say symbolic or only amounts were spent, so safaris, images, etc., certain properties that we mentioned. They said that the Croatian Chamber of Commerce is 150 years old, British is 160 years old, Slovenian 160 years of age, Czech Republic 170 years old, Hungary 170 years old and Poland's first marks date back to 1809 when it was Prussia. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30160	Next replica, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30161	Thank you very much. Parafiscal inducements in the Republic of Croatia destroy entrepreneurs, craftsmen who want to work fair, earn and pay for their work. The question in this case is crucial to what the purpose of the Chamber of Commerce is. Who do they serve? Did the question of fellow Troscott be asked here if they were privileged, have any privileged information? They're also at privatisation. So wherefore did they steal all that they had done from them, and destroyed those who were righteous, and those who did not do so? In the privatisation, they had privileged information who knew what they were doing and sawed. And says a colleague from HDZ just now, you're a member of the board, and they, through privileged information, destroyed from the Croatian telecommunications of all our.../incomprehensible/... until I don't know what, all destroyed, absolutely near the privileged information she had. The Chamber of Commerce, Nadan Vidosevic and similar. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30162	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30163	Dear Mr. Bully, I'd like to say what you just said one sentence, and then I'm finished with the argument, and the sentence is like this. Billions of kunas that you have touched are evidence that the racket in the Republic of Croatia is legal if it is carried out by the state. So, it's a symbolic amount and that's what hurts our entrepreneurs most, it's not a problem in giving itself, it's a question, first of all, that under number 1 is being forced by these entrepreneurs, so they didn't get a question of whether they wanted it or not or 2 of these symbolic or just amounts that in the aggregated amount of more than one billion kuna in 10 years were spent irrationalally on trips, I personally watched in Buenos Aires as it seems, at the opening of an office in which they are not rentable, I wish they were, but they weren't. We even gave a constructive solution so that these offices might have been better if they had been open, for example, in a Chicago where our own lives. Our diaspora that could then help our economy even more. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30164	Next replica, the esteemed representative Marko Milanović litre.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30165	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleague Troscott, I believe that we can agree that the intention of HGK is essentially good, but we know that the road to hell is filled with good intentions, and right now there are small and medium entrepreneurs and craftsmen in Croatia. HGK's mandatory membership is just one panel on that road to hell where our privates are now. Croatian sovereigns will do their best to impose everything parafiscal, including this mandatory membership in HGK, on the legal path. As you said yourself, this is not an attack on the institution, this is how to improve their work to be more efficient and serve their purpose, and we all know that state firms and state institutions lack it. We'll support this proposal anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30166	Dear Mr. litre, thank you for this comment. The most important intensities of this approach, therefore, this bill was in fact the release of additional funds or liquidity for the Croatian economy which is very fragile and which is in a very difficult situation. And we think that it's actually one of the items within.../incomprehensible... to get the losses that we should unload to further pump money into our economy that needs to be started now. This when you say good intentions, I think that this is now a great opportunity for all the parties here, I am not only talking here about the opposition, but also about the position for the reason that I think there are a lot of MPs here who are thinking about the way of the free market so that we can all unite here and help under number 1 and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, but also our entrepreneurs who need the funds we want to free ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30167	The next replica is the esteemed representative Danica Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30168	Thank you very much. A respected colleague of Troscott's law required membership really makes sense which is present in Croatia and so in many other foreign chambers, is based on its many roles, objectives, tasks, enables the institution to function and maintain its regular activities, to carry out verified, entrusted public powers, and, most importantly, enables equal representation of the interests of all its members by the principle of one member, one vote, and not only the specific interests of certain large companies or individual industrial branches. This can only work if everyone participates in the financing of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce membership, which is 42 kunas per month, avoiding higher taxes and other public taxes, so by law the prescribed membership ensures the political neutrality of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, guarantees its independence, and compulsory membership ensures that all regional stakeholders, regardless of their size and influence, can express their interests and that they are professionally represented.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30169	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30170	So, as far as the Croatian Chamber of Commerce itself is concerned, it is currently in one limbo between the two models we mentioned, so the first one is German, the second one is Anglo-Saxon. Whether, whether the Croatian Chamber of Commerce should be fully defined as a German model, but then fully and fully applied in terms of efficiency, it is now a question that we can discuss here, but it is not seen on the very results where, for example, if you look at the export of an employee in a chamber in Austria and Germany, and when compared with Croatia, we are clearly inefficient. If we're going to use this, this second model that we're using, then again we're inefficient because when we look at the chamber parameters of millions of people and compare it to one of Slovenia and Estonia that are quite comparable countries, especially Slovenia, which we've lived with, and also Estonia, which is somewhere by the number of residents there, so they've released membership fees and have again succeeded in the intentions that we're proposing here to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30171	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a distinguished representative of Katica Glamuzina.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30172	Thank you. Article 238 demeaning MPs I believe it was probably not intentional but I believe that a prominent colleague is called Troscott, not Troskok.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30173	Okay. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30174	Thank you. My colleague Troscott, so I agree with you that the concept that HGK is leading economic diplomacy is totally missed for a lot of reasons, and some examples of you are instructions, but it's missed because that double function, it overlaps, and we actually achieved nothing. We have diplomacy, economic diplomacy, though, in turn, that's what this government has been trying to transfer everything to HGK. Although, in order to have successful economic diplomacy, you must have an economy, and we haven't really celebrated anything. But the role of HGK in diplomacy or in economic diplomacy must be something else, and this is what you talked about, fairing, etc. things and contacts that come true through our embassies because it's the only channel if we're going to talk about some serious economic diplomacy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30175	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30176	Dear colleague Hajdukovic, I would like to thank you for this question, and above all I had the opportunity to watch what it looks like in Buenos Aires at a large tourism fair where our representatives from the Croatian Tourist Board and the Chamber of Commerce came and in the way that Croatian products were sold and represented Croatian tourism better not to mention what I had the opportunity to watch. So, regardless of what is far from Argentina, but in the way we have accessed the sale of our services and products there, tourism above all was not worth the tickets to Buenos Aires, so all the officials who went there. Next, here's an example of China. So there's what you said about the ineffectiveness of the administration. We already have our embassy there that should have economic diplomacy and it's already been paid for. But on the other hand, we also have the Office of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. At the end of the day there is a 20% drop in exports, which is one of the basic postulates and economic diplomacy, and on the other hand the Chamber of Commerce. Our question is only who is responsible for this export drop?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30177	The next replica is the distinguished representative Anita Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30178	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Representative Troscott, I wonder if you have done some research or a survey among members at least on a sample from which their preferences for continuing payment would be visible in the preparation of the law on the suspension of the mandatory membership fee to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce? And do you expect a reduction in the number of members and by how much? And did you, as a promoter, also take into account the positive effects of the work of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce as one of the oldest NGOs on the territory of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the fact that of the 390 employees of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, 66% of women and about 85% of highly educated persons who, by accepting such a bill, would remain a good part of them and without a job? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30179	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30180	Here's just an example for you. We've done some research, but for the purposes of this exposure here, I'm going to give you a few examples. Lucian Caric, co-owner of the IT company Defensecode, rejected the Golden Kuna. Viktor Marohnic, co-founder of the mega-successful IT company Five also refused to receive the award and no good experiences with the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. Leon Juranic DefenseCode refused the Golden Kun, and Zoran Salopek, who was president of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce Association, also said he disagreed with the forced payment of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and left the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. At this point, as we are now exhibiting more than 22,000 people signed a petition of the Association The Voice of Entrepreneurs who disagree with the business of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, and the number will be even higher on Friday, and then we will do the same if there will be opportunities to present it to the Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30181	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure by Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30182	I, the Honorable Chairman, gave a violation of the Rules of Procedure to the distinguished HDZ representative at the previous exposure to the violations of the Rules of Procedure, so I can only say that I am withdrawing the violation of the Rules of Procedure that the researcher was Nadan Vidosevic. He delivered us to the Bridge Club, so we based it on this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30183	So it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you're getting a warning. Please don't comment. ... [[We didn't understand you anyway, so...]] Further next replica, the distinguished representative Marina Opačak Bilic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30184	Thank you. Dear fellow here I would like to make more comments than a question, and I would, of course, support this proposal of yours because we agree, when you are somewhere in the membership and when you pay the membership fee, you expect that institution to fight for you, that through it you are realising and that you are accomplishing both your common interests and your own interests. It should be so with the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, but it is not. If law enforcement employers are required to pay membership fees, then it would be more than expected for the HGK to work in the interest of its membership, especially if the HGK budget and its not a small number of employees to live on the basis of more than 80% of the income that the HGK receives from membership fees. I believe that we also agree that institutions have to earn trust just as people do, and it is time for the HGK to stop being forced into the service of enslaving similar personnel and become a voluntary and independent association. The Chamber in the service of its members of the users i.e. Employers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30185	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30186	I would agree with your finding of a distinguished colleague of parliament and I would agree only on these revenues you said that 90 million kuna goes to pay in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce or between 60 and 70% of all costs present in the balance sheet or profit and loss account, and 25% are marketing costs. In this whole model, never entrepreneurs, or this poll that a colleague asked, have ever been asked if this is exactly how this money should be spent, should this 90 million kuna cost really be present or, say, marketing costs. If you look at one of the items of marketing costs and presentations there you will see that around the annual cost of posters, checkers, gold catalogues between 2 and 3 million kunas per year, which means in 10 years we spent 20 to 30 million kuna on unnecessary marketing costs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30187	Okay. That's what we've finished your replicas with. Does the board have a word? Is anyone picking up? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first one came to the debate by a respected representative, Domagoj Ivan Milosevic, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30188	Dear Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary. I think the fact that although it is quite late in the Croatian Parliament we are discussing the Croatian Chamber of Commerce has something to say about that the chamber we are discussing is not any economic association or any Croatian institution. I'd like to be crystal clear at first. Tonight, first of all, I have no intention of defending a chamber like this today, but I will defend the necessity of the chamber surviving, and we in HDZ think that the survival of the chamber depends on mandatory membership. And secondly, mandatory membership is not equal to fixed annual membership fees. I'll do it again. So mandatory membership in HGK is not and should not be the same as the fixed annual membership fee. Now we're going in a row. Yesterday we are on the Committee on Economy I think we from HDZ have been more critical of the work of the chamber than many of you from the opposition. My impression is that here are the modest ten years in politics, 30 years in business, that on this right hand side there is much more conversation with entrepreneurs and craftsmen on the daily level than on the left, with all due respect to everyone. So we know the mood of entrepreneurs and craftsmen toward a chamber like this today. This chamber we have today is unfortunately back in the 20th century, it has a bad perception of entrepreneurs. Most look at her as a burden, not as what she should be and that's support. And in the end, it's not a matter of 42 swearing a month regardless of the size of the company. It's a feeling when an entrepreneur pays for what he pays for. So there's no dilemma at all about this chamber being changed, that it needs to completely change the way it's run, but we don't think it's necessary to bring that institution down. We will repeat that in HDZ we consider that voluntary membership, and here is not a colleague Troscott's speech for a long time, not that some of the reasons and arguments are not rational. We still believe that fully voluntary membership is the way to collapse of the chamber and the entire chamber system, and this is not only the Croatian Chamber of crafts, but also the Croatian Chamber of crafts. And let's see at the same time that Austria, Germany, Austria is our closest to having a super-successful chamber system. And I will say quite personally to me it is not acceptable never to admit defeat that Austrians should be smarter and more capable than us, so they can have a super-successful, capable chamber that their entrepreneurs praise, and we Croats can't do that. So that's the last thing I'll ever accept. The note of Bene is exactly ten times the cost of the Austrian chamber national. There's a Bundesländer there, and then there's the expense separately. The national chamber costs entrepreneurs two billion kuna from the euro, 270m euros, so two billion kuna. It's our 200 million kuna circus. The Austrian economy is eight times bigger than it is Croatian. Speaking of traditions, we mentioned today's tradition. The Croatian Chamber of Commerce has 168 years of tradition. Unfortunately, we will agree today on this path of development to become a strong modern chamber such as this Austrian or German. And what is more important than the tradition itself especially at this time of covida and post covida and honestly I am not even sure that this is a time when entrepreneurs are particularly small and micro entrepreneurs, craftsmen on their knees from different sectors. So, is now the best time to discuss something that's 168 years old in this way I'm not sure, but in the end, every crisis is an opportunity, and then in that context we need to discuss. I'm very sorry that this cannot be turned into a debate. So unfortunately there's no replica of what I'm saying and I'm actually sorry. I said more important than tradition is today for entrepreneurs, it's that HGK should become a reliable and smart platform. First of all, I think there should be a platform because there is no other platform in Croatia in which, within one institutional framework, states and entrepreneurs will be co-operated, not only by the Government, but by all levels of government to the last municipality. I think it's important for both sides. I think only in this country's cooperation at all levels and all kinds of administrations and entrepreneurs on the other hand can we speed up economic recovery and move on. Secondly, I think the HGK should be a platform to help the government and export entrepreneurs. So HGK helps, but entrepreneurs export, and exports are primarily the cornerstone of national competitiveness and economy, and not now some individuals who do their job worse or better. I've got a personal experience in the chamber, so maybe if I can get a chance to say something about it, too. I'm still a much longer businessman than a politician. And there is no doubt that this platform is such a modern, different chamber that I think it should actually bring a whole new energy into Croatian economic diplomacy and help the rest of the ministry. Third, I think that this modern different HGK can be a platform that will bring Europe's policies closer than just European money to the maximum. There's too often talk in the Parliament today, and otherwise, with just so much money, they're important. Money's just a tool. The tool is as good as you know how to use it well. But therefore European policies are important because the covid and post-covid period that will surely change the economy and the whole world in a completely different direction already clearly. I think a modern chamber could help our entrepreneurs and all of us. There's a lot more, but now we don't have that kind of time. I said I had a personal experience. That personal experience was so frustrating, though sometimes in a much better time there were two thousand years until at one point I decided out of pure frustration to actually go to the chamber and ask for what I needed without expecting anything. And I was pleasantly surprised. I want to say in the end a few people with a positive attitude helped on one market, I'm not going to say which one. We had some problems and weren't just exporting characters, but also a judicial, not so far from Croatia. So, here is no need to make decisions on the basis of some bad people, bad governance, both on the majority and on the entire institutions. What I really think the chamber needs is three key changes. First, total transparency, first of all financial. This means that on the chamber website every entrepreneur, every citizen, each of us can see at any moment every last and every last kuna that is spent and spent. There have been these costs in the media, indeed, unfortunately for every conviction. I'm not gonna pick it up right now, but there's been a lot of bullshit. It just gets rid of it. You put every expense and every hundred kuna on the Chamber portal, people have an insight into it first and foremost entrepreneurs who pay for it. Secondly, it is clear that the reorganisation needs to be a complete transformation if the Chamber wants to make itself a modern, smart institution for the benefit of all Croatian entrepreneurs. It means that there should be clear goals, measurable, key indicators of the success of the sector, the chamber, and especially those that represent the great cost of the Chamber, which are representative offices outside Croatia. And in the end, the most important, and this is the complete turn and dedication of the Chamber as long as entrepreneurs or absolutely large, large, large majority do not feel that it is their house and that they are welcome there and feel good when they mention the HGK, and of this whole business nothing. Here we are deeply aware of everything that is not right in the Chamber today. We know what needs to be done, it should be done, but we do not think that the way to end voluntary membership is. I will repeat my voluntary membership once again or mandatory membership is not the same as the fixed annual cost for entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30189	The next debate is on behalf of MP Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30190	Here's my colleague and colleagues, I don't see why this size, I don't see any reason, I can think about why this kind of resistance of HDZ towards the Croatian Chamber of Commerce to volunteer membership and to abolish mandatory membership fees. Maybe a fellow Milosevic gave his reason. He's 2000. ... and solved the problem. [[You don't understand.]] Maybe that's when he joined the HDZ. I don't know what he came by for. Because I can't, no, I can't understand at all the reasons why 500 imposes in the Republic of Croatia on the parafiscal economy, which is why people go to third countries, which is why there is no normal competition, but 500 parafiscal imposes. How many are there? Why? For who? To Nadan Vidosevic and similar to him? So I wonder if these institutions were protecting the businessmen or with this privileged information they destroyed the Croatian economy and created empires for themselves? So it all fell apart. So we put national security at risk when they took over our telecommunications and infrastructure. Well, what your parents, my father, paid me and the older ones who paid me a stranger across our country, and they don't pay for the right of service. And progressed, of course, by the Chamber of Commerce and there they are. Director of HT, Telecom, ask who knows what. So here the question is crucial, the key question is whether such burdens are helping, do such burdens and burdens help our businesses that are mandatory? This is an obligation. This is not a matter of volunteering. And what are the results in the Croatian economy on this issue other than the monopoly of certain groups in all spheres and the political system that is simply controlled through chambers of commerce and other chambers? As well as the Tourist Community, we have chambers for the village, peasants in agriculture. Never worse agriculture. Never worse economy. Well, I can't entrepreneurs, so the entrepreneurs themselves have rebelled, I'm saying that I'm not an entrepreneur and they often say that I have attitudes as even economically that I'm the leftmost in the Parliament even know to tell me, even I'm being attacked by the liberal positions and portals that I'm the leftmost parliamentary representative who showed up on the economic point of view. That's how they look at it. But there is no logic, no results from this Chamber of Commerce except Nadan Vidosevic and a couple... Because 60% of the salary of a billion kunas they spend on their own expenses. [[You don't understand.]] I do not see that we have any results that our economy has progressed, that we are using more EU funds. We didn't do that either, we couldn't do that either. What have the entrepreneurs helped us to do? What other than having this entrepreneur open up to pay for it? It's too much pressure on my Bridge Club, and I think it's time to finally get your hands off the door that the entrepreneurs are strangling. Well, he can't come to my Dalmatian prison with so much inkling. And as time goes on, we're running out of labour because of these duties. And now the entrepreneur wants to come instead of completely disbursing them, come down to the Dalmatian Zagora, in Slavonia, in Gorski Kotar you do not need any burdens, but we will give you subsidies. Of course HSLS will accept this as liberals, I expect. So we can't function like this. What's important in my Zagora, in the Gorski Kotar? It's a job. In Slavonia, the most important job is right now. If we want an entrepreneur, then we have to relieve him to open that job. We have to encourage him. I'm talking about undeveloped areas now. Well, that Chamber of Commerce doesn't do anything about it. ... One legal proposal because they said we're giving up, we're asking that membership be not paid, say, in these undeveloped areas of the economy and entrepreneurs. [[You don't understand.]] No, because they don't care. Well, that all works for you ladies and gentlemen on the principle of club in Slavonska 9, that's how everything works and that's where decisions are made, and they live well on mandatory membership fees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30191	Replicated representative Marina Opačak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30192	Thank you. Here's to your presentation of colleagues I don't have a replica. I agree with you, but since I know that you and your colleague Bulj always have little to discuss not 10 but... In five minutes, here's another minute from me. [[You don't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30193	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for this proposal. Give my regards to Slavonia and Slavons, and I hope you will use your minutes more to fight for Slavonia. I hope and expect, and here I am opening up some space for you so that you can pick up, say, individually on behalf of the club, because Slavons call me that you Slavonia MPs usually call. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30194	The next replica is Domagoj Ivan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30195	Thank you. Well, I agree with you, Comrade Bull, in the vast majority of what you said. I've been in politics for 10 years, and for more than 20 years in business, I've been pushing for hundreds of imposes to be lifted. However, the difference between the HGK and the HOK of the craft chamber should not and should not be imposed. You know when a company fails, that company doesn't fail because here's the workers who ruined it, but those who run it. So those who operate are responsible and the reason why the company should fail or not do it well. And in the end, I'm going to tell you honestly, I couldn't say it on behalf of the club, I think I should give the opportunity once again to reform this HGK after 168 years, restructure and turn it into some modern Austrian type of chamber, and I'm going to give it a chance today and after 10 years of politics my brain and heart are entrepreneurial, I'm going to if we fail here first to support that then go in this direction that you proposed today.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30196	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30197	I understand. Now, fellow Milosevic, you want to vote for this, right? That you support not to be a mandatory membership member, but you'll see you'll vote. I'm expecting it. In two years, and in two years. Whether there will be entrepreneurs in at least two years to continue with this kind of behavior towards entrepreneurs, that is the key question of whether to impose this much. If there's this kind of intrusion. And I expect from you, in particular, that you are entrepreneurs who have been through who you are through your business, to support this on behalf of all the entrepreneurs who cry out loud to support this. Here, and I expect mainly from entrepreneurs who are still among you to be much louder and to shout even more clearly on behalf of those people who are fighting for jobs, in fact, giving us wages and creating new values.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30198	The next replica is representative Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30199	Thank you, Chairman. I'm listening to a fellow Bull a few things inside this debate. So, first of all, what I don't understand is that the number one person is aware that the Chamber is doing bad. Number two, that the Chamber earns income, and the highest of 70% of the membership fees that are mandatory. Number three, does not provide services qualitatively to those who pay those membership fees. They also impose the obligation to pay the same, and all under cover of taking care of those who listen. It's for me if I understood all of this very well, very scary Croatian reality.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30200	And it could be them. ... The reigning keep repeating the same story. [[You don't understand.]] We raise the opposition a little bit. They should be even louder, and stronger, and stronger and more united, mainly liberal policy options such as HSLS, and the IDS is called on to be liberal. I can see they're silent now because they have stakes in another. They have in the tourist community IDS, they have other districts which they hold and silently support the meaning of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. But that's what we need to speak out loud. Don't shut up. A colleague of mine was well-intentioned just before she told you here's another minute. We keep our mouths shut. The silence has led to what is happening around the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, which has strangled with 500 charges, is one of these HGKs and which is strangling our economy. And we have to yell, because the economy pays us and maintains the system and if we don't release the entrepreneurs then it will end up in Ireland and it will fail.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30201	Next replica Anita Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30202	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Representative Bulj, we heard tonight, and it is also known that around 97% of the members of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce are paying a membership fee of 42 kuna per month. They stayed in a group of thousands of kunas or about 3900. It is evident from this that the Chamber is mainly concerned with small business entities which would otherwise be either inaccessible or overpriced. It also serves as a lobbying channel, information provider, education organizer, fairs, exhibitions, etc. So the transition in a new way of funding raises the question of whether the Chamber of Commerce will continue to serve everyone or just members? And will for a while you or some other critics blame HDZ's majority who have accepted such changes that they have turned it into an aerospace facility that only provides services to the privileged?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30203	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30204	I'm not just a critic. I am a parliamentary representative, as far as I know, legally elected by preferential votes. And I believe this is everything he's exhibited on behalf of the Club of Col. Troscott as an expert, as a person with competences and who knows the matter most of us here as far as this part is concerned. Therefore, I have no reason to do this all that he said on behalf of the club to doubt. But I do know that the Croatian Chamber of Commerce is not helping our economy and it is visible and the entrepreneurs are visible from the results. And why are entrepreneurs rebelling? What's up with them? Well, the impositions are huge for these people, impose. We have to do everything we can to disburse the entrepreneur for every job. I repeat, in order to save every job we have to unload. You're talking about 40 kunas. Where'd you get that kind of capital? Here's what I mentioned to the president. I'm not going to mention him to the HGK anymore so he doesn't mind. I'm sorry he wouldn't mind. Probably won't even clean potatoes like some did. The more he steals from us, the smaller bag of potatoes you have to clean up.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30205	Time. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30206	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Bulj, therefore, we have had the opportunity to hear that HDZ, or the gentleman who was a parliamentary representative, who on behalf of HDZ, said that HDZ could also agree that a modern, open, transparent Croatian Chamber of Commerce would be wanted, but that this is not the time. Only question is, when is the time? Is it time for 5 years, 10 years, and the question is, should life always be trusted by someone's eyes or their own words? Just like that, always drinking turns a little upside down. I didn't see anywhere in the proposal that you went towards this House to propose the abolition of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. The Croatian Chamber of Commerce remains. She will continue to do what the law has decreed. You're the only one who's proposing under other conditions, and that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30207	And we made some kind of suggestion. Here's your amendment. I'm in for a lift, I'll back him up. Here's some more time. We're still gonna keep it. We still have a real break. As far as I'm concerned, I'd personally abolish, but they've reached a conclusion on a voluntary basis in fact that whoever wants to pay from the entrepreneurs, it's like abolishing. As far as I'm concerned, I would've lifted it myself. Here I am myself. Of course, my teammates from the club estimated that on a voluntary basis, whoever wants to pay, whoever wants to pay, and I personally agree, and I ask everyone here that as far as I'm concerned, give me an amendment, I'll vote in favour. Here's to me. Make sure I wait, no problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30208	Next replica, Mr. Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30209	Dear colleague Bulj, I know you've pointed out a great deal about employment, corruption, and certain nepotisms in your area, and what at national level. I speak only in principle of your position now. If that happens, do you think Mr Burilovic, based on the results he has earned, deserves to become the leader of Podravka? And do you think Mr. Tušek could become president of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce? And that's what I'm asking you for because I know that it's been involved or maybe even run the Chamber of Commerce at regional level. So to sum up the question, do you see Mr Burilovic as a person who could lead Podravka and Mr Tušek as a Croatian Chamber of Commerce? Here's your opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30210	Well, maybe that's what you said. Nothing would be weird, so I can't grade. But Mr. Tušek shows the negotiating abilities of high quality. He would do very well and do his job according to what the one who is above him intended for him. Doesn't matter if it's Jadranka Kosor, is it Prime Minister Plenkovic or someone else. And the rest can be. I mean, maybe that's exactly what you said. I don't know. We're gonna need it. I'll check it out. You probably have some information, so maybe here's a colleague from HDZ or the government who might know if this is the exact information that this is asking as a question a colleague of the Troscotts. I think that with the quality of negotiating abilities that are unprecedented, but there are these qualities in the negotiations of local, county counties of these, there are plenty of individuals who could do these jobs very well in line, and even Nadan Vidosevic might be ashamed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30211	Next debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives Bridge representative Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30212	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of the Republic of Croatia who look at us through the screen. I volunteered to re-expose these arguments because Mr. Pavić said that we should update the data and immediately go to the analysis, so just to see if the arguments that we had exposed made sense or whether they were as valid and with changed data. Because the fact is that the Croatian Chamber of Commerce has gone into certain restructured solutions in the past few months. And here we have even done the calculations speedily and if the case is that the Croatian Chamber of Commerce has 390 employees. But before I go, I'd like to make a few more points here. We believe that this is an extremely important reform, although Mr Bulja's personal position was to abolish the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, it was not a good option in our club's own vote, but we believe that the mandatory membership of the Chamber of Commerce should therefore be abolished because the Chamber of Commerce as such must exist. Only with this kind of market thinking would it actually come into Mr Burilovic's vision that he himself said that the vision of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce itself came from incomes generated on the basis of mandatory membership fees that are at this point about 70 percent and that this membership fee is reduced, on the other hand, to raise the revenues generated from the sale of their own products or services. At this point, I would like to call once again on all parties, and the position and opposition to support this bill because it would be one of the first reforms that we could really implement and that we could help our entrepreneurs who are actually bleeding at this point. Just another little note. We haven't forgotten our craftsmen either. However, it was not possible to collect signatures for entrepreneurs and craftsmen, and here we give word to our craftsmen that this will be one of our future initiatives. So, in the first argument, what we were already saying, so the Croatian Chamber of Commerce itself has been considering since 2015 this vision of the future of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce that should be in the future. What we believe in the Most is that this transition should be gradual, but it should have started since 2015. And what we see from the financial reports is the fact that the structure of income between membership fees and on the other hand the sale of services by the Chamber itself has not changed, and therefore we insist that this way that would actually curb corruption is adequate for the reason that then President Komor would be forced to think that a real person in the Chamber comes to him in a position that is measurable, which can do this job in a way that the Croatian Chamber of Commerce at the end of the year will not be lost but in profits like the chambers of the countries of Slovenia, Estonia, Singapore or Britain, Denmark, the Czech Republic, Poland, etc. So the second argument is what we have updated on Mr Pavić's remarks and thank him for that observation, so the fact that the HGK has dismissed certain workers in the last month, two days, so we have automatically updated those data accordingly. So, the EU moves between 200 million dollars in Austria and 700 million dollars in exports per employee, it remains the same in Germany, and in the HGK we now have 30 million dollars when the data is changed, which is still a very small data compared to when compared to Germany and Austria that have, or should have, a similar model as Austria and Germany, although we are stuck between market-oriented chambers and one of Germany and Austria that have mandatory membership. Furthermore, what we have further updated is that at this time Slovenia does not have 12 times as much as 9 to 10 times the result of our chamber and that Estonian has between 14 and 15 times the result of the 18 that we were presenting in the first finding. In this sense, Estonia creates a commodity export that is equal to Croatia and remains with three times the population and in their chamber is employed to emphasize only 30 employees, and in our case what Mr. Pavić said 390. Furthermore, the second argument here is the number of employees per million inhabitants also when compared countries such as Slovenia which has 55 employees per million population, Estonia 24, Austria has 90 of our chambers when changing data instead of the 130 we have presented has 110, but still remains inefficient on data. As for the very efficiency of the chamber's business, we have indicated that it is inefficient and that 8 million kunas spent on foreign representations, for example, the one located in Shanghai, so that this office as such is not profitable. It's not profitable because there's an embassy of our own and there's an economic section where people are employed. And on the other hand, when we have both the Chamber of Commerce and, on the other hand, the embassy or people who deal with economic diplomacy, when we have a drop in exports, I think it's 20% of us think it's a double administration and that, in that sense, given the situation we're in, we should choose either one or the other. So we can't have each other and a 20% drop in exports, and on the other hand we have an increase in the cost of fairs. So we invested more than in 2019 and 18, respectively, in '20. And in '19, however, we haven't achieved a better result. Of course, 2020. It was turned off because of the crown and there we were fair in terms of the analysis itself. Furthermore, we remain as one single Member State of the Socialist country in the EU, and I am speaking that still has mandatory membership. So, as for the argument that compulsory membership has Austria and Germany, these are still countries that achieve much significantly better results which we have already shown in the analysis of the efficiency of these two chambers, and on the other hand have a much longer tradition of competition. Furthermore, as far as the public authorities themselves are concerned, we heard the same thing as an argument, but we saw for ourselves that the HGK was in the 10th month of 2020. The Court of Justice has abolished the honor that has often been cited as an argument why the HGK should continue to have a mandatory membership fee which we do not honestly see as a connection. On the other hand, however, what is interesting is that Mr Burilovic himself said that the main reason why the Court of Honor is abolished is that it is financially unsustainable. There is, again, a question of why this Court of Justice should honour such public authority and should be financed by the entrepreneurs themselves, for the reasons that any problems and disputes are always resolved on the basis of commercial law, on the other hand, in the Nordic models or in the Nordic countries themselves, the partners are already, in themselves, separated into good and bad in the very context of business. In that sense, there is a real conclusion that all these are reasons why many entrepreneurs reject the Golden Kuna, we cited some of them, so m feet of IT companies that have now started to bloom, Croatia slowly becomes a start up nation such as Israel, as we had opportunities to watch with Infobip, Nanobit, and others and Romans so we break into global markets from small local companies become unicorns in which foreign companies recognise and invest money in our companies. For example, the companies I cited were certainly not sold or bought because the HGK acted there, but the people of the entrepreneurs themselves, who went on the basis of the competition, achieved good results recognised by the external investors and in that sense the entrepreneur was taken, let's say, by the HGK itself. The main message of this bill is that since the HGK is not acting commercially, it cannot be a doctor who would understand the patient, only when it begins to think marketly can help our entrepreneurs on the market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30213	The next debate is on behalf of Croatian High Representatives' Club, representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30214	Dear vice president of HS, respected colleagues and colleagues. Even though no one else in their right mind is watching this, here I am, and I'm staying here and I'm going to say a few words, so maybe we put it on social media, maybe someone will look at it. We're talking about the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. How absurd is the existence of the HGK in general speaking records from the HGK assembly. Otherwise, they are publicly available on HGK sites, everyone can open and read them and I will now try to expose these MPs here to point to the senseless existence of such an institution that only burdens Croatian entrepreneurs and does not contribute to their better business. So here's how these records go. Here's one, i.e. Wednesday since December 2019, I randomly, here, chose 4. By confirming the minutes of the 2nd session of the HGK Assembly held on 17 June 2019. Digital, that is point 1 point 2 of the Digital Chamber of Presentation, the 3rd Amendment to the Supplement of the HGK Financial Plan, the 4th Proposal for a Decision on the financing of the HGK 2020, the 5th Proposal for the Programme of Work of the HGK 2020, the proposal for a Decision on the redistribution and amendment of the Financial Plan, the proposal for a Plan on Amendments and Supplements to the HGK Real Estate Management Plan, the Proposal for a list of arbitration tribunals at HGK in procedures with and without international characteristics. I didn't read it all, so here's the next record. That was May 22nd, excuse me, May 22nd, May 28th. It notes the confirmation of the minutes from the constitutive session of the HGK Assembly, the financial reports, the audit report on the audit of the financial reports carried out and the proposal for a Decision on the selection of an external auditor for the audit of financial reports. And then on 2 July 2020, the confirmation of the minutes of the 3rd session, the report on the operation of the HGK for 2019, the report on balance sheet and revenue and expenditure, the report on the implementation of the HGK Financial Plan, the report on the implementation of the HGK Work Programme, the report of the Supervisory Board, the amendments and additions of the HGK financial plan for 2020, etc. There's only one more thing I'm going to do to harass you with the record. This is the 7th December 2020, confirming the minutes of the 4th electronic session and 5th electronic session, the proposal of the HGK Finance Decision for 2021, the proposal of the HGK Work Programme for 2021, the proposal for a Financial Plan for the HGK, the proposal for a Decision on the conclusion of contracts for the reconstruction of the Roosevelt Market 2 and 3, etc., etc. So these are notes that are dry, boring, and someone gets money for what they're doing and gets it from who? From Croatian entrepreneurs. So Croatian entrepreneurs, while they have to struggle with how to earn their kuna in order to survive on the market, still have to separate some of the money from their kuna in order to pay those involved in this. Which are their own purpose. To which the only business is to bring a financial plan and then rebalance the financial plan and then report on the financial plan and then report on the financial business, meaning from the HGK, on the availability of funds, on buildings, so one big nothing. So I'm not going to talk in gloves here, but I'm going to be very clear. HGK No matter what many employees work there, although some of them work hard, some do not work, it does not make sense, or simply that institution in this way Croatian entrepreneurs must not be financed, or the Croatian state should be abolished. Point. Or if the Croatian state, or the Croatian government, thinks it makes sense, let it find another source of funding, and let it not be Croatian entrepreneurs. Good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30215	Good night. The next debate is the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, the distinguished representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30216	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, the distinguished secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. Here's one bill of law, amendments and additions to the law given by an opposition club, according to usual practice gets the last possible term that you can get, but you can boast that you will have a debate that will go in 2 days. So I'm sure we'll pass midnight and then you'll have a debate and you'll be able to say we had a bill that HS discussed for two days. What do the ruling ones think? As the ruling vote shows us this right-hand side of the assembly, here, there's still one colleague left just enough not to say there's no one left. They will discuss something different on committees and they will say what they think about it, as we had the opportunity to hear on the Committee on Economy where indeed, colleagues from the HDZ when they discussed it, were even stronger than we were from the opposition. They even made their arguments very clear about what, about HGK, but when they will vote, we do not have that dilemma, about how they will vote. This is one of the topics that has been mired through Croatian politics and the public for years and decades, and without any movement, and instead of really getting a little more decent term, it is a deliberately chosen day when there will be a debate on the Strategy, we know that the Strategy is such an important document, that we will discuss it all, but what it is, there is. And when we talk about HGK, when we talk about membership, on the one hand, we always have someone talking about the mandatory membership fee being abolished, and on the other hand, it's the government's refusal to argue that it can't be over the knee, that it needs to be gradually, that the Chamber has public authority and that we have to be careful not to disrupt the sensitive chamber system of the Republic. Open the HGK website a little bit, it says that it promotes, represents and coordinates the common interests of its members in front of state and other bodies in Croatia and abroad, but if you want to turn to export, the Chamber will find partners for you and help you get out on the foreign market. On the domestic market, here, they lobby for legislation in line with the interests of entrepreneurs through 63 associations and 33 HGK communities. It often comes to you to use that saying "don't lobby for me, let me do it alone because you do it better and more expediently and more for your own benefit." When you look at the regional demarcation of the Chamber infrastructure, it is said, you can get legal advice, a series of information, a database, entrepreneurial education, co-financing of performances at fairs, it is referred to sources of funding and advises when applying with European funds. Chamber contacts can be support for local development agencies, development banks and other state institutions. They can also be recommended to the commercial bank or reported acquisitions of business in the country and abroad. And when you read it, what you can only say, so great. Because according to the HGK website, it is an institution that is truly an excellent and broadly beautiful institution for its services to serve Croatian entrepreneurs. For this, Croatian entrepreneurs are also obliged to pay for this excellent service and last year it was a membership fee of 165 million kuna and the government is of course against this proposal because it is one thing to list various parafiscal burdens for citizens and entrepreneurs and to promise to abolish them, and it is quite another to support the idea when a concrete proposal comes to the table. As we had the opportunity to see, HDZ colleagues will support it on boards, even in the debate they will say that, here, they advocate a modern, open, transparent, different HGK, but not in my backyard. It's not a good time. It takes a little wait, so another 20, 30 years would be an absolutely appropriate time. They are also called upon, for example, by Germany, which also has mandatory membership, forgetting that the German chamber is a powerful economic and political factor in the first order. And that both federal and state authorities are obliged to consult throughout a series of issues and when you look at the role and importance of that chamber, it also dresses brighter with German politics and administration. With us politics and administration cheers and dresses with a chamber. All research done primarily in Europe with which we are very happy to compare has shown that the voluntary chamber system is more agile, faster, more skillful, more innovative in its work and representation of the interests of entrepreneurs. This is also logical because, as well as entrepreneurs on the labour market, we are forced to pay membership fees, there is a chamber on the market in the voluntary system and is forced to provide services that someone wants to pay. And at one point, on behalf of the promoter, Mr. Bulj asked the question that he did not understand why HDZ was resisting so much. Well, because he can. So I repeat that sentence, unlike a German chamber that cheers and dresses with German politics and administration, with us politics and administration bright and dress with a chamber. And who's the least important here? Well, entrepreneurs. They pay neatly, multiply the annual membership times the number of entrepreneurs and know exactly what you have. So this is one proposal that is absolutely valuable, not only for our attention, but it's worth one debate in another term, and it's worth thinking about. Nobody cancels the HGK anywhere, we just want to do what Mr. Milosevic said, better, more transparent and more agile. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30217	The essence of the debate on this issue is very simple. Who needs HGK? If this moment for entrepreneurs and businessmen, if the chamber really serves the interests of their business, then first of all, entrepreneurs and businessmen will fight for it to survive, they will be very happy to pay membership fees, and not only that, they will also look for additional ways to finance the activities of the Chamber more generously from their own resources. However, our businessmen, our entrepreneurs, do not speak that way. Those in the Chamber see the stepmother and the enemy and therefore precisely from their ranks come initiatives to make mandatory memberships in, and even only membership in, these chambers, as required to be abolished. So if our entrepreneurs are calling for something to change here, and on the other hand the policy on the right hand of the assembly is strongly rebelling, then we can clearly conclude that the chamber serves them primarily in this orderly and organisational sense. Let us return for a moment to the way the chambers were created, the chambers were created from the Ceva Associations, the pipes themselves sought ways to protect and organise their interfaces, and the model in which the state imposes something, the state in which something forces in Croatia was established when the policy in the chambers saw an opportunity for its profits and for its own benefit, and at the expense of the interests of entrepreneurs and the economy. The abolition of mandatory membership and then mandatory membership fees both in the HGK and in the HCK, but in a whole series of others is part of the Centre's political programme. And now there's no need to repeat all the useful and well that the previous speakers have said, the same arguments we can support ourselves and no doubt that the club of GLAS and the Centre will vote for this proposal. However, there are two additional details that you would like to highlight in particular. So the way to vote on this proposal and on this initiative will give an answer to the question of who is indeed of the political parties credible in their political programmes and values with which voters and voters are represented and advertised in some way, we will actually see through this who are those political parties sitting next to the right-hand side of the assembly, primarily for their own benefit and opportunity, and for this reason they will not vote for those solutions that, by the logic of things, should be part of their political programmes. And in addition, the abolition of mandatory membership in HGK is the first wheel in dispersion and decommissioning one oscillating system in which corruption and clientelism dominates even economic branches in the face of politics. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30218	Next debate of the Club of HNS Representatives and Independent Representatives, the distinguished representative Predrag Štromar. He's gone. Next debate, distinguished representative Darko Klasic on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformists.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30219	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. It's almost midnight, so I'll tell you good morning a little bit more. It is known to all of us that mandatory membership fees and HGK paying for all companies in the Republic of Croatia do not exist in most European countries except those 4 we have heard today and which are listed and with the mandatory burdens for the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce, let us not forget that it is far and already imposed but rather what is in the case of the HGK, and should consider whether this is an important mandatory membership. Income of over 300 million kunas is realised there, and this significantly collects the labour price in the Republic of Croatia and can actually take over the ministries without additional burden on the working population in the Republic of Croatia. Among other things, it further violates the freedom of association and markets of entrepreneurs. Small micro entrepreneurs who today are the largest number in the Republic of Croatia that primarily refers to them, I will remind you today of the payout which is slightly higher than the minimum net salary and regardless of the fact that because of this crisis these small micro-enterprises have no income or the revenues are reduced must pay a huge contribution every month. He will also have to pay these 42 famous HGK kunas even though he has nowhere to get it from and it is taken from him by the Tax Administration, and they have no income, which means that this main parafiscal imposition is worse than tax. All this leads to a minimum of 1,000 euros a month so that the entrepreneur survives with some income and gives what he is forced to give, and currently because of the covid crisis he has no place to go. It is one of the major problems of all small entrepreneurs that each kuna is really important to them, and in practice the HGK provides little or nothing, and the vast majority of entrepreneurs and craftsmen who asked for some help from the HGK had mostly negative experiences. Forced giving of HGK in the most difficult... and small entrepreneurs as I have mentioned and voluntary association and voluntary payment of what is considered to be a good and useful foundation for every liberal democracy. Experience shows that the newly established associations here it is as we have heard that collect signatures for the abolition of HGK in several months more achieve for their members, but also for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia in general than all of these... trompe and expensive structures in the last two to three decades. The economy at this time of crisis should not impose anything, especially such as membership fees in the HGK. HSLS will support any redundancy of the economy and entrepreneurs, and we also advocate the following measures that would introduce additional transparency in the work of chambers, I also consider it a professional chamber, which means the hasty adoption of a horizontal law on chambers, the abolition of mandatory membership and membership and in professional chambers, the possibility of establishing and competing several chambers within one profession, and then they will fight in fact to represent every small citizen and member, because only on the basis of their activities will they receive membership, ban discipline... members because of the verbal delicacy, which is often in professional chambers today in the Republic of Croatia where some have a truly literal monopoly assigned by the state and are placed above and state ministries in that case, in fact, disrupting the reputation and honour of the chamber, and in order to protect themselves as constitutional values. The introduction of mandatory transfer sessions of chambers, boards of directors and other chamber bodies, which is easily available today to ensure the public's right to transparency and information on the work of chambers because the Law on the right to access information is rarely a dead letter on paper when it comes to chambers. The democraticisation and standardisation of the decision-making process of the chamber body and the election of members in those bodies, the introduction of adequate supervision of the laws of the work of chambers, and by an independent regulatory body and sanctioning those responsible for the illegality in the work of chambers. It's very poorly regulated and unfortunately we're witnessing, and here I am in health care that this whole series of chambers often operate at the limit of legality. The harmonisation of several dozen laws today that regulate the operation of chambers with the Chamber Act and parallel to their adoption. I think that, with this basic story about HGK, this should be one of the next initiatives and debates that we, as a Parliament, should bring if we want to enable the competitiveness of the labour market in Croatia and competitiveness at European level... the economy after this crisis, which will strike us tirelessly as the entire European economy. Here's so short from me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30220	The next debate is on behalf of the promoter, respected representative Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30221	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In the middle of the night, we're discussing one of the key things I can say in front of a shamefully empty house. Be aware that he said earlier that HGK is doing a bad job not taking care of the people who are creating in this country and taking care of those who listen, and all under the cover of the income-making obligation of which 70% are membership fees is nothing more than one form of suicide from the economy's stake in the state. I ask the question, what is the fear of anyone in this assembly to support a proposal that is ahead if the intentions of each of us are pure? Such an example assuming that this proposal will not be voted on is more than a clear fact that the purpose of the existence of institutions in the Republic of Croatia is no different than that they are intended for themselves and for those who listen. If the chamber's already working badly, I wonder what are the sanctions for anyone who does bad and does have them at all? Maybe it's the only sanction for those who do poor mandatory membership fees of which they're being financed. Parasitizing on the backs of peoples and people who create something in this country, I think it's quite enough and it's full of hats more or less for everyone. Hypothetically, why would anyone be afraid of not paying voluntary membership if they're doing well? In other words, if anything or anyone serves a purpose, I see no reason not to have members or I don't think those members would pay their membership fees. No voting for the abolition of compulsory membership is anything but one form of speech that gives us knowledge and manifests much more things than those that seem to us to be at first. It seems to me that HGK is in the same or similar state as the good part, I'm not going to tell everyone, but the good part of the system, and that's why a lot of people end up leaving this country, and that's nothing but rot, rot in all the pores. If anyone took the results of the chamber as relevant, as a relevant indication of the eligibility of payment of membership fees, then if the results were those that were relevant very quickly we would also see the relevance of not only membership fees but also the existence of the HGK. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30222	We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Romana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30223	Your Honor. Do you feel that under the conditions of the declared pandemic, additional protection of the economy, especially entrepreneurs, is necessary from unnecessary costs?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30224	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Romano. And beyond the pandemic's conditions, I think that this society and all those people who create in this country are overly burdened by the burdens that, for their own purpose, have what we all know very well here is just the question of how much we're willing to speak out loud and roar, and that's actually taking care of and ensuring a future for those who listen.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30225	The next replica is Boška Ban Vlahek's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30226	Dear colleague. For example, Slovenia is neighbouring us, but even more so, Estonia, which is far ahead of us today in economic development, shows how necessary and radical reforms are, including the abolition of mandatory membership in chambers. Slovenia has abolished mandatory membership fees, and the chamber still has no problems. Annual membership fee shall be paid on the basis of the size of the company and the level of its involvement in the work of the chamber. Could that be with us?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30227	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30228	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues. I'd be humorously tragic in reply, so I don't know if there's any more of us to outreach in any form of speech, whether it's any part of this country's functioning. So I think any excess supplement is essentially nothing but excess.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30229	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30230	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear colleague. Sometimes when we say things out loud, they really sound weird to us. So who does HGK serve? Entrepreneurs. What do the entrepreneurs say? All right, but let's put ourselves in a relationship that I decide whether or not I want to be there, whether you serve me, and of course I will, as in any association, if you're in the birds' group, then you'll pay some compensation. I often have a feeling and I'm going to say it out loud now, that our government has no problem really treating entrepreneurs like they're a little stupid. Why is that?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30231	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30232	Thank you, Chairman. I'd like to agree with my esteemed colleague, Anka, with everything you've said with this in order to add a brief digression that the HGK primarily serves itself, and then to a much smaller part of those for which it exists.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30233	The next replica is the esteemed representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30234	Dear colleague. I'm going to look back on one question that you've actually asked the rulings, it's rhetorical. It says, so who would actually oppose this initiative and this proposal in view of all the arguments that were made during the debate? The answer is simple, those who oppose each proposal, any initiative that Croatia is changing in any way in a positive direction and in a positive direction. And it is just paradoxical that today we talk about mandatory membership in chambers at the same time as we talked about Croatia's development strategy for the next ten years. I just want to point out that it's incorrect that actually the chamber itself would cease to exist because it would lose its function and purpose. The Association of Hosts, Associations of Entrepreneurs, various associations and initiatives have shown that entrepreneurs have lost confidence in such a chamber and have turned to other alternatives in which their membership is voluntarily paid. So the problem is in the chamber that in some way become a regimeal institution. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30235	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30236	Thank you, Vice President HS. So, fellow Dalia, I have nothing to add, I agree with everything you've said.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30237	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30238	Thank you. Dear colleague Kujundzic. You were talking about the decay of the system, namely, I don't know if you know the fact that it was in '99. decided that forced membership in the HGK was, in fact, counter-constitutional and at the time, two constitutional judges who decided on this were on the list of arbitration tribunals at the HGK, and one of them was even the president of the HGK Court of Honor, so the two constitutional judges who decided that forced membership was not anti-constitutional were HGK judges. The question now is, can they even function in other public services? But that shows how rotten that system is. Why do these ruling damages to the HGK because what will Tušek negotiate, what will he offer if there are no such institutions?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30239	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30240	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleague of the Grmoys. Yes, the truth is the HGK serves as well as a large part of all that is in the realm as such, it serves to take care of all those who listen. A whole series of such examples are, if we start from the very county structure of any county, any institution in the area of the county again, so the same thing manifests itself here in this example that you said, and that's more than clear to all of us. What we may have forgotten in this whole story is the fact that, as surely as in any other system, there are people who work, who make their bread every day fair and honest and dedicated work and surely that they are such that we would not talk about this today. So I'm still asking the question, what is someone afraid to support one of these proposals and why is there no sanctions for poor work if the ruling one comes to the post-postopher that the HGK does not work very well? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30241	The next debate is on behalf of SDP's representative, Romana Nikolic, on behalf of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30242	Thank you, Vice President. Amendments to this law are proposed because of the need to further release Croatian entrepreneurs from parafiscal charges. The crisis that hit the Croatian economy due to the virus's coronary epidemic has further highlighted the need for cost-delivery of Croatian entrepreneurs from the burdens for which the proposing does not consider it necessary if entrepreneurs themselves do not want to pay them. The beginning of this economic crisis confirms that compulsory membership in the HGK is not necessary to demonstrate the behaviour of the HGK itself and the emergence of alternative associations that have much better articulated the needs of entrepreneurs than the HGK does. According to the associations themselves, which emerged as a response to a slow reaction by the Government of the Republic of Croatia regarding economic measures, they have far more fulfilled their purpose than the HGK which has clearly become a purpose to themselves. Also mandatory membership is not necessary because there is a great interest of Croatian entrepreneurs in association on the basis of voluntary membership. In just a few months of existence, one association has managed to gather several thousand members who, at this difficult time, voluntarily pay membership fees if they see the purpose. Monopolising the representation of entrepreneurs who, in fact, by the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, do not make sense and should be given to Croatian entrepreneurs the opportunity to decide who and whether they want to represent them in the first place and to pay or not to pay membership fees. The Croatian Chamber of Commerce charges about 300 million kuna annually and we believe that entrepreneurs have the right to decide what they will do with this money. Whether to save it for their business or invest in association. Such a bill is a great support for Croatian entrepreneurs and a long-standing practice of HGK which shows that their work has no excessive benefit for the business of our entrepreneurs. Unfortunately, the HGK has become more of a political organisation than is supporting the Croatian economy. Insufficient transparency of work, criminal activities within the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and political integration have also contributed to that status of the institution in the public. We believe that such a way of working and financing the chamber must come to an end and this bill is the first step towards that goal. With the support of entrepreneurs and the public, we are also seeking the support of the Croatian Parliament for the adoption of these extremely important laws on the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30243	The next debate is on behalf of the club, and on behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy. He's gone. The next debate on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Vesna Vucilović.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30244	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, this little colleague and colleague who remains still in the assembly, another debate on the proposal of opposition MPs in this, in these late petty ones we have already gotten used to it and essentially nothing to say about this proposal that is before us except that the Homeland Movement fully supports it. Since the start of its work, the Homeland Movement has indicated that our country is too expensive and that entrepreneurs are overly burdened by numerous intrusions. And regardless of several rounds of tax reform that are as horizontal or as my colleague Zekanovic would say horizontal measures, we have been partially relieved by our entrepreneurs, but there remains a number of parafiscal burdens and with numerous administrative requirements that complicate business, in Croatia parafiscal burdens are at large and financial amounts among the larger problems that entrepreneurs face and are not insignificant amounts, it is billions that reduce the ability of entrepreneurs to invest in new investments, research and development but also the salaries of employees. We are also talking about this membership fee to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce tonight and this imposition is controversial for several reasons, and the first and the foundations that have already been highlighted by colleagues is this principle of volunteering that does not exist in this impose. In principle, it results in the following reason which is related to the character of this obligation, which is perceived as a South-Communist relic from some past times because of this mandatory nature. We all know that in the former Yugoslavia memberships in some organizations were mandatory, so at a certain age you became a pioneer by your own free will, and in the same way you became part of the socialist youth, although you never signed an accession card. By entering a working relationship, you became a member of the union, and companies or working organizations as it was then called, were members of the Chamber of Commerce. This practice in independent Croatia has been maintained until today and it is no wonder that many entrepreneurs view this mandatory membership as something that should have been abolished so far. We should not ignore the level of membership, although we have heard that it is symbolic, but entrepreneurs at the height of that membership fee cannot influence and of course it is also frustrating. Furthermore, entrepreneurs point out that certain services that the chamber has never consumed and do not really need. When all of this is seen, all of the reasons for the frustration of our entrepreneurs is obvious and completely understandable. The reason is also the fact that membership in some, in a chamber in some other transition states that are already mentioned here are on a voluntary basis. I personally believe that the chamber would in principle not be at a loss in the long term if membership were on a voluntary basis. Namely, the members of the chamber have benefits based on which they would also retain a large number of members, which confirms that over 200 crafts, OPGs, cooperatives and associations have decided to join the HGK voluntarily because most have recognized the action Let's buy Croatia as an important channel for promotion and placement of their products. Like my colleague Milosevic and I have worked for a long time, for over 20 years in the economy and I have personally been able to use HGK services during my working life in the economy, experience has always been very positive. We often went to new markets together with the chamber because it reduced our costs and ensured a quality marketing performance on the market where you at the initial stage don't know how much potential it actually has. In addition, chambers also run a number of analyses that are useful to economies and education that are free for members or are at more favourable prices than market prices. And for the sake of all this, I am of the opinion that the abolition of mandatory membership in the long term would really not change anything in the chamber and that a certain number of entrepreneurs would continue to decide on membership in the chamber. In this way, the reasons I have already stated and leading to frustration among the members who are there by law. On the other hand, the chamber would be forced and somehow, it would have been forced to do far more rational business than it is doing now and unlike fellow Milosevic, who would have thought that the chamber would simply have to go into reorganise but would have given them two more years, I don't think so, I think that the chamber after 30 years of not doing some things was mature for shock therapy and if our many entrepreneurs were due to this Covid crisis and everything that had hit them were forced into shock therapy and to operate in extremely difficult conditions, and all the analyses show that this situation was the most difficult and most difficult for the small entrepreneurs that we have heard today and from the minister when she spoke about the strategy that they were just small, medium entrepreneurs, micro entrepreneurs, it's the spine of our economy, but we break that situation all the time with these numerous intrusions, administrative, various patterns and I won't last time. It's through these kind of initiatives that would make some kind of space where entrepreneurs could still invest more in development, research, new investments, new jobs. Therefore, the Homeland Movement supports and we will support this proposal and I must stress that today, in our opinion, there are far greater problems facing our entrepreneurs and not only them but also the economy as a whole. We are pleased that this topic came for discussion at the Croatian Parliament in this night's time, but we are used to it. And it would be nice to finally achieve some economic topic of consensus and unity, not only about the restoration of earthquakes and similar things, because we are expected not only by entrepreneurs but also by the inhabitants of our country. In a situation where we are fighting an epidemic, when our homeland has been hit by two devastating earthquakes, we need to do absolutely everything in our power to make business easier for our entrepreneurs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30245	The next debate on behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Plasimir Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30246	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs and respected citizens of the Republic who in these small hours are now half one follow through the screen. I would also like to touch on certain arguments that I believe are very important, which have been mentioned by the ruling ones, which is the year of the establishment of an economic chamber in the Republic of Croatia, which is often referred to as the argument of those 150 years for leaving this mandatory membership fee which companies, i.e. entrepreneurs, must pay to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. Here we have taken some examples of economic chambers in Europe that are on a voluntary basis, so they have this principle of volunteering, and on the other hand, on the other hand, they have the same long years since they exist. One of the oldest, one of the oldest chambers in the world and most famous in the market, is the British Chamber of Commerce, which has existed since 1860. So there is a voluntary membership there, it is not mandatory, and on the other hand there is a very long number of years as well as Croatia. In Estonia, they already exist for 100 years, have voluntary membership and manage 3,000 entities. The Slovenian Chamber of Commerce and Industry has existed since 1860, so 160 years. The Czech Republic, which numbers 15,000 subjects, has existed 170 years since 1850. Hungary, which numbers several tens of thousands of subjects, is 170 years old, and was founded in 1850 by Emperor Francis Joseph, who was also King of Hungary. As for Poland itself, which also has voluntary membership fees, it has also gone through socialism and today it is located in capitalist countries and has voluntary membership fees, are market-thinking and have raised the economy in the last 20 years very full. So, first, some kind of trade council was erected by the Polish Duke in 1809, and in 1859, about the years when the chambers were founded in these countries, so after Prussia's collapse, Glivica was founded, which is preceding today's Polish Chamber of Commerce. In this sense, here are examples of chambers in Europe that some or most of them have passed through socialism, and on the other hand they have voluntary membership and voluntary membership. They are decorated by the efficiency, transparency, efficiency and volunteering that is lacking in our economic chamber. On the other hand, I heard one of the arguments of the ruling debates that we had, that the Croatian Chamber of Commerce has or manages some 150,000 entities. Now I went to take a look at how similar, voluntary, or forced to charge on that side, so Austria and Germany are similar to Croatia, but here we went to see one Austria has 540,000 members it manages, while one Germany has over 3 million members it manages. However, there is a large distinction here and there is a difference with which it can be compared, i.e. it cannot compare Croatia, so Germany and Austria have much larger exports per chamber employee, Austria has, therefore, 200 million dollars in exports per employee, and Germany has 700 million. We've seen it in Croatia, it has $30 million in exports. And on the other hand, what turns out to be a trend, so if there's a forced membership, then there's a large number of members inside the chamber and that makes sense. So in these countries where I mentioned earlier, so Estonia, Slovenia, the Czech Republic, Hungary and Poland, they have reduced the number of members within the chamber for reasons that members, or entities within the chamber, are not forced to be within the chamber itself and do not have to pay it unless they want to. On the other hand, where membership is forced, such as Croatia, Austria and Germany, therefore there are a large number of members, however, we have seen that, by efficiency, Croatia cannot measure with those countries that have this German model. And in terms of Croatia, therefore, there are, there is only the will of the ruling and mandatory law for which No more arguments. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30247	You have one replica. Dear Representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30248	Dear Representative Troscott. First of all, I want to commend you for a really good thorough preparation, but the arguments for this proposal that we support should not be sought in the past, so we will not convince anyone of anything, I just want to complement you and say that we could actually link the arguments to what we were talking about today's National Development Strategy. We've all found that the goals that we're trying to achieve are in no way related to the measures and possibly the way to reach a certain goal, and when we talk about discharging the economy, here, the Chamber is collecting 300 million kuna. The Development Strategy does not speak of how it will help entrepreneurs to invest more in innovation, in research, in development, in digital green transition, all of which, in the words that the Strategy abounds, so here, removing this unnecessary burden would be a good way, a good measure, a good step in that direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30249	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30250	Dear Representative Oreskovic, I agree with you, what I heard, which is an argument for me that just doesn't stand and doesn't make sense, that mandatory membership fees cannot be abolished in Croatia because we already exist for 150 years. I agree that this is the same absurd argument to me, but here we went to explore other chambers that are already market-oriented today, are already digitised and have already turned around, so the market, and yet, on the other hand, its establishment is, dates back to about the same age as Croatia. Regarding this National Strategy that you said, therefore all wisdom comes down to the following, so the corruption you've been dealing with for many years, the nepotism that we see here and here in the Chamber, unfortunately drove our people out of Croatia, which then pays out of the emigrants, and this is exactly the amount of economic growth at the annual level. And we want to prevent that from making any contribution to the HGK.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30251	The next debate on behalf of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, the distinguished representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30252	I thank my dear colleagues and colleagues and everyone who has remained here with the patience to listen to the arguments for and against this law, so congratulations on having stayed. First of all, I'd say one thing, I'd really like to, I think it's important that this debate is balanced and that as an argument, there may not be some things that are not fully available, which is that the HGK is not doing anything or that it doesn't have any function at all. That's not exactly true. I, even when I worked as an entrepreneur and craftsman, cannot say that I have had particularly positive experiences, as some here pointed out, but yet for certain entities there are certain services, and even public powers which the HGK performs and should be highlighted. And it should be pointed out that it has been lately, here, I will really say, a certain step in the services that the HGK offers, I will highlight this particularly digital Chamber as one possible first step and a good model in which the Chamber should go, and in particular I think it has an important role in opening the data, i.e. to become some open database for the economy. So it's not all so black in HGK, but it's also not an argument for nor against mandatory contributions issues. We didn't know two things here either. We did not distinguish the issue of mandatory membership and the question of mandatory contribution to membership. So it seems to me that when we compare Croatia's HGK with other chambers, we also get a little bit into the space of the unknown, i.e. that things are not so clearly comparable because our HGK is a hybrid between something that should be done or what the public authority is, on the one hand, and on the other hand, the association of private entities. So it has both functions. This first function I have mentioned, the bodies of the public authority or someone acting as a public authority, is being strengthened by the HGK in the last few years when it has been transferred between 13 and 15, I do not know now what is the last number of public powers it directly gives to entrepreneurs. So now, what's the case? So the state actually converts the HGK into a mini ministry of crafts and entrepreneurship, which it provides, has the task of exercising certain public powers, that in itself is not a bad thing, but in my view, it is an argument that entrepreneurs are not those who, by virtue of the law, have to pay a mandatory contribution. Rather, if the HGK performs what is the positive obligation of the state of the Republic of Croatia, which is to promote the economy and strengthen the economy, then it is also the obligation of the State to finance that part of its functions from the public budget. On the other hand, there was a false dilemma on my part. Whether the HGK needs to operate on the market or whether it needs to be financed by entrepreneurs. But I see that the HGK can have those two wings. One where it works on the principle of the agency, so someone who gives, provides, has public authority and provides a certain policy framework for the development of the economy in Croatia and that is part of me that should be financed from the public budget. And others where they will provide and develop direct service services, so direct service to entrepreneurs who can then charge through voluntary membership fee or charge as a service depending on which type. So we must not immediately reject certain functions but perhaps think creatively about how we actually see the purpose and functioning of HGK in Croatia because it is actually a crucial issue. What is the role of the HGK in the 21st century today and in terms of where it performs its agency activity and in terms of direct public service? I will draw attention to the decision of the Constitutional Court of 2009 which I do not really agree with, but it may be important here to highlight some of the arguments raised by that Constitutional Court decision and actually kill them because most of them will probably call on it. Thus, the Constitutional Court then actually adopted a solution that rejects the proposal for an assessment of the constitutionality of the Law on the Croatian Chamber of Commerce where it explained first that the provision of the Constitution guaranteeing the freedom of association does not apply to economic operators but only to citizens. That's the first thing I have to say very profoundly. Why wouldn't freedom of association apply to legal persons? So it applies to both natural and legal persons. I, as a legal person, was an economic entity or some kind of another, another kind of legal person, have the right and set up associations and be a member of the association. So if it were to be worth it so that this negative obligation is passed on to a positive commitment, I think it would really be inadmissible. Therefore, this would specifically mean that legal persons cannot be freely joined. I don't agree with that first. Another argument they used is that the issue of entrepreneurial freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution cannot function without and must be seen in the context of other freedoms and obligations, which is a particularly positive commitment by the state that says the state promotes the economic progress and social well-being of citizens and is concerned about the economic development of all. Okay, so what's the Constitutional Court doing here? The Constitutional Court then says it is not fair for someone to benefit from an association of HGKs that he is not a member. This would specifically mean that if this principle were applied to me at all, it would mean that every worker in Croatia must be a member of the union because it uses the benefits the union negotiates as a social partner with the government and then it would not be fair to use the benefits that the union has chosen for him. So these can't be arguments and I just want to point out here that if it's going to point out the argument that we really have to cancel it out. However, whatever the decision of the Constitutional Court on the legislator is to regulate and I think that in this respect, moving the coercion is a necessary contribution to this good initiative. However, that we must not be fooled as often as we give in to the fact that an institution is badly functioning because it is co-opted really and trapped by political elites and serves to take care of party personnel that are worth everything to the HGK, but it must not lead us to the path of destruction of that institution but must still look creatively because we are not the majority, creative models to save that institution but at the same time make it better and more effective for those to be provided with the service. Because the solution that is very often heard here tonight, which is that the functioning of HGK on the market will make the HGK a better institution not true. I simply don't believe it, and I don't believe it because we've had a chance to see it, and that's what Mr. Bulj here today pointed out how private companies that used to be public, how they operate today, do they provide better services to users, do telecoms provide better services and cheaper services to users than if they were publicly owned? So when we do these steps, we have to be balanced into what's the point. The purpose is to preserve the institution, but to put it for the right purpose, to give the right purpose and function and to finance that is in line with that function. And I think it's in most of the public funding and then voluntarily in the part where it will provide direct services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30253	On behalf of the promoter, Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30254	Thank you very much. Here we see that one hour after half-night, I see here there's a representative up in the corner of the majority. I would just say here that I do not have clear motives for HDZ and coalition partners that are why they do not want to accept this proposal. I told them my position, personally it would tribal to lift that chamber, but here remains the possibility of voluntary, voluntary and it will be very few who will participate and pay that membership fee of 500 and some membership fees that they pay, parafiscal duties. Here is the key issue of resistance to the HDZ system and the ruling and it is recognised by Domagoj Milosevic here and he himself said he knocked on the door to HGK in 2000. Somewhere around here, if his door had opened, he'd solved his problems, he'd gone into HDZ, he'd become a minister, and he'd still be an entrepreneur. That's how it works for you and it's a message that was honest with your heart, whether it was in enthusiasm I don't know I'm sorry it's not here I'd like to discuss it with him and debate it, but the fact is that the people who run the HGK have created their own empire, and I'm even more concerned about the silence of the government's representative who hasn't said a single word until now except what he wrote probably in his opinion something, but as a representative of the government, which is why you don't go out. So this is a fight against those who are destroying jobs, which give their feet to entrepreneurs. Instead of completely changing the paradigm, I urge you once again to release all the duties, the taxes of the economics. Here in my Dalmatian Zagora that freeing it from entrepreneurs of all intents might have come, perhaps it wouldn't have evicted these people and what's left because soon we won't have any people in this area at all, we'll have an empty state of what's most important right now with all this, an insecure judiciary, with problems that we have about 500 and some parafiscal burdens is the most important workplace, the workplace. Two-thirds of Croatia is empty in this crisis in this year has exposed all the evil, all the misery and making these policies and these HGKs and other chambers and all those who suck money at the expense of entrepreneurs at the expense of competition, but in fact, all of them here are clearly all respected representatives of the Croatian government, here it is clear that this works on the principle of Tušek and its negotiating abilities and therefore you need HGK to be able to strengthen it. More of a promise. Here, for example. ...was with my colleague tonight and Kerum, if it hadn't been for Ben to be down the coalition, then here's to confirm a colleague named Sanader. Ben coalition, you give a concession to a citizen's party and you have a coalition and a problem solved. What's the problem... Kerum, nothing. That's how the tribune of these institutions eat. Is a colleague of Tušek's very good show of how it is done and indeed he could be the future president of HGK with negotiating abilities, but like entrepreneurs who run my county, who didn't pay the workers, who destroyed everything from humanitarian aid they got rich in the war and now they're looking for the maritime good for the coalition, it's your system, it's your system. And that's why I don't find it strange that a fellow under a mask can't recognize you far up in the corner you're the only one from the majority, it's no wonder you won't support this proposal, it's not weird. That's what I expected. It no longer matters the legitimacy of the people, it is important to move this little Croat to send out clues and that you have good tits and that you have something to breastfeed from. Peanuts.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30255	We have a single replica of Honorary Representative Plasimir Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30256	Your Honor, Mr. Bull. I'd just take the opportunity to expand the debate. It's a ben. I would not agree not to improve the business of the HGK market, and the argument is that it has already begun to raise initiatives and associations from the private sector, e.g. if I understand correctly and say the Voice of Entrepreneurs now numbers a very large number of members of entrepreneurs who have just risen because they were not satisfied with the business of HGK. Now that the HGK, let's say, is on the market with this law. Well, here's Mr. Bulj... /The speakers speak at the same time. /... the same argument was so that Mr. Bulj will only continue in the sense that if the competition itself were to go to the market by such initiatives, it's not that I'm now doing some kind of marketing and initiative, but on the other hand, [[/Intruder: It is a replica of Bulju or Mrs. A ben?]] exiting to the market would certainly improve the business of the HGK. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Well, here's Mr. Bull if you can do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30257	Well, look, here in Croatia, a colleague of Sanader has been heartily supporting the Istanbul Convention, so you could say Mrs. Bulj would not be angry, so we're acceptable here, we accept it. It's like you said. I will repeat again to you, HGK and 540 fiscal commitments destroy Croatian entrepreneurs, the Croatian economy. Two-thirds of Croatia are empty just because it has too many, a little tits get how much they suck, that triba I don't think I can even figure out how much a tribal would have a boob to suck and their appetites, here's what I can't figure out. And I agree with you whether you're basically one of the most competent here, you're an expert on these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30258	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Anka Mrak Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30259	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues. What the ruling thinks in this proposal is absolutely clear to you. This side of the assembly is empty, Mr. Cappelli is the only one assigned to be here on duty. I'm going to argue a little differently now, so on Fridays when we vote then there are a number of legal proposals that we read as technical, it's unanimous, sometimes two, three MPs are abstentioned, but there are a lot of legislative proposals that we've assessed to be technical, that they're okay, that they're on time. Imagine surprises when the opposition makes a simple, clear legislative proposal that ruling say look, it's not bad, let's see what can be done and let's vote for it together, it will be a surprise and it will be one shift in the way this Parliament works and in the way it decides. When we were discussing HGK, I'm technically discussing and discussing it in some kind of picture, and I'm experiencing both legal proposals and everything else. Let's see what's in the denominator all the same, the whole debate was that HGK was in the way it's now complicated. The debate of both the ruling and the opposition was that we had to change something, the debate and the ruling and the opposition was that we wanted a new, open, transparent, different chamber that would really serve those who expected it. If it's the same thing in the denominator for all of us why we can't get to the situation that we say okay, we have that proposal to see what it's like to vote on, but of course I'm in these late-night or early-morning hours a little naive, but I guess I'll be like that as long as it's gonna be. HGK is a professional association of economics, it represents them, it coordinates and protects their common interests and what those HGKs are saying, my people don't represent me like that anymore, don't put me in a position that I have to be there because I don't want to be there, I want something else, I want something new. So we have absolutely nothing against it, tradition is of 16. They're going to be in 1852, but things are changing. So we can't take a step further if we're in a spot towards HGK we act as if everything that's there is carved into stone doesn't have to change anything. Let's change things. Let's take a step forward. What did our businessmen say? They went into other forms of association because the ones we make them feel the law that they must not be satisfied with their interests and they told the government, they told us all to do what you want, and we'll go where we feel good, where we can do something, where some things can change, where someone doesn't decide what we need. I deliberately asked Mr. Troscott when he had an opening explanation of the proposal for real estate, and suddenly the HGK has a special association that deals with real estate, but not with real estate that the HGK will buy, real estate that nobody will ever be in, even in cities and some distant countries where we have embassies that are in rent, and the premises of the HGK Zjapa are empty. I'm sure no one will. And I'll go back to this intro. If you have all the same things in the denominator, if you want to open, transparent, different, if we want to change, if we want to make a step, so why don't we take that step and say, people my opposition has given one bill, that bill is worth discussing, he's in first reading, we put it in second reading, and between first and second reading we see what it is and imagine the step that would be in terms of democracy in this country, and the rulings have said the opposition here you did something right, we did it together, and it's one proposal that's acceptable to us. But that's what's gonna happen in another life, someone's gonna wake up from a dream, and maybe that's how it's gonna be, and we're not gonna see it in this life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30260	The first replica of the esteemed representative, Zvonimir Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30261	Your Honor, Ms. President. Dark Taritash. I noticed during the exposure that you asked a question about real estate, so I'm quite interested in it since you have a lot of experience in how to optimise it, for example, all of those properties that you've listed, so is it necessary to buy them all, could we maybe rent them, and in such a way maybe additional revenues come about? And let's say I asked you to comment on this MECCI that's so-called. This Mediterranean and Educational Innovation Centre, which is an unusable ruins, is the former Motel Pandora in Preluca near Rijeka, which stands still today. Well, I'll ask your opinion on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30262	Thank you very much. Maybe I should go. I'm sorry. From the end, you didn't accidentally say this object that is failing, which is located in Preluca which was at one point a really great expression of our architecture and is located in an excellent place, but it is precisely in the context of one of the presidents of the HGK and the way it was determined and the way it should not be. [[Sandader: Here you go.]] The role of HGK was not to deal with real estate business, to buy and then use it in different ways, but what it is. What would be convenient to know, and that conveniently and that today's debate on this law when we had a strategy for development of the Republic of Croatia... detected many millions of square meters of land, apartments, business spaces that the Republic of Croatia owned and which did not put into operation. The role of HGK is not to deal with real estate, not to buy real estate, the role of HGK is completely different.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30263	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Gary Cappelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30264	Good morning. Well, you just said that I was tasked with being here, believe me, because I wasn't interested in this debate when I was a minister, I worked very hard with HGK, and of course I saw both positive and negative things. So, I don't think it's too far in the sense that HKG is, the mandatory membership of the transitional period, let's say, two years, like we did with a system of tourist communities where there were a lot of debates, we did a transitional period in the meantime of about 30 and we shut down and limit personal incomes as we restricted in the tourism community system not 60, 70%, but to possibly 20-30%, and the rest on the market. So there are various models just not shock therapy right up to that level to close it tomorrow. Introduce membership fees so they can no longer be paid.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30265	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30266	Thank you very much. You know the siren's call is what you can't resist. If you're alone on this side of the assembly and if you're the only one left of the ruling, then you can't help but wonder why that is. It would be expected that any of your colleagues and colleagues were interested in this topic, it was expected that they might be involved in the debate, although I can see that there was someone else in the debate, so maybe it really came from the club, that was as expected as I was in this individual debate the whole time. So you're also on the Committee on the Economy of your colleagues and you're now saying that you're not happy with what we have, you said that we should change, so why don't we do something? Just because the proposal came from the opposition. Well, that can't be the reason. So let's go to the second reading, between the first and second readings, let's see, no one here goes with an axe and a cut. HGK remains still, but let's let her work under some other conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30267	The next replica is the esteemed representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30268	Dear colleagues. Here I'd like to ask you to refer further to the question that Mr. Cappelli referred you to regarding the shock therapy. A question of shock therapy is being asked to whom? Shock therapy to the economics? So don't you think that they are the ones who are affected by the crisis and all the negative consequences of the crown to the lack of structural reforms that Croatia has persistently refused to implement, or you think that the shock therapy should rightly protect the HGK as a structure that clearly benefits from its non-transparent spending of funds primarily the political elites that engulf its worn-out personnel, this is what this is all about. From what we've learned today through the debate, we can see that the HGK accumulated a large amount of financial resources that it spent among other things in the real estate business. How to prevent that if not precisely this reform in the direction of abolishing mandatory membership, but I would dare to claim that we should move on and go to abolishing mandatory membership.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30269	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30270	Thank you very much. My colleague Oreshkovic. So, I don't know how long it's going to take for HGK to go gently, so how many steps do we have to do it together? The fact is two things, one thing that there's less employees than there were and that they've done something that's a fact but not enough. The other thing, nobody really said since tomorrow HGK doesn't have, we said HGK yes, but really interesting, even if you say we go to two stages, all five, but you can't say everything has to stay the same because it's tradition, and tradition is one thing, and reality is something else. And if we're all saying we're all unhappy with this kind of HGK, so if everyone's unhappy, but that we're dissatisfied, but they're dissatisfied with what it exists for, they're dissatisfied entrepreneurs. Ask them and do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30271	Next individual debate, the distinguished representative of Domagoj Price.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30272	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. I'm sorry here one hour in the morning, I'm sorry that the ruling timed this time to discuss such an important subject as the abolition of mandatory membership fee for HGK. Yes, mandatory membership for HGK should be abolished in order to relieve the economy and reduce the presses on companies, but to relieve business operators of another charge on which payment is spent except for money and its time. The Croatian economy is burdened with hundreds of parafiscal duties and state interference, and the HGK is another institution that everyone pays but only some of them benefit. Therefore, voluntary membership should be allowed, who wants to pay it, who thinks it benefits from the HGK can pay it. The Chamber of Commerce itself has assets of over 300 million kunas that can be partly financed. Therefore, if it behaves as a good economic operator to put that property into operation, income from it can be the basis from which the Chamber of Commerce will be financed in the future. Mandatory membership as it is now only irritates people and is part of the reason why the poor climate in the economy rules. In case we abolish mandatory membership, the climate in the Croatian economy may be somewhat better. The abolition of the HGK membership fee will make it competitive and in case it is, business entities will be happy to pay membership fees. It's time for GK to depend on the market. What is a particular problem is that HGK has often been members of one party, the ruling HDZ party. In Croatia, politics has a major impact on all segments of society, which is how we see the GK, unfortunately. Since the HGK has not done a good job all these years, some other organisations have emerged. Organisations of employers and entrepreneurs. For example, when a list of imposes was to be collected in Croatia, it was not the HGK who did it but the Employers' Association. I also think this is a test, a test for those political parties who say to themselves that they are pro-market, that they are liberal on economic issues. I hope that they will show by voting and supporting the abolition, supporting the abolition of the mandatory membership fee that they will show that they are indeed pro-market parties. Removing mandatory membership fees for GK would remove one of the parafiscal burdens burdening the economy. There are a few hundred left, but this is a good start.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30273	We have a replica of Boška Ban Vlahek's distinguished representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30274	... Proverbs, do you think liberal parties should support the abolition of mandatory membership fees in the HGK? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30275	I agree, if they really are liberal parties. Some parties in Croatia present themselves, want to gain popularity, that way this is today, this is now a test for them. We'll see if he supports the abolition of this parafiscal intrusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30276	Next individual debate, the distinguished representative of Nikl Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30277	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, one hour after midnight, discussing an important topic. After all, the debate on this topic was sought by Croatian entrepreneurs and craftsmen. I'm proud, here it is, that fellow Troscott and Club Mosta have referred this legislative proposal where we're asking for the suspension of mandatory membership fee for HGK. The law for the Croatian Chamber of crafts has been written, it is on the agenda, we agreed with the opposition to give us signatures for this month to come to the debate and look, we have as an opposition to the Institute that we should send two legislative proposals monthly or put them to debate and vote in HS and see when this priority, which we, as an opposition, have fought for, when it comes to debate, at 10 o'clock or after 10 o'clock in the evening, and now is 1 behind midnight when we discuss it. Here I see some portals still following this debate, which shows that there is an interest in the public, but obviously there is an interest of the ruling that is not discussed at one normal time how entrepreneurs, craftsmen, all people affected by this imposition, by force, would not see the position of the ruling. As far as I could see, HSLS colleagues have announced their support for this bill. I would like to know what HNS's position as liberal Democrats under this law is, if we can get the whole opposition out, which is so little questionable, but here, colleague Troscott, since you are the initiator of this initiative, make an effort in these days that are ahead of us by Friday, to inform all MPs, to come on Friday, and I call on Croatian entrepreneurs and craftsmen to follow the outcome of that vote on Friday. I'm here now, I came from the Open, there was a topic of political corruption, political trade, and I think that Croatian citizens who have watched that show can be sad, disappointed, actually, messages have been sent that those who have recorded certain conversations, that they are the problem, that they are some kind of spies, that they are some kind of comforters who are recording conversations. That this is something that is immoral, and it is not immoral to offer, I don't know, the position of director, I don't know, park or director of PP Medvednica, it is not immoral to promise that wages means jumbo or jumbo crying or crying for a political match and that shows how much corruption has metastasized in HDZ and in general in Croatian society, we have the highest positions in the state of defence and political trade and by President Milanovic and by the meaning of the Prime Minister, the president of HS, and why is that? So because they know that they themselves have conducted political negotiations, they know for themselves that if they were to lose that prey, that the question of whether they would be in power, and HGK is certainly part of that prey they share, means from the election cycle to the election cycle. He told his colleague Troscott that it was not excluded that some of the actors in these affairs would end up in one of these institutions and that is what the problem is. HGK protects the interest of politics, protects the interest of the ruling party, not protects the interest of Croatian entrepreneurs. I told the prime minister today it's time to turn to the market economy, get away from this partner capitalism, and that in that market economy, we have as few countries as possible, as any private initiative. What is, of course, strategically important and strategically important about this state should be managed, we have seen it in this crisis how important it is, but the way we think about things on a global scale, this one, but I won't succeed, but it's interesting thinking if it's a replica, it's gone, but later. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30278	The next individual debate, the distinguished representative Grozdana Peric, is gone. On behalf of Proposer Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30279	Dear Prime Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues, we see that here, from most of us, there is a brave man from Rimic, near Imotski, heroically holding a steady view now and his exposure, we all expect that in accordance with Andrija Simic, who defended us in those times of some sort, otherwise my idol model, such are people who are rebellious, that he will now support it, that he has made a decision because he has stayed here alone, that the former minister and now our colleague Pavic will support it because I don't see any reason to reject this. And just now, he said from this pay phone that if we shut them down, we'd be crying for those institutions. Well, I've got a handkerchief I haven't brought here. There's this thing that's being cleaned up, you're not going to poster for, you're not going to poster for Nadano Vidosevic. But, well, mostly, I don't understand the resistance and I don't understand the government's silence which is why it doesn't open up the debate, and it has the right to do so by the Rules of Procedure and with these arguments as a representative of the Government tell me whether or not it will change its mind, whether there is still any evidence that Croatian economic and new arguments are being left behind because 500 parafiscal burdens are too much. People us, these entrepreneurs they organize business they pay us I think. I don't even know where the cheek is this way to talk to such parafiscal accusations and the minister says we're going to poster. I call on all my colleagues and colleagues to come on Friday and yes, the vote is on Friday, and that this law, the bill of law, should be passed. I think that's the most understandable thing for these entrepreneurs right now. I repeat once again if after all that is happening in the judiciary, what happens to corruption, if we do not help entrepreneurs stay in Croatia and develop to open a new working ministry then simply Croatia has no future. Here's what I say. I often defend workers, workers' rights, I go to these people, there are people as damaged as Danko Končar in Brodotrogir doing what he thinks, doesn't pay the workers, there are those entrepreneurs, so we can't forget those people. Shipbuilding has been destroyed, everything has been destroyed. But these people who want to work, let's take off their obligation to pay such parafiscal burdens. And that's what we would have to think deeply about, not say as counterpart Milosevic of HDZ said I was an entrepreneur in 2000 back to the Chamber of Commerce and he solved the problem. If that's too bad.../incomprehensible.....that's why you're a monopoliest behind it, you've got a firm where you're a monopoliest and that's it. You can't win for gas without a seal, so now you, now get in this chamber. Also one question, very important, privileged information they had in the economic chamber during privatisation. What they did was the Croatian Chamber of Commerce worked for someone who knows whose interests. What was that chamber doing? What results are visible now? Preserved by INU, telecommunications, were quickly agreed by Mudrinic and the one who has released these hunting grounds Vidosevic, as they betrayed national interests and still paid them, says the triba pay them. Well, you're talking to the esteemed Pavić, and here you have five minutes, and I believe you'll further strengthen your arguments as to why the poster over the Croatian Chamber of Commerce over the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, why the people have to shed their tears.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30280	Here's the replica, the esteemed representative of the bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30281	Thank you. Dear fellow Bully, now that things are here, I've been doing a little math here with my colleagues if all MPs come along with HSLS, so the minorities allegedly don't support it, the Workers' Front doesn't support it, it's gonna be very tight, it could pass the law. So here I call, please, we have no quorum So, Mr. Pavic, you'll certainly be the first to appear, so when your boss orders you to come to the vote, I don't doubt you at all. [[Intruder: We are counting on you, MP Pavić.]] So here's a chance, and we must all engage now that the final opposition comes to a full vote Friday.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30282	Well, I would invite everyone to come and mean that we are as an opposition more serious and unique on the issue, especially when it comes to voting because the most appropriate majority is this inconclusive and I think it can be done, the agreements, and those who will not vote will have their reasons, of course the IDS is much more important to this tourist community they have.../incomprehensible/... they will solve it, and we expect our knight from Ricic to decide that our bold former minister is our fellow representative and that he is the decisive hand to say bravely as so far in the decisive moments of Prime Minister Plenkovic I will not vote here I will vote this way and I have done it, I voted as the majority against the budget, because they have not given certain support to undeveloped areas in the Chetino region, in Dalmatia I voted against the budget. And I expect from you, you're from stone, you're born heroes. sang. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30283	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30284	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, State Secretary, colleague Bulj, you made me laugh very well, Knight of Ricic, thank you for that epithet, so here I was a knight from Ricic, and personally while I was minister, I abolished two parafiscal duties concerning the regional one, so if someone to lift parafiscal duties, it's government, if someone is a pro-entrepreneurship government, it's this government. To me even, the unions know they don't like me, I've been accused of being on the side of entrepreneurs, this government has given support to entrepreneurs, tax reform has been disbursed, we've lifted parafiscal burdens, so if someone is for entrepreneurs, it's us. Is there a need for reform of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce? Yes, it is. Is more transparency needed? Yes, it is. Do you need a transformation? Yes, it is. Is it necessary to dedicate the chamber to entrepreneurs? Yes, it is. And this isn't about 42 kunas here it's about the belongings of the chamber, this is about whether entrepreneurs see the benefits of membership in the economic chamber. When we look at the systems what I said in the opening part of Austria, France, Germany has an economic chamber. Just for the sake of experience working with the Austrian Chamber of Commerce, I think this system should be given a chance to transform, to give it a chance. If that doesn't work, I'll support initiatives like this, but something like that, and that's why I said that the poster, something that's been created in this one law for 168 years, and basically you said yourself, Mr. Bull, that you're the one who's basically going in that direction. When we look at the latest social events and scientists.../incomprehensible/... Mr. Scharmer pointed out three components. The truth or question of misinformation, the question that we no longer have the unequivocal truth, that we no longer believe science, that we don't believe climate change. The post-democracy where democratic institutions are trying to be destroyed is trying to transform and break up the systems and post-humanity that we see both in terms of and depression, fears in society, divisions in society. We see what happened to America, we see in many countries. I don't want that kind of thing happening in Croatia. That is why the transformation I see personally of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce towards the Austrian Chamber of Commerce with which I have worked very closely. When you leave, entrepreneurs are proud to be members of the Chamber of Commerce. When you leave, you see that the Chamber of Commerce has a delegated public action on dual education. I was in Siemens in Vienna and the children who are going there to practice dual education and Siemens are extremely pleased to be in the Chamber of Commerce. The Chamber of Commerce has its own institute for education called the WIFI Institute which offered and co-operation and existed in the Republic of Croatia. This institute has developed standards of interest for 20,000 professions, would remind us that just for the sake of slowness and councils and what we had and the law recently on the qualification framework board will be accelerated, we have so far 30, WIFI to us and Austria the Chamber of Commerce offered us free of charge to take over their standards of occupation in vocational education. So there's a model, there's a way to ensure that the economy has, to see the benefit, that the institution that's been created for 168 years survives. I'm not in the mood for institutions to be put out overnight, to be pulsistic. This government has shown that it can cut parafiscal intrusions, and I personally say that I have proposed that two of them be abolished and abolished. And the way we're going, I think we should give it another chance to transform it, to go in this direction, to learn from smarter countries like Austria, and if that doesn't work, then we're ready to talk about the solutions that you're proposing tonight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30285	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, representative of Glamuzine.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30286	Thank you, Chairman. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure say the president gives MPs a word in order to which they have applied. Until earlier on the screen before colleagues Pavic was a colleague of Grozdana Peric, I didn't hear anyone calling her.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30287	You have a warning, you have a warning. The next replica, the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30288	Thank you. Dear counterpart Pavic, I do not know how you present it that you are some kind of government that abolishes the situation in the economy, given the number of imposes, given the amount or number of people who have left Croatia. So our economy, our entrepreneurs, our craftsmen are in a difficult situation, you've done nothing in particular, you've had extraordinary circumstances, so the situation in the financial markets, the ideal opportunity to implement reforms, nothing this government has specifically done. So, don't brag about the numbers you don't support, and now this crisis shows how much you haven't actually used one good climate to make Croatia a step forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30289	Dear Mr. Grmoya, I'm sorry I didn't see you so much at the debate on the national development strategy where we showed many figures. If we talk about unemployment, it has been said that 400,000 have increased by 5-6,000 unemployed, if we talk about employment 3 quarter 2020, the increase in employment to 67.8% has passed the first term of Andrej Plenkovic 100,000 new jobs. If we're talking about support for entrepreneurs 8 billion have been sent to 600,000 jobs so far. New measures that include directors, measures to reduce working time, measures for young entrepreneurs from 1.1. 130,000 kuna support. I personally lifted two measures, two parafiscal charges. Therefore, I can say from personal experience that I am for abolishing and reducing, for supporting entrepreneurs, and I have always struggled to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30290	Next replica, MP Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30291	Dear Representative Pavic, recently the Prime Minister pointed out, and tonight is MP Peric, and I believe that is your position, that membership is necessary because it is a tradition that lasts for a full, what, 168 years. So here you would make one comparison with the first tram in Osijek 168 years ago, and do you think it's really now time to finally get away from the institutions that still live in those times and replace them with, say, maybe a tram on electricity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30292	Well, that's exactly what I was saying, not the tram and the electricity and the spaceship, I'd make an Austrian model, and you'd shut down the institution. The institution that Austria has, which is owned by Germany, which France has, you would end it for pulsism, to be a little popular, to be courted. I say I am personally for entrepreneurs, I personally abolished two duties, personally advocated measures for entrepreneurs, personally I am in active employment policy measures especially to abolish SOR and to support young entrepreneurs that we have raised from 25 to 130,000 kuna so I think I have credibility in that. Your populism has brought you to 16% and you're where you are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30293	Next replica, the esteemed representative of the Domagoj Story.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30294	First, counterpart Nikolic as well as other colleagues who spoke today about the suspension of mandatory membership fees for the Chamber of Commerce never said that the economic chamber should be abolished just to be a model for voluntary membership. So they didn't talk about abolishing as you impute. Secondly, that there are more membership fees, means the level of membership fees to be paid. Today, many of your colleagues have mentioned 42 kunas, that 42 per month, that is 500 kuna per year, in 10 years 5,000 kuna. How many business entities who have paid these 5,000 kuna in 10 years, how many of them have ultimately benefited from the Chamber of Commerce, which is a key issue. If they didn't benefit, why would they pay? If the Chamber of Commerce is doing a good job and will be doing a better job in the future, then there will be sure to be those business entities who will be happy to pay the membership fee.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30295	Well, I'm glad to see this agreement tonight between MOST and SDP and that nice singing, but we're forgetting that you've been in power for four years, which you haven't abolished. We have been reducing parafiscal burdens, not you, we have been dispossessing entrepreneurs not you, we have ensured significant withdrawals of European funds not you, Plenkovic has secured 24 billion euros of which the good part goes to entrepreneurs, you have lost your government has lost a billion euros, is aware of that sir. In the CPR regulation, those countries that had had a crisis in 2008, and entered the EU before 2013, received 10% of the above. Your government didn't fight in Brussels for that 10% at the time. We could now have a billion euro more for entrepreneurs if you were doing something back then. You had your chance, you didn't take advantage.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30296	Next replica, MP Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30297	I agree with you, Mr Pavić, it would most likely be that 10% more if the Croatian Chamber of Commerce had proposed this to the Government of the Republic of Croatia at the time of Milanovic, here is to take a little, but I agree with you, you mentioned Austria's Chamber of Commerce and some other countries of France, etc., in France the first Chamber of Commerce was founded in Europe there 1600 and some years. And replacing the thesis that is related to the fact that the release from payment of membership means that someone to shut down the Chamber of Commerce is completely wrong thesis, but in freedom of speech, of course it's allowed. Whether, now, let us look at the few powers, the legal powers of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce of the Republic of Croatia, so which is regulated by law, but that would be discussed, but I will continue to do so later in my individual debate. The question is this: Croatian Chamber of Commerce's powers are miserable compared to to other countries. [[Intruder: Time.]] And you said it yourself, so it's time for it to change But it has nothing to do with membership fees. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30298	Thank you very much. Mr. Fabianic, I think you're a serious man, and I'm just glad we're moving away from the flossula and we're having an argument. That's exactly what I'm You need to see what powers are, you need to see how they get employers to really feel the loyalty they pay for, it's not about 42 kunas the question is what employers get for what powers they work for, let's say WIFI and the economic chamber in Austria deals with certification of mentors working in dual education. They have a elaborate system that's certified by the state. When you talk to employers in Austria and tell me we have so many certified mentors one Siemens etc., that in this direction we should go debate, we should give the opportunity to reform, we should give the opportunity to transform and see what they are, and we do not see that transformation in this bill. We're already seeing what Mr. Bully said about the fire-out intensity. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30299	The next replica, the esteemed representative of Davor, find it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30300	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Pavić, I think that by your constant repetition that the introduction of a voluntary membership fee of HGK actually means the abolition of HGK is enough to talk about the quality of HGK's work itself, because you are obviously also aware that the quality of this work is so bad that none of the entrepreneurs would willingly want to continue to finance it. But I don't understand what this is all about, that insisting on ruling that some more let's say a period of at least 2 years to change that, we've heard this many times tonight, because I'm going to remind you of a statement from March 2014 by HGK President who says, the confidence of the chamber is seriously violated and the first goal is to restore reputation and trust, the chamber must be more transparent and be a more quality economic service. So seven years later we're still groping. in place, which we expect will change now. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30301	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30302	I am glad that you are here tonight as a candidate for the mayor of Zagreb, and I believe that you will have many experiences in the construction of institutions and the management of institutions, so far you are leading, participating in the management of a small town. Institutions that have been created this way for years have a history, have some value, and also, if under the pressure of this kind of pulsism they collapse hard to build. Whether such institutions have a future, we see for example several countries, whether they have a usefulness, yes, whether a reform is needed, is, we are the first to criticise, but we are also the first to go in the direction that it should be transparent, that it should benefit entrepreneurs, but over some period and over time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30303	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, the Honorable Representative of the Stories.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30304	I consider my colleague Pavić to have injured the Rules of Procedure, Article 238, insulting a fellow member of parliament who then assesses what his colleague is capable of or is incapable of. My colleague Pavić praised himself and HDZ's government, ever since you were minister, since HDZ took over 200,000 people left Croatia, you've been so able to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30305	It was a replica, you have a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30306	I'm glad to see your colleague is finding your mayoral candidate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30307	You can't comment. On behalf of the Proposer, MP Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30308	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs and respected citizens of the Republic of Croatia who were still awake and follow us through the screen, I remained a little disappointed with this performance, I really expected more and I was very closely following because you were a colleague of Pavić just announcing and I wanted to know what you would say about Austria not in the sense of this cheap actually attacking in terms of shutting down the institution because I had already heard this rhetoric, but wondered what you would be prepared for the performances and I wanted to know what you would offer in terms of the Austrian model. I heard some pride here that was mentioned, but believe me, both Finland and Denmark and Estonia and Slovenia and Poland and Hungary and the Czech Republic are very proud countries. The most important companies to open, and many representations are being opened especially in the Czech Republic, Poland, Slovakia today, Estonia, not to speak as a digitalised paragon of the entire EU, I must say that these are very, very proud countries. So, I stress again, I'm so sorry that you are, that you have this rhetoric because I think you are, at least your discussions are always prepared. So, shutting down the institution I think it's, that it's unspeakable to even go now to unsettled and to say simply that that's not true because we didn't say it. So no one has shut down, say one institution in Estonia, no one has shut it down, in Slovenia has not been shut down, in the Czech Republic has not been shut down, in Hungary and Poland has not been shut down, and that old 150-year-old argument just asked Mrs. Oreshkovic why we are always going back to the past, so I would ask the same question, Mr. Pavić, why we always go back to the past. So these are the same institutions, we deliberately removed those data knowing that you would, knowing that you would use that information. So, all of these chambers I've given are 160, 170 years old, and in the case of Poland it dates back to 1809, and the modern economic chamber of Poland dates back to 1859 after the break-up of Prussia, Glivica is called, here's the particular economic chamber it came from. And now that you've said two and two years, so I don't think Croatian entrepreneurs have that kind of time anymore. And why do we think that is? So for the first 25 years in Croatia, the economic chamber saw rhinos, muflones, Mona Lisa, we talked about real estate, and then Mr Burilović came in 2015 and he himself talked about the vision of voluntary memberships that are in line with our EU trends, and we catch at least countries that were previously in socialism, we catch them, that we will reach this voluntary membership as was the vision of the very person who is today running the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. Since in 5 years he does not meet that vision, and best shown by data from financial reports because if we look at financial reports in the last 3 years we can easily see that the income structure is 70% in favour of going to mandatory memberships, and only 5% of the sale of services. Which means that this income structure hasn't moved at all in the last three years, and on the other hand we're talking about the announced vision we've been promising for the last five years for entrepreneurs to be voluntary, voluntary membership. And finally, what I'd like to say here is just spending money, which is that entrepreneurs would like to know why 8 million kunas spend on representations. I guess most of it goes to Shanghai, and also since it's their money, which is why despite the fact that there's been an increase in the cost of, for example, fairs, especially one Shanghai or Buenos Aires, Latin America that I've already stated was, which is why there's a fall from, for example, 2019 to '18. exports from one China, so we're not talking about Covid, we're talking business. But not only are they interested in why the Croatian Chamber of Commerce did not do so, that is why we have not made better exports with China, but they are also interested in our Croatian embassy where it has its own economic mission and we are talking about the double cost of public administration. Now our Croatian entrepreneurs at the end of the day would like to be as proud as you were in Austria. what this law gives Croatian entrepreneurs in Croatia the opportunity to be proud, not ashamed. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30309	Replica, Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30310	Thank you very much. Col. Troscott, your review of one of the historic speeches by Pavić, who defended the meaning of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, defends it means that 80% or 60%, 80% of the funds of the members of the people who are employers who are fighting for every job to pay he defends those who earn that money and spend it who knows di. It's indefensible, it's indefensible. For one place 540 fiscal, parafiscal duties we have hey, for one working place in my Zagora, it doesn't matter di, in Slavnoja we're going to do everything like, as a legislator. How about Mr. Pavic's statement, in this explanation, you said it was one of the historical speeches, you said well.../incomprehensible/... in my opinion it's a historic speech in defending those to say the Chamber of Commerce.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30311	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30312	First of all, I would answer that what Mrs. Oreshkovic asked me during the debate was why we are going back into the past and what is not a clear argument to date or record the Chamber of Commerce in the last 158 years that we cannot go into the market principle. So this really doesn't stand anywhere because at least the other chambers from countries that were once in socialism, and now in the EU, which have passed this transition, have gone from socialism to capitalist thinking, so they didn't have that problem that is listed here. So the example was, let us take an example, so countries that are better than us, who have done it and who have succeeded. And here's an example so we can reach maybe one Denmark and one Finland one day, why not. Here comes Estonia. Furthermore, Austria and Germany therefore have a very large number of members, therefore disproportionately larger than our Chamber of Commerce, but they have much better export per employee, which is relatively indicative of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30313	Next replica, distinguished representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30314	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I thank you for your compliments, and I can see that you are preparing for debates, and I am pleased to argue with you. Similarly, I thought about who you are until I became Minister of Labour and saw that on the one hand we have a great lack of working force in the lower level of vocational education, and on the other hand that 80% of the unemployed young people on the market make up people with high school education and lower. The solution to this, and once we get over the crisis in half a year, the year, the biggest remaining problem of Croatian employers will be the lack of qualified labour. The dual model of education is a solution, a dual model in many countries is carried out by an economic chamber. Now, at this point, I'm going to go disarm a system that can give us a work force solution in a year, and I don't think it's responsible, and I don't think it's necessary right now. Here's your argument, and here's your number.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30315	These are now, let's say, arguments that are more acceptable to me. That's why I'm saying I expected more from your argument, and our particular argument I'd say next. So, when the IT companies get away with, for example, Five and Defensecode, they, for example, complain about membership in the chamber or not to win, that they don't get what they need for the money they pay. And why am I saying that? This is important for an Infobip who is also an IT company that is a member of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, but when it comes to the US's international capital market and on the basis of $200 million, it becomes a unicorn, believe me that the Croatian Chamber of Commerce has helped it to promote absolutely nothing in the US market and trust me that the Croatian Chamber of Commerce does not help them with their restructurings in order to become the first possible company in Croatia to quote in New York Stock exchange. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30316	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Romana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30317	The parafiscal impositions shall indicate the non-taxes or different fees imposed by the State. Although they are called non-taxable, they have the same economic effects on entrepreneurs, craftsmen and citizens as taxes. Two, only in 2019, entrepreneurs, craftsmen and citizens paid more than 9 billion kuna for over 500 parafiscal duties. The parafiscal burdens include mandatory membership fees that entrepreneurs are forced to pay to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce as well as the Croatian Chamber of crafts. Such a way of working and financing the chamber must come to an end. And if this bill is accepted, it will be the first step towards that goal. I would mention again the government president's statement as well as MP Peric's statement that membership is necessary because it is a tradition that has been going on for 168 years. So I'd like to make a comparison with the first tram in Osijek 168 years ago, and whether it's time to finally move away from the facilities that still live in those times and maybe replace them with a tram on an electric or even a simple web app. Since it's now, let's see how effective this chamber is, I suggest that the replacement is a simple app on a smart phone. While Croatia has mandatory chambers, more and more IT experts register companies online in other countries and do not pay unnecessary charges. So I ask you, where do you want to be the Croatian economy, in the time of horse trams or in modern Internet times? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30318	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30319	Respected and respected colleagues, the crown of this debate is not as much of a bill as the government's testimony regarding the very proposal to amend the law. Something little about it was hinted at by colleague Ana Dark Taritash. So why is the Chamber of Commerce important and why does the Government reject this proposal? This is because they have the sympathies of a constantly elected judiciary, the establishment of a peace centre and the keeping of a register on the publishing and distribution of the press, the management of the directory of agents, the transmission of real estate, the issuing of certified extracts from the register to the traffic intermediary and the coordination, so these are public powers. For public authorities, public authorities should be financed by the State. That's why I and my colleague Pavic agree that, therefore, the Chamber of Commerce must really exist. But one question is the Chamber of Commerce di per se and what are its powers. Here are the powers the Croatian government considers important, unfortunately. But I think the Croatian Chamber of Commerce should play a more important role and we all agree on that. And that's what we all agree on. If we look at what other chambers of the economy are doing now, then we'll see that some issue of credits, a lot of them, are replacing the court register of the trade court, that among other things some water and the bonds register, it might be because we had this register that runs the Agrokor Chamber of Commerce that might not have happened. And we're not talking about the role of the Chamber of Commerce here. But I'm going to do a few more sentences on the role of the Chamber of Commerce. Our bonuses for the FINA, then we have a trade court that has its own register. About entrepreneurship other than the Croatian Employers' Association, which has its part in the part that is related to the Labour Act, which is business, which is all things that can be done by the Chamber of Commerce. We have administrative departments in the economy that have now moved from state administration to county administrations and we have regional development agencies by county. We have 10 institutions dealing with something that is somewhat in the realm of the Chamber of Commerce. And the Chamber of Commerce in that section has certain impotence, and I'm not getting into who's in the Chamber of Commerce right now, but we really have a problem that's not since yesterday, and it's about the Chamber of Commerce. And I remember time because I haven't been 10 years but I've been in politics for 30 years when the first national collective contract in the Republic of Croatia regarding minimum labour rights was signed by trade unions along with the Chamber of Commerce, and we haven't had an employer's association yet. At that time, the president of the strongest union was Lesar, who also sat here in the assembly. So we need to look at a little bit of what development is and what is evolution. And the fact is, that's how it is, and I'm really appealing to the ex-post mind, because I'm also sorry about what happened in the jargon, and I was wrong to say to Mrs. Secretary because I called her for something that she was, and I didn't read that there was an HDZ amendment. But what the HDZ amendment is about the national development strategy was my debate on the Committee on Labour, my colleague Pavić knows it very well. And we had an ex-post mind, and I'm glad that we have an ex-post mind, and we should all have an ex-post mind, just like I was wrong about the development strategy, at least this afternoon, I didn't. Now, if we are responsible and we are not really a cheap political demagogue, the reason I signed this to go into debate and the procedure is the very fact that this is an opposition proposal and that I thought it should come to the debate in the Croatian Parliament. But if we're not cheap demagogy, then we're not gonna deal with the shock therapy, but we're gonna give the Chamber of Commerce to prepare for what's waiting for her. So if nothing else in the analogy of fiscal responsibility, which means that I personally think this proposal is good but can't take effect 7 days from its publication. That's it. Irresponsible. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30320	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30321	Dear President, fellow MPs and MPs, I will start with what Mr. Marko Pavić said to me quite inappropriately and degradedly. He addressed several MPs who were also candidates in the local elections for Mayor of the City of Zagreb, so you tied it to the ability to manage institutions. And you have just made it clear by your comment that the Croatian Chamber of Commerce is governed by politics, not economic interest. And it may be one of the main arguments that speaks in favour of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce being restructured starting with how it is financed. We are discussing late nights, and we have already made several remarks that in this way the ruling send the opposition a message that respects the proposals and initiatives that come from our ranks, and today I am changing my mind that it is actually good to discuss in these late nights, I think that this was one of the most constructive, most justified, most supportive discussions we had in this meeting of the Croatian Parliament. And this has shown that different political options, different omens, world horizons and political programmes can talk, but indeed talk and debate the solutions that Croatia draws forward. Decisions that also benefit the citizens of the economy. Well, I support that, and I hope that there will be more of these late-night debates besides demagogy, populism and violations of the Rules of Procedure most often served by your members. And here I must also commend my colleague Sandra Bancic, I think that she has made one of the most qualitative contributions in the part in which she criticized the really insurmountable reasoning of the Constitutional Court's decision, although I must say that I do not agree with one part of her arguments, which is that the private sector cannot adequately replace the role played by state-organised or public institutions. That's not true, of course. The market can certainly be a much better service at the end of the day, we recently had the opportunity to see the chefs cook and how the state of Plekler cooks. From the other discussions, I will single out what Domagoj Milosevic said, which also says that he is aware of the problem in the work of the chamber, but that, like other HDZs, he would still give the body the opportunity to restructure and set three goals. He sought transparency, I suppose, in spending his finances, asked for a reorganisation that would speak of the objectives of the work being measured in order for associations and entrepreneurs to recognise the meaning of their work and commitment to these goals so that entrepreneurs would understand that the Croatian Chamber of Commerce is their house. I think it's all insistence on spent models that I can't give the results anymore. From the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the businessmen have just raised their hands and are looking for alternatives, we already have various associations and initiatives that serve what the Croatian Chamber of Commerce can no longer. When we talk about transparency, when we talk about reorganisation and since the time of Nadan Vidosevic, it was clear which direction the Croatian Chamber of Commerce should change if it wants to change. Unfortunately, however, it was the rest of the HDZ's political laziness, which is being managed and humanised by HDZ. And that is actually the only and main reason why you resist a very, very simple proposal, and I disagree that this would cause some kind of shock situation, I do not agree with what your colleague Fabianic said that the Croatian Chamber of Commerce should prepare for it. So the market and entrepreneurship function in a way that is very happy to finance everything that the economy has profit from when they see a service that is returned to them with some benefit. So, if there really was the capacity and the ability for the Croatian Chamber of Commerce to redesign itself, to devote itself to the objectives it should serve then, there should be no fear of the will of the businessmen to make their membership and their share in the Chamber of Commerce pay. But we are all aware of the fact that the only way to force them into it is to force this one. A coercion that simply doesn't yield results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30322	We have a replica, the esteemed representative Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30323	I would like to express my disagreement with this because the fact is that the Chamber of Commerce is an entity that had several hundred employees, and the question here is that you in your activity that you are engaged or engaged in a hundred activities, that you have a hundred workers and that within a week, a law that de facto deny you a good portion of your income is changed. That's why I wanted to point out that irresponsibleness. Now you can think of it as a shock therapy. It's now a question of what the court says.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30324	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30325	Yes, but at the same time we are aware of the fact that in the economy people are left without their jobs because they have no protection from the state and political structures. So we're not even. But I've been moved by your question to another topic that I haven't been able to talk about in these five minutes, which is the roles of the powers and themes that the Chamber of Commerce is dealing with at all. And that's also something Sandra Bencic talked about. We are actually in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, and we have this with tourist communities, we have this and with many other bodies we have parallel systems. So we can't compare our economic chamber with the economic chambers in other countries that we've been instructed to do because maybe in those countries we don't have the number of ministries that are in one way or another about the economy. So if we have the Ministry of Economy, then entrepreneurship and crafts, and like this, parts of what these ministries do or have or do not have economic chambers. Our problem is that we have parallel systems just so they can take care of the people they care about. We simply can't secure a job differently. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30326	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Davor Find.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30327	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30328	Please don't throw yourself away, give away...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30329	You got the point.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30330	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, the Honorable Representative of the Government, respected fellow MPs, and if there are any citizens who, looking at us here, have already been two hours in the night, I would also welcome them, for starters I would, I would clearly say that the party will support this proposal to amend the law and support the initiative to introduce voluntary membership in the HGK. If we loved her, she'd have done it to any of the previous governments, but we're where we are, and I hope now that we have the opportunity to change it again, that most of us will still raise our hand for it. But I would also like to point to one by one an important thing, which is that we all have to make sure together that if there is a suspension of the mandatory membership fee, that it doesn't end up being Pier's victory. Why do I say that? So as far as I understand the Law on the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the consequent Statute of the HGK, even if a voluntary, voluntary member is abolished, if voluntary membership in the HGK still exists tools that the HGK Assembly itself re-implements some other duties that would be mandatory to members. I hope this kind of development doesn't happen. But surely something would prevent it in the future would be if only HGK membership were voluntary. So, then really entrepreneurs, if they didn't like what HGK was doing, if they didn't approve of how they represented them, could leave that association or, of course, if at some point the work of the HGK was repaired, could return to membership. Therefore, we would not be forced to part of this association or that institution, nor to pay any, any burdens. So if this law comes to another reading, I will certainly suggest that, to go that way. There has also already been mentioning the government's view of these so on the government's position on this proposal to amend the law, what surprised me in the government's reasoning is anywhere the government is actually talking about an initiative to abolish mandatory membership. So, I'm not sure, but the government obviously didn't, she didn't read what it says in this bill of law, so this is where the initiative is talked about. The proposal to amend the laws on the abolition of mandatory membership, not mandatory membership, and to me, is actually very disappointing that the Government has made such an unserious, unserious approach to the subject. And here we heard from the ruling majority that entrepreneurs allegedly are very important to the government. It also saddens me that today he is not here with us throughout this debate and representative i.e. The president of the Committee on Economy who also refused to accept this proposal, Mr. Tusek. I believe he would be the right person to advocate, to advocate the interests of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce in this assembly. There's so much from me in these tiny nights, thank you very much until the next opportunity.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30331	Okay. Next individual debate, MP Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30332	Thank you very much. Here I would eventually ask a few of us to ask that MP to tell all colleagues and colleagues to come to the vote because this is very important. This parafiscal imposition, these leeches who drink blood to the Croatian economy, the Croatian entrepreneur, meant to come to the Croatian worker on Friday and support this bill because there is no other. And I believe that from most colleagues, Pavić has left himself and the vice president of the Sanader Assembly that they will also inform their members of the club and will accept this proposal that goes in favour of our citizens, primarily entrepreneurs, and therefore to the people they are paying and to whom they are giving jobs. I also expect the government to change its mind and that it will finally come to the protection of those who create additional value. I repeat the extra value, and there are fewer. If we keep going like this and if we don't take any action, if we have parafiscal intrusion then in this scope, then we won't have any more entrepreneurs or workers. All of this is visible, it's visible that we have 6% of GDP from evicted Croats, so through the lines. So politics has moved our people out and it's huge money. It is more funds than it gives us per year through EU funds, it does not give, it is essentially what the Croatian people paid through membership fees. So, we're in a serious situation, and I think that this debate that is now in the night hours is now two hours and 10 minutes, that it made sense. Unfortunately, the government is the i.e. The president of the assembly who has already decided to be in these hours, but I expect this proposal to be heard, this vote among entrepreneurs, among workers, among craftsmen, this proposal will get a positive view. And it's a positive attitude, and here we go, basically entrepreneurs, craftsmen they're talking about these problems about parafiscal intrusions, what they suck and drink blood. So this is a fight against bloodthirsty in Croatia means the development of Croatia and the economy and entrepreneurship and craftsmanship. I think it's all clear here, although you, too, are aware of most of it, although there is only fellow Pavić, that you are aware that the businessman, the entrepreneur, the craftsman can no longer simply endure this pressure of 540 parafiscal mandates, and I believe that the government will accept it. I am sorry that the government's representative has not shown itself once after these reasoned debates, I believe she is also aware as a representative of the government that she is aware of the need to reduce parafiscal burdens. Once again, I hope that on Friday, here will be 2 hours and 11 minutes, and in the morning, all MPs who would like to support this proposal will come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30333	Finally on behalf of the promoter, MP Plasimir Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30334	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs and our dear citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are still awake, if you are and follow this debate only a few short points which I would like to sum up this debate. First of all, he would like to return only briefly to public authority as Mr Fabianic said when he cited the public authority himself, so these public powers are there because the government said they should be there. Maybe I didn't say it right, but here I'm paraphrasing it, it's actually a big question for what if these, if at all, powers were necessary, no one ever asked entrepreneurs. For example, we have already stated that the court of honor as such in the 10th month was abolished because of the crown's official decision and the main argument, the main argument was financial unsustainability. But it is also questionable how many members of the Chamber of Public Authorities themselves of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce are asking, in particular, the court of honor for the reasons that they know that there is trade law and commercial courts in the case of more serious misunderstandings or problems between companies. So it's a big question now and those entrepreneurs are never, never asked. The argument of loss and fall in income, I'm glad we touched that too for the reason it's the daily life of entrepreneurship. It's the daily life of entrepreneurship. And unfortunately our entrepreneurs and this isn't populism, our entrepreneurs don't have the luxury of 30 years adjusting their business, they don't have it. So some entrepreneurs only have one day for certain decisions that can change tomorrow. In that sense, the main argument is that the Croatian Chamber of Commerce must feel this power so that our entrepreneurs can help because if you are not a doctor or you cannot recognise the diagnosis of the patient itself, then you cannot help. What I'd still like to set aside are three more points I noticed during this debate. First of all, the union of the opposition, so we were all here, so I was very pleased. Not in the sense that now, not in terms of the opposition that now opposes itself solely for the opposition of the ruling party, but I believe that this is a subject that is particularly important for our entrepreneurs and that we have managed to be all together of those topics, although both worldly and ideologically we differ greatly for every praise. Furthermore, I think that we have continued to practice well on the board, that this was one determined and constructive debate honestly I personally enjoyed as a proposing and I would like to thank everyone. And what I would like to appeal to is also an invitation to everyone, that all clubs are calling on their members to respond to as many votes as possible and thus show respect, respect for our entrepreneurs for the reasons that all clubs here were present in the presentations and I think it would be very good if we responded to as much as possible and we try to bring this law to a real realization of reforms. Thank you very much, good night, everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-27-0.u30335	Thank you. This concludes the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. We continue this morning at 9:30 Report on the effects of implementing measures under the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases during the Covid-19 disease epidemic caused by the SARS-COV-2 virus in the Republic of Croatia for the period 11 March 2020 to 15 January 2021. Good night. Session interrupted at 2.16 hours. The following statement of view on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club is a respected representative of Martina Vlasic Iljkic.
