ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u42750	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 226.St. 2. I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the 7th session agenda with 8 new points. The proposal to supplement the agenda was submitted by electronic means. Art. 227. The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Art. 206. The Rules of Procedure lay down that, by an urgent procedure, laws are adopted which comply with EU documents if requested by the applicant, and are not voted on, and that is, point 1 of the proposed supplement that you have received, in accordance with Article 1 of the Rules of Procedure. The 206th century is 1. I hereby declare that this legislative proposal is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. How appropriate. The 225th century 4th century. The rules of procedure of the written objections at the remaining points of the draft draft agenda have not been established that all the proposed items have been included in the agenda of the 7th session.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u42792	The next statement of view, on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, is the esteemed representative of Ante Prkacin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u42793	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Dear Croatian public, I welcome you too because I have started a very good communication. Yes, with you. So, in Belgrade with the Croatian ambassador's residence, they took off the flag and threw it in a container. I wish he had been thrown into the container instead of the flag because as far as I hear from the Croats in Vojvodina, he so successfully and well represents the Croatian interests and interests of the Croatian people. During that time, Serbian tycoons in eastern Croatia are buying the country, Serbian agents and a complete agent are taking over Croatian media space, and neatly all this time the serious sum of money via the Serbian Orthodox Church from Croatia goes to Serbia. I'll be here, and that's how I started, like Caton the Elder more than 2,000 years ago. in the Roman Senate, when he said "Cetrum censeo Carthage esse delendam", I believe that Carthage should be destroyed, we do not have Carthage to destroy, but I do believe that we should destroy the contract of the Croatian state with the Serbian Orthodox Church and form two teams, one legal and other technical professions and return Croatian property where we should. In that direction, I was speaking, in this direction I had serious talks, though very short-lived, with the president of the Croatian government and I am pleased with what he said to me, and very dissatisfied with what my colleague Pupovac told me. He announced through the media that he would come and give a lecture on the Serbian Orthodox Church. But I didn't hear anything. There are no colleagues Deura and Djakic, which do not help a friend in trouble because I often look back on the Serb-Croatian coalition that history will talk about and give someone a negative assessment. She has an old folk, “Heroes are known in trouble, in trouble, to good friends. ” Nor did the Pod appear to be a hero, nor did his friends show themselves to his friends at that time. However, since I will talk every time about the Serbian Orthodox Church and that problem, I will now stop and return to something else. Here's my age, and I got one record, but here's just one name and last name, fra. Dominic Crissian Gerbec. This is what my Hoss guys gave me. They claim that this young man resembles a famous Croatian bishop and Ban Petar Berislavic, who in 1513 began defending the Croatian people against the Turks, so he did so until 1520. when somewhere near the Krbba field, unfortunately, he lost his life defending the Croats. At the time of Petar Berislavić, Croatia was in an extremely difficult situation after 1493. and a heavy defeat in the Krbaski field. Croatia is in a similar situation today, 20, 25. After the greatest military victory in Croatian history. Obviously, something is not going right in this Croatian-Dan state and something needs to be changed. Certainly, in the name of my Hoss and in the name of common sense, I will support this young man, especially since there are people in the ranks of Catholic priests with valuable people, along with the husbands as he was mentioning Berislavic or blissfully rested by Cardinal Stepinac, there are men, there are manticians that I would not let into the church yard, let them lead the Holy Mass and that those Croatian states and Croatian people lead in times like these. So, this young man from Central Bosnia, from Zenica, I learned something about him because I eventually spent part of the war road there, because it might be a little too severe, but this one can take more as a warning and as a lesson to change something in Croatian politics. Thank you very much, here's even 10-15 seconds extra.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u42914	Now, according to the announcement, the views of representatives' clubs and independent representatives follow. He is the first respected representative of William Matula on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u42915	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. We, as representatives of the Parliament, are certainly obliged and try to enjoy the citizens, the citizens, their rights, their interests that we represent here. Now I'm going to ask you to try to get into the role of the author of a novel or maybe a collection of songs, maybe you're writing amateur, I don't know, maybe one of you, right now, doesn't come to mind, maybe you're both some of you and professional writers. Now imagine the next one. There are criteria brought by the Ministry of Culture and Media to evaluate the quality of novels, collections, essay collections, translation and so on, be careful with the following criteria. I'll try even louder because I can't make it louder, colleagues. I'm probably wasting my time. [[Please, colleagues.]] But well, yes, yes, yes. [[Sandader: Fellows.]] It's about the next one. Imagine that a top critic wrote positive criticism about you. And about another writer, he wrote this equally respected critic extremely negative criticism. But yours, for example, went out in some newspapers that were evaluated by the Ministry of Culture with four points and you for a very good criticism of that respected critic, you get four points and your colleague, a colleague, gets for negative criticism of 10 points. Here is one of the farsi on which more than 130 writers and writers wrote, these are distinguished by our writers and writers, translators and translators who had the need to sign a petition on numerous unimaginable criteria of quantification of quality. Let's say one of these quantifiers is the number of books sold or borrowed in libraries. Now, to assume, first of all, that the previous visibility of the author and the amount of funds that the publisher has, in order to advertise the whole thing, can have a significant impact on how much a book will be at some point in the media, how visible it will be, how much, in addition, and what kind of character that person knows why he can produce the really cheapest tabloid scandals, and therefore for some reason there is, that, being interesting, sell copies or maybe even be borrowed. As far as one of the criteria is concerned, it's a matter of reward. We should know that unfortunately for poetry today there are a lot less festivals and a lot less reward is awarded for poetry although we have fantastic poets and poets, but in this criterion there are no such prizes, so those who have prizes for prose simply have far more opportunities and chances to win. Then there's the question of hosting festivals. Also, if people are invited to these festivals, they do not necessarily have to present books, some of them present themselves, they are called on by well-known authors, they are worth promotions of books, but they are the organisation of their own publisher, he is in charge of it. And that's why people are asking the Ministry of Culture and the media to cancel out this formulated criteria and to replace the numerical indicators of reception with more adequate guidelines for aesthetic evaluation of literary works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u42987	The next presentation of the position on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u42988	The chairman, my fellow MPs and counsellor. The right to propose legislation is the right of each of us parliamentary representatives, but we do not have such a possibility when it comes to proposing different strategies. Such a right, such power has actually only a government. And I ask the question can the government, which is made up of a political party itself accused of corruption and whose largest number of ministers and other officials have been infused in the biggest corruption affairs, be the one to refer the HS to the Anti-Corruption Strategy for a new period? I would like to remind you, what I have pointed out so many times so far, the 2015-2020 Anti-Corruption Strategy has highlighted the duration. Through the competent authorities, especially through the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy, whose member I have sought to update this issue, but it seems to me that this has not produced any specific results. Therefore, together with my professional associates, I have found a way and a solution, which is that on today, I have made a proposal to the HS for a conclusion that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to consider the Anti-Corruption Strategy which I have now submitted. There are several important chapters, among other things, regarding the need to elaborate or amend certain provisions of the Constitution, especially in the part in which the relationship between the President of the State and the Government is defined, given that we see in practice that much does not work as it does. I asked that the amendments to those provisions restricting the work of the law enforcement authorities or making it politically dependent, such as the extension of the term of office of the attorney general, from 4 years to 7 or 8 without the possibility of reelection. I asked for the area of transparency to rise to a higher level and for the full publication of all payments and payments from all public budgets to be bound by anything financed by the public budget. I asked that the existing Committee on Conflict of Interest be transformed into one, much stronger, by powers stronger, and by the work round the body and that the body be given powers and tasks that are currently under way in the Republic of Croatia. One of these areas is also an analysis of corruption risks. So in the prevention system, we lack a body that will read the law and tell us what are the faults or shortcomings of that law that can lead to corrupt practices or bodies that will say that there is simply something in the system that is nowhere on the radar, and that is exactly the kind of corruption that blooms. I have requested the establishment of a whole series of registers, primarily a register of all business relations with all public authorities, so we would not have to ask HBOR to deliver some credit agreement but would be available to us at any time via the Internet, so that we could also monitor transactions, so as to answer the question whether the loan is returning at the scheduled amounts and within the scheduled time limits. I asked for those measures to be implemented in the area of justice which would change the way the heads of the individual state bodies were elected, as well as the way and appointments of the judges themselves. I asked for the reconstruction of our counties, cities and municipalities to be implemented in a way that reduced their number, to form regions, and I asked for reform of electoral legislation. And especially what I want to point out is something that was still requested by the Commission in 2017 to decide on a conflict of interest, which is a whole series of rules that bind representative bodies at the level of counties, cities and municipalities. Local elections are ahead of us, the state has done nothing to regulate conflict of interest at the level of representative bodies. So the councilors, whether county, city, general, must be subject to certain prohibitions and restrictions, in order not to come to the practice we have had all these years, which is that after entering representative duty, they are more successful in dealing with their companies through the municipality, city or county in which they are acting public duty. I will insist that this Strategy be discussed within the deadlines provided for by the Rules of Procedure of the HS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u42989	With this, we have exhausted the final debates on behalf of the clubs and for the full session today. We will continue the session on Wednesday, May 5th at 9.30 p.m. by taking the club stand. Here, have a nice weekend, everybody. Session interrupted at 12.29 hours. Next debate, distinguished representative Barbara Antolic Vupra on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u43149	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, the respected public. There's not many of us, it's Friday, there's local elections. Understandably, what is being done in the local elections is, above all, the activity of our parliamentary representatives, especially us who are also candidates in the same. However, it is not understandable that money from the local budget is being spent so incredibly rudely for the purpose of promoting and campaigning local powerful men, local now mayors, mayors, mayors and therefore our money where through the media is selectively showing only their work, where they are called only similar in the open, only in the line and criticism of the opposition you can't hear because the opposition can't even get an opportunity to hear it. What kind of country is that, one-sided, one-minded? Lex Sheriff made it very possible, though, so that local budget will be available for such actions. Media that are often in hands and not only of political powers but also of business power print 20 thousand free copies that are delivered to citizens' addresses where lies, meals, insults are often shown on the cover. And what's the possibility of standing up to that, what's the possibility? Deabilities that can be in 30 days, so the boss is gone. Second, you can sue and sue for years, nothing. So you don't have the right answer, it's unfair it doesn't contribute to the democracy of this country's society, it stops the processes. And what we have as one of the holidays, here is the meeting of the local elections, too little mentioned and without the content of May 1st. So the protection of the work and the work that should be celebrated in that day will be transformed into a party of those same powers, so lived the First May of the Powers and not the Work. The first of May, in which we are in the announcement of amendments to the Labour Act, also delaying some solutions from the environment, we are somehow trying to resolve from working conditions to some other normative values that work should have in front of it, to better regulation of overwork, to better regulation of working conditions, to regulation of new work from home, from home, from house, but in all of this, regulation of course and minimum wage that is outside of that law as something that is actually there at our door, but not enough, not to say how many pensions have been made out of work insufficient and are not normal for survival. What is very important is that we do not look at the work or through the National Resistance and Recovery Plan, and that is very sad if we know that 80% of people working in Europe are not satisfied with their work and that a dissatisfied worker contributes to an unsatisfactory society. So in order to be able to access this work and employment problem at all, it needs to be seen more widely and addressed from work ethics, from school to the aforementioned Labour and Other Rights that arise from work, minimum wage, retirement. So, a satisfied man with a work that performs is the foundation of a good society and nothing is agreed on, just important beans for local elections. Long live May 1st.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u43242	The following statement of view on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Ljubica Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u43243	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here's what I'm going to talk to you about today about hiring people with disabilities since here's the International Labour Day and St. Mary's Day Day tomorrow. Joseph of the Workers, St. Joseph, who cares about, who is the protector of the Croatian Parliament and of the Croatian state but I can argue that he is also the protector of people with disabilities who are being employed here in view of what I am about to say. In the term of office of this Government, so from 2016 on here, so by the end of 2020, we have recorded a significant number of persons with disabilities from HZZ. 12,400 people with disabilities were employed during that period. Many will say it's not much, but compared to the previous period, it trusts me, it's a lot. This government is investing largely in hiring people with disabilities. We all know that persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia are employed in the open labour market and in the protection of employment or so on. protection and integration workshops. We always like to say that employment in the open labour market is what we want, so I will now mention that in the protection and integration workshops that we have in Croatia a total of 14.7 protective and 7 integral, it does a little more than 500 people with disabilities. So most people with disabilities are around 11 450, working on an open labour market. In protection workshops like I said, just over 5,000ths, of which almost half, 300 people with disabilities are employed in the largest protection workshop, URIHO facility, Zagreb's Institute for Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, which this year marks its 75th year of existence. Given the circumstances that we are in, given the pandemic, the URIHO facility will not be able to mark its 75-year existence in the way it was planned and will mark it in the way appropriate to the pandemic throughout the year. Therefore, in the following week, on 5, 6 and 7 May, the URIHO facility will have open doors days and would like everyone who can visit this facility because you will receive answers to all issues related to the employment of persons with disabilities regardless of whether they are employment in protective or integral workshops or employment in the open labour market. There people know everything because they and the people with disabilities they receive in their work relationship, when they professionally rehabilitate them, send them to the open labour market. It's a wonderful integration since many people think that hiring in protective workshops is just a game. However, there are also people who have no disability, and there they all earn bread together and feed their families. So, here, in the following week visit the URIHO facility, of course with respect to all epidemiological measures in these 3 days, you can get answers to all questions And here's the last thing I want to do is end this phone booth and I want to wish the URIHO facility a lot more success in the work and congratulations on the 75th birthday. [[Intruder:]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u43426	The next presentation of the position, distinguished representative Veljko Kajtazi, on behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u43427	I would like to thank the esteemed vice president of HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. Taught on my statement from October last year, and regarding the violation of the armenian truce, in the conflict between our two friendly countries, Azerbaijan and Armenia, today I want to say a few sentences about the current situation, since it cannot be heard much either in our media or in our assembly. The conflict I mention unfortunately resulted in an open war conflict that lasted 44 days. The conflict was halted last November 10th when a tripartite statement on the ceasefire of all military activities signed by President Putin, President Aliyev and Prime Minister Pasinjan was signed. According to information I receive, as a member of the International Parliamentary Friendship Group of Croatia and Azerbaijan, all captured by the Azerbaijani army have been returned to the territory of Armenia. The only exception is a group of about 60 members of the Armenian army who acted on the territory of Azerbaijan after a signed statement from November last year that confirmed, as I said, a complete ceasefire and all military activities between the two countries. The group is accused of killing an Azerbaijani soldier and of seriously hurting a civilian deep behind the Azerbaijani line, after the war has officially ended. As the group mentioned, it acted on the internationally recognised territory of Azerbaijan, and all after the signed truce, Azerbaijan did not consider them prisoners of war, and they were prosecuted. If it goes with full respect for the agreed truce, everyone must refrain from further actions and provocations. As a member of the International Parliamentary Friendship Group, I sincerely hope that this problem will be resolved as soon as possible and in behalf of the peoples of Azerbaijan and Armenia who have the right to peace and security. Although the conflict lasted relatively short, the damage is great, and the problem that we know very well is the problem of mines. In 4 months after the open conflict ended, 20 Azerbaijani died of mine explosives, including 14 civilians. In addition, as many as 85 people were injured by the effects of mine-explosive devices. Since the problem is unfortunately close to us, I hope that the Armenian side will deliver maps of the location where mine explosives have been set up as soon as possible to prevent further civilian casualties. As a signator of a number of international agreements, I believe that our country should act more actively and, in accordance with international law and international humanitarian law, insist on respecting it. And as a member of the Interparliamentary Friendship Group, I would like on these grounds, and with the aim of establishing peace on these principles, to support Azerbaijan and the international community more in order to achieve peace within the shortest time in that space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47386	And now we move to the first point of today's day, that's: No. 129. The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the Law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development Mario Šiljeg, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47387	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS, the Honorable Parliamentarians and MPs. So, before you there is a bill on amendments to the Water Act. The draft law is discussed by the working bodies of HS, the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture as a parent committee, and we thank the members of both committees for their constructive discussion. These amendments to the Water Act required access to compliance with the obligations of the Republic of Croatia in response to a letter of notification from the European Commission dated 10.10.2009. under which the Commission has assessed that the Republic of Croatia has not properly transposed the provisions of the Environmental Impact Assessment Directive, the Habitats Directive and the Water Framework Directive. Namely, art. The 11th century. The Water Act is permitted to exploit gravel and sand by extracting from renewables in waterways and other surface water bodies through the concession Treaty if it contributes to the maintenance of water and waterways on internal waters. For the implementation of these procedures, an appropriate environmental impact assessment shall be carried out, i.e. an environmental network acceptability assessment according to specific regulations in the field of environmental protection and nature protection. However, the European Commission has assessed the provision by the contested Member States. 11th century 2. The Water Act in the part in which an exception to the implementation of an appropriate environmental impact assessment is prescribed or an assessment of the acceptability of the ecological network according to specific regulations, which relate to cases of riverbed cleaning, in order to increase the capacity for the absorption of coastal waters in the further sequence of flood prevention and maintenance of their waterway. This proposal deletes this exception from carrying out an appropriate environmental impact assessment and an ecological network assessed by the European Commission in question, thus ensuring compliance with those EU directives and also removing the consequences of the possible initiation of a judicial procedure for infringement of EU law. However, the proposal for a law retains the exception to the mandatory implementation of the environmental impact assessment process or to the assessment of the environmental network for procedures carried out in cases of protection and rescue of human, animal, material and cultural goods and the environment in floods, and the removal of the consequences of floods in cases of an urgent and unsustainable implementation of flood defence measures, which is in accordance with Article 2 of the Law. 8. The Act on the Protection of Nature and Art. 79. Environmental protection laws. Furthermore, this proposal for a law further regulates provisions on the Water Institute, whose establishment is foreseen in the water management strategy of 2008 and the possibility of its establishment is provided for by the Water Act in continuity of the last 10 years, which was also discussed in the HS when the Water Act was adopted in June 2019. As is known, the monitoring of surface and underground waters is the basis for qualitative and quantitative management of water resources and is now carried out by the institution through the Chief Water Economic Laboratory of the Croatian Waters. The monitoring results form a database for the implementation of the water management plan of the main plan document according to the EU Water Framework Directive and serve among other things to report to the European Commission on the state of water in the Republic of Croatia, and in relation to the achievement of the objective of the Water Framework Directive, which is to enable good and achieve the good state of all water. The European Commission, in line with the guidelines of the European Green Plan on Water Protection, and with the aim of protecting the health of European citizens by means of zero pollution ambition, as well as the conclusions of the evaluation of EU water legislation, in particular the Water Framework Directive, expects the acceleration of all the activities and measures set out in those plans in order to achieve a good state of EU waters in the next 6-year cycle of 2022 to 2027, while reducing existing pressures on water resources and excessive use of water resources. In this respect, the European Commission shall, through a system of informal communication with Member States, all Member States. The EU has addressed to pilots, in particular the EU pilot on this issue, a number of issues and recommendations that must be incorporated into the '22 management plans. until '27, and then implement during that period. All the reasons for the separation of this important segment from multiple cases of business of Croatian Waters and its implementation within the Water Institute are stated. The proposed amendments to the Water Act, the organisational form of the Water Institute, will accordingly adapt to its mixed subject-matter, on the one hand professionally operational, on the other hand scientifically as public institutions in accordance with the Law on Institutions. In fact, the Institute of Water cannot immediately acquire the legal position of a scientific organisation in this respect because it does not meet or fulfil the conditions for a scientific organisation laid down in the regulations of the Law on Scientific Activity. In view of the above, the Institute of Water will, after its establishment, issue a permit to carry out the scientific activities referred to in Article 1(2). 212th century. 2nd century. 2nd century. 2nd century. 2nd century. 2nd century. 2nd century. 2nd century. 2nd century. Water law and the acquisition of the legal position of a scientific organisation in accordance with the rules on scientific activity within the time limit prescribed by the Regulation establishing the Water Institute or the Statute of the Water Institute. This bill will also extend the round of general acts, which are in agreement with the Ministry as founder of the Institute, to the Administrative Council of Water and, with the status, are documents such as the financial plan and other key documents, if necessary, of the Institute. Furthermore, this proposal will guarantee the right of all land-booked owners to compensation for the market value of real estate which, under the power of the Water Act, has become a public water good. In practice, it is a common situation for the water flow to membrane the change in the flow and submerged the private particles, so they become the trough of the new water flow and the Water Act determines that the same ex-lega is public water good and as such is entered in land books regardless of who owns the land. Provisions of Art. 1 236th century. The proposed law thus leaves the right to the private owner of a market value compensation in accordance with the general rules of property law and art. The 50th century. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia shall, in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, be restricted or seized. How could you say that? 236. The Water Act was fully applicable to the proposal for a law needed to be corrected and misinvited in the same way, and the draft law correctly stated the appeal to the Article. 231st century 1st and Article 1st. 232nd century 4th century. The proposal for a law also corrected the wrong call in Art. Article 141(2), point 3. Water law. Finally, this proposal for a law is implemented consistently horizontally in line with the entire basic text of the Water Act with the Law on the System of State Administration, which was adopted in the meantime, and concerning the amendment of the term central national administrative body with the expression of the body of state administration. Other provisions of the Water Act remain unchanged and all legal solutions under the existing law are maintained, thus ensuring legal continuity in water management in the Republic of Croatia. Once again, I would like to thank the parliamentary representatives and the representatives for a very constructive debate through the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture and I would like to thank you for your attention. Respect.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47388	Thank you very much. Please stay here because we have more replicas, the first is a respected representative of Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47389	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, Madam Director. Here is an amendment to the law that we have initiated with amendments, and we have changed it to allow for the cleaning of the troughs of our rivers. Objections by the Green Associations which have produced fruit with the European Commission and their opinion which have been addressed and the debate which has been held, but which nevertheless removes from Directive 2000/60 in which, in Article 32, exemptions are possible from the requirement to prevent further deterioration or to achieve a good water condition, subject to special conditions. Where failure is due to unforeseen or exceptional circumstances, particular floods, droughts or reasons of prevailing social interest. I think it's primarily social interest and that in this law I will continue to insist that it be what it is, which is cleaning up the floods of gravel, sand, earth, wood in the roots of rivers and water streams, because environmental protection is not Use [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] nor on all our channels that influence these rivers. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47390	Thank you very much. The answer to the respected Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47391	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, MP, I thank you for your question. What I can say in answer to your question that in the Republic of Croatia under the current law, and in particular by this proposal and by amending the additions that I hope the HS will adopt is allowed to exploit gravel and sand, but with the proper environmental impact assessment and evaluation of the need for environmental impact assessment, i.e. by keeping an eye on the status and state of the ecological network. Accordingly, the only thing that we may have a certain misunderstanding between your attitude and our attitude is that when extracting the gravel and sand that are allowed, an environmental impact assessment or the state of the ecological network should be made.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47392	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47393	Your Honor, Secretary of State. All that you've brought out here today can be summed up, I don't know if you're aware that the Water Institute has been established for 11 years, 11 years, so it shows one ability or inability to establish an institute or one scientific institution that would deal with water. So, your speech I put in Google translates was incomprehensible and what Google translates here told me was that we are still here discussing an additional bed of monopolized and legalized state racket about this institute that you're talking about, so some studies were going out that would be conducted by certified racketeeres with a party card. So it's about another institute, one additional state institution to increase the earlage and increase clientelism, that's what your exposure said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47394	Thank you very much. The answer to the respected Secretary of State. Excuse the violation of the Rules of Procedure, my colleague Pavić, what is the damage to his rules of procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47395	Art. In 238, my colleague Troscott, I haven't seen you at all water conferences in the last 10 years where I've been, I haven't seen you in professional circles, I haven't seen you, so I know you want to take political points now, but it doesn't work like that, the Institute of Water will be a good institution, scientific, will link the research sector and the sector of science and the economy, and I congratulate the Croatian waters and the ministry on that and you don't insult the representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47396	Comrade Pavić, you are aware that this was a replica, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but you must receive a warning. I ask you now that we do not accidentally move forward with the violations of the Rules of Procedure because I will be very strict in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and with the warnings. My colleague Troscott, you insist on hurting the Rules of Procedure? ... All right. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47397	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Art. In 238, Mr Pavić used a rhetoric similar to that used by Mr Bačić in 2018, because Mr Mrsic then also pointed out in these discussions that it would be an institution that would become additionally earful and where people from Croatian Waters and additional employees would therefore be party employees, and therefore we would increase additional public institutions, we would increase clientelism and further increase the prices of communals originating from such an institute.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47398	Thank you. I asked you not to use and do not abuse the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure, you can replicate, you can have an individual discussion, you can have a debate on behalf of the club, you can finally speak, you have a free speech. All of this you can say and the institution of the breach of the Rules of Procedure is something else, I ask you not to make fun of it literally, with the institution of the breach of the Rules of Procedure and I, of course, warn you because it was a typical replica. A reply to the replica of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47399	Thank you very much, counselor. I'm not going to be malice, but maybe I'll privatize this Assembly speaker a little bit, so except as a statesman, I'll answer you as a university professor who deals with water for 22 years or you teach these colleges at the University of Zagreb and the University of the North. If anything is useful and valuable in the water economy, then it is to raise the quality of scientific work in the water economy and if we have had a very specific proposal or impulse to establish this institution, it is to communicate to the European Commission, or their view on the violation of certain directives, in particular in terms of water monitoring. What you tell him that your colleague who sat in your club recently and was the minister in charge of this area, and in formal and informal communication, supported this initiative and it's not true that we haven't been able to establish it in 11 years, so 11 years has been left with strategic documents the possibility of establishing such an institution. and the possibility of this law is made mandatory. [[Thank you, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47400	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47401	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr Secretary of State, as you pointed out, we are amending this law because there has been a breach of European law, and the European Commission has estimated that we have not properly transposed certain directives. I have looked at the five-year period of Croatian membership in the EU, as far as we have had a violation of rights, this would allow us to conclude that we are not stepping down from other Member States and that the largest number of rights we have in the field of environmental protection, in those 5 years of membership, so 7 of them is not a large number. But I'm curious if you've been doing an analysis at the ministry, which is why this violation of law is taking place? Is it a problem for us to be late for the transposition of the directive because we feel that we will not actually be able to apply them well in practice, and in that case, would it be a good one for the previous action that, in the creation of a directive together with European representatives, we lobby that these directives might be do a little differently or do we look for exceptions? [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47402	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47403	Thank you very much. You have well concluded that when we are doing all the rights violations in this segment within our ministry and we are talking first and foremost about the environment and about nature protection and the water economy, and in some parts where they are touching energy directives, it is true, and this is one of our initiatives to unite all the tasks that will deal with monitoring, scientific bases, assign one professional and scientific institution, going towards having as few of these deviations as possible, but I would like to point out once again, that we are actively following the adoption of directives and specifics of Croatia instills in them, so we have succeeded for example. in the case of restrictions on arsenic concentration, which is one of our main problems in Slavonia, we have succeeded in agreeing with the European Commission to result in 3 time periods which will allow us to achieve all quality parameters for the health of water for human consumption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47404	The next replica is a respected representative called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47405	Dear Secretary of State, when I listen to your debate and your answers, then I remember a joke about Hansel. When Ivica came home and Dad asked him, "Well, Ivica, you said you knew all the questions on the test and you got one?" and Ivica said, "I knew the questions, but I didn't know the answers." So now I'm asking you, is it true that since 2019, or even when you passed the law, you knew that you were doing the opposite of the EU directives or that you were warned and now you know that the EU has been asking for an amendment? And is it true that this Institute of Water Economy is founded so that you can be in charge of it? Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47406	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47407	Thank you very much. As for the person who will be at the head of the institute, I am, as you know, the Secretary of State responsible for the water economy, the university professor at two cathedrals, I thank God, I have somewhere to return tomorrow with very good positions and with the work I love, just as I love this work I'm on today. Who will be the director of the future institute will be determined by conducting a public tender and will be elected the best candidate. As regards this time that you said from 2019 to today, I can say as well in all other issues of active communication with the European Commission, so we actively communicated this issue during that period, meaning from 2019 to today, past all relevant possibilities of possible exceptions to this legislative proposal and comparison and with legal solutions in other EU Member States, here I am primarily thinking about our neighbouring country of Slovenia, this, came to a conclusion together with the EU Commission that such a provision is today [[Intruder: Thank you.]] /incomprehensible/... what is acceptable is fully consistent with the EU Commission's views [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47408	Please, let's stick to time. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47409	Dear Secretary of State, what was it, 8, 9 years ago? We stood together in short shirts white with the message "Save Neretva Valley", we fought side by side against the project Upper Horizons, and I have to tell you that I am not satisfied with myself, and I am not happy with you either. The question is, what did we do and did we do anything about it? If Neretva continues to be threatened, if Neretva continues to threaten this project and threatens, in general, all our water sources, threaten them with various threats, from pollution to, I don't know, the fact that we might lose water sources, e.g. in Slavonia? So, here is not a question of the Institute, we have a lot of institutions, agencies, institutions, law enforcement issues, and the question is, are those people who are in positions and are protecting national interests? Are you satisfied? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] With you and this government? [[Intruder: Dear Secretary of State.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47410	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I am extremely, as you are proud of those days when we have jointly accepted into public space and nominated this topic which is certainly one of our painful points, with, and above all, in terms of climate change and the consequences that climate change will leave. Neretva's salt is a very serious problem that we face through every job, a serious job that we do at the Water Economy Administration, and thus also in creating a programme of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan where we have also adopted part of the problem with certain solutions. However, in order to address this problem, a comprehensive action is needed, and what we are doing, we are also working with colleagues from energy and other ministries to create a solution that would somewhat mitigate the negative consequences that, above all, we agree, due to the action of the 1970s. Last century, which endangered Neretva and climate change [[Intruder: Thank you.]] are an additional parameter that will endanger her. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47411	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Pavić has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47412	Dear Secretary of State, the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament. Well, here's a geofisician and someone who's been listening to hydrology with Professor Jugaj and as someone who's been following the state of Croatian waters for 10 years and through the Slap Association, we've seen many initiatives, but we've also seen the deficit of a doctor of science in the field of hydrology and hydrotechnics. Today we know that 46% of the plan, the National Recovery and Resistance plan goes to the Green Plan. Over 30% of the multiannual financial framework will go to the Green Plan. A good part of this is water projects and as the former president of the Young Scientists' Association, I know how important it is to have an institution that will be able to articulate our interests and combine science. I know that the Institute will also be based on several EU projects, I congratulate you on that. If you can tell us a little bit more how you see this Institute's vision and on what projects it's already based on so far on these lunches, that it will be party entanglement [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Fully... [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47413	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47414	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. I know your work before your duties, and I know that in this area you have given a lot of your professional engagement, and I understand that this is the way you act and comment on the establishment of the Institute for Water in the Republic of Croatia. This period from 2019 to today has been preceded by more discussions with scientific institutions, above all with Croatian rectors. So, among other things, to the conclusion that in the system of science and education we have a large number of very high-quality scientific recruits, most of whom, after the use of scientific and monetary status, are left to themselves. We expect that in this institution, the Institute of Water, a large number of people, young doctors of science who want to deal with water, will find their place under the sun and realise their scientific and technical ambitions International cooperation is certainly one [[Intruder: Thank you.]] of the key work parameters of the future Institute. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47415	The next replica is the respected representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47416	Dear Secretary of State. We are passing this law because, in 2019, when we passed the Water Act, we were not able to, or your government was unable to transpose the EU directive into Croatian legislation properly. On the other hand, in your opening statement, you pointed out, or you referred to the 2008 Water Management Strategy. What falls into your eyes is the fact that you are clearly unable to identify the real needs or have any vision of quality water management. In fact, the waters from our citizens' perspective are what are available to them. We can view water rights as the possibility and availability of safe and delivery water. Local elections are at the door, we are aware that even in the capital of the Republic of Croatia, many of our citizens still do not have access to the water network, with pipes from the time of Austria-Hungarian, so we lose up to 40, if not more than one percent of the water in the sewer and for other inappropriate purposes [[Intruder: Thank you.]] What is your Ministry planning to do about it? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47417	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47418	Thank you very much, distinguished MPs for your question. As for the availability of water for human consumption in the Republic of Croatia, it is now at, the degree of accession is 87% of the Croatian population with the current possibility tomorrow, joining 93% of the population. Of course we are interested, and we want to achieve what you said, the availability of drinking water for all people in the Republic of Croatia, for all its inhabitants. What's the Ministry doing about it? Well, look, you could also see from communication on the MPO summary that one of the biggest allocations in that financial instrument that we're very welcome to be nominated for exactly what you're saying. It means increasing the degree of attachment to wastewater, increasing the level of treatment of waste water, and we are extremely happy with the high share of money achieved precisely for this specific purpose that you have said. I'd just like to say one more time if you've listened carefully, so these amendments and additions to the law are being passed by us, among other things, and to people who have lost their particle. conditionally stated because of the maneuvering of the water streams have a fair fee, this is also the aim of passing this law. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47419	The next replica is the respected representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47420	Did you call me? You were quiet, so I didn't hear. [[Intruder Reiner: yes.]] Thank you... Okay, thank you. [[When I speak loudly, someone says to yell, when you can't hear quietly, I don't know how to, go ahead.]] I have a question, so the amendments to the law are passed in order to finally fully comply with the directive, but again, I do not have full compliance with the directive in this proposal. Namely, when you have prescribed an exception when no environmental impact assessment or environmental assessment is required, when this is linked to floods, you have then re-estimated it as a general exception, and the directive clearly states that it must be assessed in an individual case. This means that for each individual case it should be determined that the assessment should not be carried out because it would be contrary to the purpose of what the procedure is doing, which is, for example, the resolution of the consequences of the flood. Therefore, we cannot make this a general exception because we are not in line with the directive itself again, nor with the decision of the European Court of Justice in that case which said that this provision should be interpreted restrictively.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47421	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47422	Thank you, well-respected MPs for your findings. So I'm just going to repeat that there is a retaining exception, but in terms of the situation where we have cases of protection and rescue of people, animals, material cultural goods and the environment in floods and the removal of the effects of floods in cases of haste and unsustainable implementation of flood defence measures. I believe you will agree with me when we looked at pictures of Gunja and the contribution from Gunja when it was a flood, unfortunately from Metkovic that in such a situation the only thing we can do and what we need to do is an absolutely fast action that is measured in minutes and not in days. So I think in communication with the European Commission, with relevant administrations that we are completely, it is my opinion that we have fully aligned this proposal with EU directives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47423	Thank you very much. Are the committee's reporters now going to take the floor? Yeah. The Honorable Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, Marijana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47424	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of HS. State Secretary, Director, Representatives and Representatives. The HS Agriculture Committee held its 23rd session on 27 April 2021. Proposal for a law amending the Water Act as a home working body. It was noted in the debate that in the last 11 years, river cleaning activities have not been carried out in the Republic of Croatia, so the floods of gravel, sand, wood and land are large in the riverbeds. The representatives pointed out that the corridors must be cleaned to ensure the absorption of the rainwaters in the riverbeds and to ensure that the waterways are maintained, but also to reduce economic losses. It has been pointed out that through the European directives, the riverbeds are being cleaned, so it is not clear why the Republic of Croatia did not articulate this issue with the European Commission. In further discussion, it was said that there is no limit for riverbed cleaning operations in order to increase the absorption capacity of precipitation waters with a view to preventing floods and maintenance of the waterway, but it is necessary to make environmental impact assessments. The question has been asked how many of these environmental impact assessment requirements there is, which is the average length of obtaining approval and whether this can be accelerated. The proposer's representative answered the questions that the exploitation of gravel and sand from our water streams is not prohibited and is the same if the exploitation of gravel, sand and application contributes to the maintenance of water through Croatian waters which form a four-year framework agreement with authorised companies on the extraction of gravel and sand. In addition to that exploitation, it shall also be carried out if it contributes to the maintenance of waterways on internal waters, and the Contracting Party shall be the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. In response to a request for the duration of the procedures, the applicant's representative replied that with the aim of cutting deadlines, four-year contracts were concluded, and the environmental impact assessment itself, i.e. three to four months, was significantly reduced time for the procedure. It was also pointed out that through the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, the ministry proposed projects to increase secondary swamp habitats, and this is about abandoned river sleeves that do not have a continuity with the main water flow in which clean-up works in the area of Drava and Sava will be carried out in the 27km of waterway. After the debate was held, the Committee decided to propose to HS the following conclusions: "The proposal for a law amending the Water Act, observations and proposals is adopted in the debate and is addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final proposal for the Law amending the Water Act." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47425	Thank you very much. Before the open debate, I would just like to point out that since you know that there will be no vote today that we will have a free speech, or the presentation of the position of clubs and independent representatives immediately after we have finished this point, and I say so for the sake of your notice, and that you inform your colleagues and colleagues that they do not think that it may be in one hour or in half an hour but whoever wants to say that they can come here and take advantage of that opportunity for free speech. And now we'd move on to the debate and the first on behalf of the Representatives' Club Mosta will speak to the esteemed representative Zvornir Troscott. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47426	Dear Vice-President HS, respected MPs and MPs and respected citizens of the Republic of Croatia who follow us through the screen. I'm very glad Mr. Pavic is here today for today's debate because he mentioned 10 years ago. History, but knowing that he will be at the debate today we have prepared well for this segment of the debate. So here we go before we go into debate, and we're going to put it back into one of our legislative history back in 2009. When Mr. Ivo Sanader finishes his stock as prime minister, he leaves the helm of Jadranki Kosor. Here's another detail we've prepared, so our colleague Branko Bacic was just a statesman at the Ministry of the Sea, but on his way to finally becoming a minister. And in 2009, The government is headed by Mrs. At the end of the year, Jadranka Kosor sends the Water Act to the vote, and the law provides for the establishment of a special scientific water institution, and HS passed the law and it entered into force on 1 January 2010. Here it is, it was the beginning of a legislative history that we would start with. But it stops being funny. It stops being funny because here we are today, 11 years old. After that law was sent to HS, we're discussing the institute again. So, you know absolutely everything about that institute. So, the institute even has its name “Bishop Josip Juraj Strossmayer. ” Well, here comes the ladies and gentlemen of the 11th. We named the Institute of Waters and will be called “The Bishop Josip Juraj Strossmayer”. And after the procedure for the establishment of this 11-year-old institute, I'm sure we can expect a lot and that's fine. We can therefore consider it here after the 11th year. The ability of all these governments was given this important, according to the professor, to an important institute called “Josip Juraj Strossmayer”. Honestly, I'm not really, I'm not sorry you didn't start it. Not because I have something against the ruling party, against the professor or so on. but in fact this is an indication that this institute, so that the scientific institute, as it was presented, would be only one additional bed, so where there would be a monopolized and legalised state racket, where people would be employed on a party line or, for example, from Croatian waters would be moved to this new institute, perhaps the secretary of state would actually become the director of that scientific institute and whatever someone in Croatia would like to do about the groundwaters and the groundwaters should receive a certificate. Of course it would, this would require new employment, and then it would be all over those fine fees that we get on state-level bills, so all new employment means the additional water prices we pay. So here we go, but it's on the side, gentlemen. Here's where we start another institute and you can't start it, not at all. Another state institution, that's still, that's the answer to everything, it's a modus operandi when there's an earthquake going on a new fund, when there's a tragedy in the social care system a new institution. Here it is, and now we have a new institute, so an additional increase in the state apparatus that will be financed by this National Recovery and Recovery Plan, where additional money will be pumped into the expansion of the state apparatus, and today we are already funding the affairs that will take place in a year. But we still have, today is actually... The 30.4. di documents are being submitted, maybe the government is still changing that. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Your Honor, you said you'd reduce the number of state bodies, agencies, and we're actually establishing new, new institutes with new directors, with new secretaries, with a new administration. So much for reform. So, this institute, which is founded on the 11th. It is nothing more than an economic extra spilling of costs on our citizens who today are already paying an expensive price for water. From an economic perspective it should be reduced to a local level, so HDZ's coalition partner, so Mr. Milan Bandic, along with his friends, is now going back to one history, 2007, 2. before this Water Act, he went along with his friends to London, raised one bond of EUR 300 million, which is some equivalent of 2 billion kuna, and the main, main intention of raising those bonds, and the bond is nothing but a loan, was to build a water supply network and a waste network in the City of Zagreb. I stress, coalition partner. So today we are in 2021, this bond is not paid, it was just transferred in 2017. to the second believer and this bond comes at the charge of 2023, so let the professor further explain it, so it will burden our citizens of the City of Zagreb with some 4 to 5,000 kuna per capita. So much for water. And when the professor or secretary of state speaks about 87% of water coverage and availability then let's say that explains it to the citizens of the City of Zagreb in Upper Dubrava, for example. Imagine you, Upper Dubrava 2021. Not everyone has a water connection. Or let's say let him explain it to one of the Councils when 87% of the citizens are already connected to, to water, let him explain to the Holy Ones how they don't have a water connection. And here we are not just in the east of Zagreb, here we will be so honest, so we will go west and ask how is it that New Zagreb, West City district has no water connection. Be careful, the capital of Croatia. In the 21st century, we don't have a water connection, we build institutes that will help us do some kind of scientific who knows what kind of research, probably only then will it be presented to the secretaries and therefore to the people who are employed at that institute because I don't think they can help anyone. So here we are, in 2021, in 2023. nor will we have a water supply net for which the bond is raised, we will have the Yosip Juraj Strossmayer Institute, which will reportedly explore that water, and the price of the communals will therefore grow more and more every day. Except for these proposed scientific institutes, which are thoroughly established on the 11th. it will be the most fundamental institute in the history of the academic community of Europe and the world. So, besides such things, so the proposed scientific institute that is nothing but public institutions now because people have seen that the effort and accreditation for the scientific institution needs to be invested, so it's only going to happen now to a public institution, this is going to happen because they're not able to start an 11-year-old scientific institution. So, apart from the debts taken from London, from Deutsche Bank, which was just for the water supply network, so the price of water is also defined by, for example, the exits of workers on the ground, so on our pipes that lose over 50% of the water, so when the secretary of state boasts with these institutes, with these lectures, that these compliances with EU directives should therefore be said that Zagreb in the 21st century therefore has more pipes from the Habsburg monarchy, literally. And that that pipe is lost or water in those pipes is lost as if it were Swiss cheese. And then, of course, it's going to spill back to the price of our citizens' utility paying for water more expensive than it pays for, say, Saudi Arabia that doesn't have water. That's the point. And these numbers of people going into the field and looking at these pipes, so it also affects the price of utility and citizens are looking at it all. Looking at 11 years of J.J. Strossmayer Institute, it's being built thoroughly. For more than 13 years, they have been watching bonds taken in London, which will be financed by no less than a water supply network, there is no more money than 2 billion kuna, no more water supply nets, and watch the exits on the field of workers who are supposed to fix these prices, and ultimately, it does not happen, but simply end of the month, where the price of water has risen multiplely since 2009 or 2007, and back here in 2021. The bottom line is that you can't even start this Water Institute, so there's no money in the city of Zagreb, so I don't know which 87% of the secretary of state is boasting, literally, here you go just on the ground, so when you see those eyes of those people who are tormented, when we're still in the cans of new water, it's like we're in the 17th century. In the capital of Croatia, people in the water cans carry home in certain parts of the city of Zagreb and we would set up institutes. We'd start the institute. And they wonder where your money is? Where's that 2 billion kuna? Why don't I have the right to that water? So while some will be employed by these institutes, while the secretaries, the administration, will increase, so all of this will be funded nicely by our citizens, they will all look on the sidelines and no one will ask them anything at the end of the day. But it is not only the problem of Zagreb, it is also the problem of Karlovac, it is the problem of Koprivnica, it is the problem of Dalmatia, so the problem of Croatia as a whole. I don't know which 87% the secretary of state boasts about. Thank you very much. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47427	The next Club of Representatives will be that green-left block and will speak to the respected representative Sandra Bencic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47428	Thank you. I'm going to start with one problem that we have and while we've been active in civil society, and that's the problem of illegal gravel, which we don't really have any stronger solutions for even this law. For years we have followed the situations of illegal gravel, for example on the Sava, which not only has a devastating effect on the environment because of the very activity of gravel that it has, but also because of the fact that it is excavated, they have very often been used for disposal and hazardous waste, therefore not harmless only but also dangerous waste. It's a kind of ecocid that we can't and can't allow anymore. Also, I would like to emphasise for all those who are actually calling here and want a much stronger liberalisation of the gravel system, that the study that was made within the Danuba Sediment Interreg project, has made it clear that all Croatian large rivers that are suitable for digging gravel and sand, such as Danube, Drava, Sava but also Una and Kupa, including Neretva, have a significant lack of tow application and because of some of them, due to a series of hydrocenters built. The study also showed that their hydromorphological status is getting worse and that they are exposed to systemic soil erosion, decreased water levels and degradation of ecological characteristics. When it happens in rivers, it is also poured over into the surrounding eco system. And the question is whether we want to go again in a direction that will allow for such types of environmental degradation or go in another direction that will allow protection and I must say that those arguments that are very often used, which are economic arguments, should be seen not in the short term but in the long term, which are economic consequences on agriculture and on other branches, the long-term consequences of river devastation and riverbeds. So we're thinking about how much minus our future generations will have, not only future generations but also future generations, if we're looking at only a one-time and short-term economic benefit from gravel. I want to draw attention to what I've already asked here is that if we want to comply with the directive, let's do it all the way and how we need to do it so we don't have to change again when we get a negative assessment of compliance with the directive. If we were to comply fully with the directive, then we should have made it clear that these exceptions concerning unforeseen situations such as floods and when it comes to the resolution of the consequences of floods that it is not necessary to conduct an environmental impact study or to assess the impact on the ecological network that this cannot be prescribed as a general exception but can be prescribed as a possibility that in a case-by-case case if such a study is shown to be contrary to the very purpose of the procedure to be done, and that is the resolution of the consequences, then in that case it should not be applied. Therefore, it is the principle that several assumptions must be met, so these assumptions are that each individual case needs to be assessed. This means that the law prescribes that it is possible in an individual case to decide, so make a decision of the governing body that no environmental impact study or environmental impact assessment is conducted for the reason that it is assessed, that and that. But it's not a general provision, but it's a condition or assumption that it's not done in an individual case. Therefore, we need to assess each individual case and determine for each individual case whether the implementation of this procedure would have a negative impact on the very purpose which is trying to respond through the procedure. In particular, when the European Court of Justice interpreted this Directive, or precisely these exceptions, which are prescribed by the Directive, it indicated in the case of Bolzano that these exemptions introduce an exception to the general rule established by the directive that the effects should be assessed in advance, therefore always in advance and that they must be interpreted restrictively, so we are interpreted restrictively. It also means that as it says in the directive, we evaluate each individual case. So, there's a big difference whether or not we have a provision that can always do it in these cases, and that's from a provision in which we say that if you and these conditions are met, you and the administrative body can make a decision that there will not be an environmental impact assessment in that individual case. And I would really appeal for it to be prescribed in this way because look when we have a general exception that allows for each flood, we have any flood, so we won't be able to control and we don't have a graduation and we don't have an individual assessment just in case, I already see how different malversions can occur, but what we all have already had enough experience to know how such exceptions and provisions are used very often to actually diversify and bypass the rule. We will, of course, make amendments. But there's something else I want to say, and it's about the water institute. We are not, of course, against the fact that there is a scientific institution dealing with the scientific activities of water protection and research in this area, however. We believe that because of all the environmental risks we have and because of the absolute importance of water protection in Croatia, because that is what I recently said, the key resource we have and that we have to save for future generations, we can agree on. What I don't understand is why it gave up being a scientific institute, and the argument of why it gave up being a scientific institute is because it has very large and high criteria that should be met. Well, if you're starting from the beginning that's the problem, but why are we starting from the beginning, why are we starting from the beginning? Why does the ministry have to be the founder? Why if we wanted a scientific institute and used existing scientific capacities? We said, okay, we're going into a project together with Ruđer Boskovic and with the Chemical Department, for example, the PMF to set up a separate water institute that will use existing resources, which includes equipment so that we can carry out these scientific research that we need, and then it wouldn't be a problem to meet all those scientific criteria because they already exist with these institutions. And if I wasn't talking, and that's something I mean, that's what I really think, and in professional work, it's always really bothered me, so we don't use science infrastructure enough in a way that we share it, but everyone has their own homes, every institution has its own, and now they think it's his equipment. And now we're going to refurbishing the water institute, and the PMF Chemical Department is two years ago, i.e. For a year, he got 10 million euros worth of equipment from eu funds, he's got great scientists who can do the mass of research we need. Also on Ruger, we also have equipment, we have scientists who do this, and we don't know how to tie it up, join it into an institution that will provide us with those services in the public sector that we need and all the good. They have a place to do scientific work, we have equipment, we get funds for it, and we meet public goals. But no, let's set up a private public institution ab initio, so all from the beginning and then re-procur everything That doesn't make sense to me. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47429	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs will be the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Marina Opačak Bilic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47430	Thank you. The Honorable Vice President of HS, state secretary with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. Of course, when it comes to changing the laws on natural resources as they lead, we always approach the same with special attention. What is important in this case is that if we seriously approach the water management plan is actually to find a compromise. On the one hand, protection of the environment and nature and, on the other hand, protection against the elemental flood disaster. The proposed amendments in Article 110 are required when accessing waterway maintenance to prevent floods, a study on environmental impact is required. And the proposal itself is not controversial, but in a modern state, such an approach is actually only acceptable. Among other things, it is also a compliance with EU legislation and should be noted that the change occurs only after the letter of formal notice of the European Commission. In translation only after the notice that these provisions were not adopted when amending this law in 2019. Now, given that we live in the Republic of Croatia and that law enforcement affects all citizens of the Republic of Croatia should be said what is controversial. And this is that the Republic of Croatia does not access any serious or organised water management plan, especially inland waters and flood defence itself. Why am I saying that? Because knowing that they are making studies as well as any other administrative business in the Republic of Croatia does not go very quickly and equally knowing that we are obliged to comply with EU legislation, we of the SDP Club want to stress that we are looking primarily for better preparedness in the approach to the management of this facility because Croatia has absolutely no, and in particular there is no long-term strategy for access to water maintenance, waterways on rivers and protection from floods. Let's start from the beginning, that the Republic of Croatia has no management plan for this resolution saying that in 2008, we passed a law that first completely banned access to the regulation of the troughs and whose consequences, apart from the losses in this economic sector, were I dare say, and the disaster in Gunja in 2014. Then, a year and a half ago, by amending the Water Act, we finally corrected such a law that was in force 11 years ago with the fact that we did not install all the necessary items in 2019 to comply with EU directives. And now as a result of the punishment or as it says in the proposal, to encourage by letter we are making changes. What's important is to point out, first of all, that it's obvious that there's really nothing we can do right and then when we have to. And it's the first and multi-procedural grudge from the SDP Club. The second question is whether we as a state are ready for the consequences of the amendment in Article 110, I would say that we are not because looking at our relationship with this subject so far and looking at our urgency, we see that the plan is gone. And when I say the consequences of the changes, then I mean that in the event of the implementation of the flood prevention measures, we also encounter an environmental impact assessment. by making an assessment of the acceptability for an ecological network whose production in Croatia at best takes time not in months, but in years. Therefore, it is not a disputed harmonisation and it is not a disputed obligation to make a study, it is a questionable and inconclusive approach to the entire system. Of course, there is a need to clean up the riverbeds. We have examples of organised countries like Austria that, for example, have been tracking and maintaining the whole system for years, solving critical shares, on-calling, moving materials, raising embankments, and they are the same as we are EU Member States, and they have the obligation to make studies, but the difference is that they do everything planically while we, here it turns out, we really don't know what we want. At first, we for one decade banned the cleaning of the troughs while neighboring countries were doing it uninterruptedly and earning money on us. For a decade we've been driving over average prices material for the needs of the construction sector, and then unprepared for cleaning the trough. And I wonder if we couldn't have these, in those 10 years it's already 13 worked out and prepared all the steps. We knew in advance what provisions we were going to meet, but no, obviously we didn't, but here we are now encountering additional processes like just making a study that, as long as it's been done in two or three years, we're going to have a period of not maintaining waterways and maybe another disaster like Gunja by then. So obviously there is neither continuity nor clear guidelines. If we're unprepared, I'll explain it in a few examples. So, just yesterday on a local Slavonian portal, we had the opportunity to read an optimistic title that says, river cruise is a new tourist product in the Brod-Posavina County, but if you read further in the text, it says that it is working to create a prerequisite for solving the critical section of the Sava River waterway on the route of Jaruga – Novi Grad. Now, the recording of that part of the Sava as a priority for such airworthiness was made in 2019 and most importantly, it was precisely 2019 that an environmental study was started for this venture, whether or not it was yet completed. We warn that, and that's what we're going to meet because nature doesn't ask, nature does its own work, sand-based applications exist, and if we act with this approach to preventing floods, I'm afraid it's not good for us. Therefore, once again, there is no problem with the existence of a study obligation, the problem is to adapt the same i.e. for how long we can, with the obligation to make the study, start to edit the trough and plan to manage the application. I believe that every law should be approached in accordance with the needs and changes in society, as well as in accordance with the time and space in which we live, and Croatia is literally surrounded by rivers that are currently related to their maintenance of the risk to a large number of inhabitants at risk of flooding. And now, additionally waiting for studies, that risk is actually going to be even bigger. Furthermore, as regards the amendment of Article 212 which deletes the provisions that the Institute is a scientific institution, we know that the idea itself, above all, of the establishment of the Institute, has been controversial, and now we have proposed amendments to which the institution is singled out in an independent organisation which we hold to exist, that it itself becomes even more vulnerable to various individual interests because it is made clear from the text that the Institute will have its own financial plan, of course created from budgetary money or water compensation and what is not clear is whether the basis of the provisions will increase compensation or will be taken away from the current budget of the Croatian Waters, and if so, how much? Here comes the time. To sum up, what we expect is ultimately better preparedness and a more serious plan approach to edit the troughs of our rivers, which must not only be maintained by fire-fighting measures but also systematically and planfully edit the continuous work that will ultimately lead to us using all the benefits of river transport, which is actually more efficient and cheaper and ultimately more environmentally-friendly than everyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47431	The next debate is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47432	Thank you very much, Vice-President HS, the Honorable Secretary of State, that is, co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us today is the Proposal for a Law amending the Water Act, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia referred to in HS. The basic issue to be addressed by this proposal for a law is to comply with EU directives on the implementation of an appropriate environmental impact assessment or assessment of the acceptability of environmental network procedures when approving procedures that contribute to the maintenance of water or waterways on internal waters. As a member of the EU, the Republic of Croatia respects the directives transposed into its legislation, thus not all EU directives and, in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Water Act, have been approved by procedures without carrying out an appropriate environmental impact assessment or an assessment of acceptability to the ecological network. Given that in its letter of formal notice, the European Commission has assessed that the Water Law introduces the possibility of exempting appropriate environmental impact assessments and the ecological network for riverbed cleaning cases in order to increase the capacity for the absorption of rainwater in the follow-up to flood prevention and maintenance of their waterway, which is not in line with the EU Environmental Impact Assessment Directive, the Habitats Directive and the Water Framework Directive, the Republic of Croatia has undertaken to amend the contested provision in its reply to the European Commission. 11th century 2. Water law. The same thing is done. 1st of this proposal of the law, thus clearly ensuring compliance with EU directives and removing the consequences of possible court proceedings for infringement of EU law. It is important to note that the Water Act continues to retain the exception of the mandatory implementation of an environmental impact assessment or an assessment of the eligibility for the ecological network in cases of protection and rescue of human, animal, material and cultural goods and the environment in floods, as well as the removal of the consequences of floods in cases of an urgent and unsustainable implementation of flood defence measures, in accordance with the Nature Protection Act and the Environmental Protection Act and those EU directives. Next up, Art. 212. The Water Law, which determines the establishment of the Water Institute, is also provided for in the 2008 Water Management Strategy. which has been adopted by HS, and whose ability to establish a water law in continuity for the last 10 years, we consider it necessary to amend the proposed way in order to adequately adapt the organisational form of the Institute of Water to its mixed subject-matter as public institutions and in accordance with the Law on Institutions, and to ensure direct control of the RES as extended hands of the founders of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the most important issues of importance for the work of institutions governed by the Statute, the Financial Plan and the Labour Regulation. Furthermore, since water does not know the limits, it does not even know the property of land. We're witnessing a common... water streams which, during a certain period of time, submerged private parcels which are in that case ex-urea, become public water well. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] With that in relation to Art. 236. The Water Act governing the right of all land-licensed owners to compensation for the market value of real estate which, under the force of the Water Act, became a public water well-being, had to be amended in order to make it fully applicable since it contained incorrect references. In this way, the right of the private owner to a market value compensation is fully guaranteed in accordance with the general rules of property law and art. The 50th century. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia shall, in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, restrict or withdraw ownership or in cases of declaration of private particles by public water. The proposal for a law also corrected the wrong call in Art. 141st century 2nd point. 3. The Water Act has been implemented in a consistent horizontal synchronisation throughout the basic text of the Water Act with the Law on the System of State Administration and related to the replacement of the term ‘Central Authority of State Administration’ with the term ‘Body of State Administration’. Following all of the above, the HDZ Representatives Club will accept this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47433	Following individual debates, the first registered representative, Marijana Petir, was first reported.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47434	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ma'am. Directors, MPs and representatives. With these amendments to the law, we are in line with EU requirements to faithfully transpose EU directives into our legislation, and so far there has been a mention of the history of how it used to look and how the laws have changed, so perhaps I would, however, correct some of the facts that have been made here. Since the Law on Waters, which was adopted in 2009, had in fact had a fundamental intensity that the eradicated practice of illegal extraction of gravel and sand from the river, which occurred, of course without paying concessions of mining fees and taxes which were paid outside the riverbed, the reason for the changes in the law was in fact followed by the fact that there was a reduction in the riverbed, the average reduction of water supply and groundwater in the surrounding agricultural land, on the waterfronts, which are problems that will not go away on rivers whose flow of alpine gravel and sand blocked dams of upstream hydropower plants. In addition, there were then attempts by several politicians, several different political parties, through this law, which we managed to prevent Croatia's water from turning into a commercial society, and if those from a public company would become a company, then we would have to trade with what they are responsible for, which is water, so that we managed to prevent such an activity and in some way save our most valuable resource, which is our water. To save him, of course, from potential privatisation. The situation is such that our rivers are at a deep stage of pushing river sediment towards their mouths, and the flow of sediment on the entrances to Croatia has long been gone. As a result, downstream valves are created which may pose a problem when the flood occurs, and since 2013 exploitation is allowed if the concessionary meets the conditions that apply to all other investors in the Republic of Croatia. This involves making an environmental impact study, which in practice appears to be a certain obstacle, and we also had this debate on the Committee on Agriculture where we received the Ministry's reply that these procedures were significantly shortened, but there is obviously a certain problem in practice. Of course, all this stuff that I'm talking about doesn't interest our neighbors, not a bit, and they've gone on selling both gravel and sand from the rivers that we share together. In this sense, I find it important to take advantage of the position that Croatia as a Member State also has for neighbours who are not Member States because there are certain instruments, but also for countries that are Member States. I think it is very important to actually try to reach an interstate agreement with neighbouring countries on sustainable management of common rivers and to stop some of these Member States from retaining common resources exclusively on their side of the border. Also, we have not only this kind of problem because we are witnessing that, with our border, often zero energy facilities and hydropower plants and thermal power plants where international environmental protection contracts are not respected, and I know that there is sometimes a need for superhuman efforts to achieve communication because there are non-functional systems in some countries, management systems, but there is a need to persist because Croatia is constantly damaged. Also, I think it is important that through all these funds that we have already provided through the EU funds, a special emphasis is placed on funding for precise water, quality and quantity of groundwater, geodetic recording of riverbeds, monitoring, flora and fauna for the purpose of developing environmental impact studies for the exploitation or deployment of river applications. That this issue has long been discussed, not only when it comes to changes to the Water Act, but also the fact that several parliamentary committees held the thematic session in 2018, and because of the consequences of the floods in Croatia, concluded that a compromise between the competent authorities should be reached in order to ensure full access to this problem. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47435	We have two replicas. The first is the distinguished representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47436	Thank you very much, esteemed MPs, dear Vice President of the Parliament. I think you've summed up the issue and the extraction of gravel very nicely, but also, water flow management issues among states. That's where I would point out the example of Sava. So, Sava passes, the Sava plum and the Sava Commission is in Zagreb through a series of states because Slovenia has built dozens of hydropower plants, the Sava River trough has fallen by 3 m in the last 30 years. What we have on the one hand, yes, great losses in the distribution network, but there is a great danger that the city of Zagreb will be completely waterless in 2050, because, together with the fall of the troughs, the groundwaters will fall. That's exactly what the Zagreb project on the Sava should raise the water level, but what's the key is to arrange for interstate cooperation on the protection of these rivers and I think it's precisely your exposure that you said is going in that direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47437	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47438	Thank you very much, Agent Pavić. Well, that's exactly what I called for, because I think it's very important that we continue to develop good neighbourly relations, but we have to protect our interests very much. For me, dialogue has no alternative and we have to get up on this, but you yourself have said the consequences of our neighbours' current approach is causing, for example, the Sava River itself, and what kind of repercussion it can have in the future for the city of Zagreb's water supply. Of course I'm not one to say we use mechanisms, I don't know the European Court's verdict on material or financial compensation. I have called here to reach an agreement because it is not the only open question that we have in that segment, but I think a concrete agreement can be reached through one conversation on both sides' well-being.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47439	The next replica, distinguished representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47440	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Petir, means the absolute ban that was issued in 2009. It caused huge damage to our waterways, and it was immaterial. It was not necessary because the Slovenian law clearly allowed the cleaning of floods in their riverbeds, and in their Drava it can be done until it can be done in ours. 28 entrepreneurs with all their entrepreneurs were destroyed, without ships, without houses, the banks seized them all. And in the meantime, in ten years, we have imported gravel from neighbouring countries of Hungary, Serbia and Republika Srpska worth 5 billion kuna for our roads, highways, agglomerations and for everything we build. It's a Croatian horror for me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47441	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47442	Thank you very much, colleague Djakic. I fully understand your appeal to apply when it comes to cleaning up riverbeds in order to ensure their flow and airworthiness and to respond in time to prevent terrible floods and to achieve one balance in the exploitation of common rivers in some balance. But the fact is that illegal phenomena took place, illegal segregation for many years, that while those who paid the bill neatly, all the taxes and taxes on one side were faced and wanted to be correct and in accordance with the law, we had those who violated the law, so that we can say that then the entrepreneurs who paid all the obligations to the state were then to harm them. I'm up for it to be achieved. compromise, to reach a compromise and to achieve balanced management of our rivers. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47443	The next individual debate is a distinguished representative called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47444	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, So I have to admit when I go out for this pay phone, then every time I ask myself why I want to talk about something or what I'm going to do with that speech that I'm going to say here. And here I'm going to start with something every time you read the law that HDZ is proposing then you need to ask yourself why he proposed it or why he didn't propose it at the time he needed it. Let's say this law was to be amended again in 2019 when the European Commission warned us about something that we knew ourselves when we first passed this law that it was wrong and it was wrong. So we waited two years to correct what we were supposed to do and make it right in the first law-making process. Now, that means that I'm becoming more and more clear about that sentence from the former system, read between the lines. Well, by reading between the lines, ask yourself what the interest of HDZ was in 2019 when this law was passed, which is when someone wanted to achieve by not conducting an environmental impact study or the impact of gravel on rivers and coastal areas. Mr. Pavić said one thing here, I must confess to all citizens an illogical sentence, that the trough of the Sava River in the City of Zagreb fell three metres. Take a walk along the Sava coast, I don't know where you saw those three meters that fell, I pass there every few days, and it's not three meters lower than when I was a kid. So there's obviously something that you want to prove to something that's not true, but knowing you a hundred times telling the truth becomes true. And what's the interest today? Today is the interest of what is being done to push through the water institute. Why push through the water institute when the work that should be done by the Croatian Waters Institute, when that scientific part you want to push through that institute and you start to end. And your colleague explained very simply here give money to the scientific institutions to build an interdisciplinary institute, an institution or something, and I am absolutely certain that with 30% of the resources that this will spend here to give to today's existing institutions in the Republic of Croatia that deal with water would contribute to water protection would be significantly greater. And how much of your concern about water, my colleague Troscott said something about losing 40% in the City of Zagreb in the water system, but I will mention one more thing in the City of Zagreb, it is a water purifier and a third degree purification. The third degree of treatment of wastewater where it is not water care only to bring drinking water to the inhabitants but also to take the sewers away so that you do not poison the environment. That third degree of purification was given by this government in agreement with Milan Bandic then to a private concessionary, which should cost the citizens of the City of Zagreb 60m and some million euros. And the first assessment was, like, 20 million people on the wire when it started, and then all of a sudden, the talks between the city's administration and the ministry started. Now that issue of access to water, I said in the City of Zagreb 40% of water is lost, and the drain is not much more citizens. A colleague here spoke about Gornji Dubrava and Sesvetama, I will mention Novi Zagreb east, Novi Zagreb west and Brezovica. And you know it, and you didn't do anything about it, time's up, and we have so much to say. Maybe when my colleague Pavic replicates.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47445	We have a replica, the esteemed representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47446	Dear colleague, dear Vice President, I'm sorry you're going down like this and calling me ignorant. I personally worked for 8 years for a regular annual conference on the Sava River along with the Sava Commission in Zagreb, in the Ministry of Transport, we had the biggest experts from all areas of Sava River Management, we brought here to Zagreb from all countries of the Sava River Basin. And I do not claim that as Marko Pavić, these hard studies, they were the basis that the Sava River trough fell by 3 meters in the last 30 years which were the foundation of the Zagreb project on Sava. The level of Jauna falls, the level of Bundeca falls, that you look at it or you don't see it doesn't mean that science didn't prove it. I'm sorry that you're going back 8 years of study of Croatian Waters, colleges and all the experts, and I'm going to give you all the bases, all the scientific studies and presentation conferences to make sure that you make sure that the real save root has fallen even though you may not see it personally.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47447	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47448	My dear colleague Pavić, I'm like a kid rowing on that Sava, and then I was going down, and I saw how much lower that cord is than that induction belt on the side. And today I walk there, and it's three feet down, because then those stairs wouldn't still come to the water as they come today. So what you're saying is the same thing, you're trying to prove something to do after that. And that seems to you the way a woman caught her husband at home with a mistress, and he says to the woman whether you believe me or your eyes. Here, thank you very much. If you have that information, I'd really like to see them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47449	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47450	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues, it is my pleasure to make a contribution to the Water Act, a law that I have also followed for the last 10 years very actively, and here we have changes to 3 components. One thing about gravel and compliance with the recommendations of the European Commission, another component that is the issue of strengthening the Institute of Water and the third component that may have been discussed today, which is the right to compensate people who benefit from various projects to receive a fair fee. I would like to dedicate this speech to the late engineer Blažević, who I worked with at the Slap Association for 10 years, recently abandoned us but it was a great motor force on many projects, we visited all of Croatia, for 8 years we worked at the Zagreb Conference on the Sava and followed the project, we were in Neretva, we were in Požega when we advocated the Kamerska dam, we were in my Ričica when we talked about the Imotic waters, on the island of Vis, Istrian water conferences, so we were all over Croatia. And here I am perhaps, there I have certainly seen and, say, Mr. Grmoy, but Mr. Troscott, who may be now with the candidacy hastily concerned I haven't seen, and that's indeed true fellow Brumnic, so scientific data proves it to you. Korito Sava has dropped 3 metres in the last 30 years for a weaker flow of gravel, for the reconstruction of hydropower plants in Slovenia. This also creates a problem for the extraction of drinking water in Zagreb because it also reduces the levels of groundwater and pumps that are in Mlaka and which are soon to be left or during which a few decades, the water level will fall below the level that we have installed pumps. So this eradication and harmonisation with Article 110(2) is, in my opinion, a very good compromise and congratulations to the ministry that they also kept the exception of the flood as we had in Gunja, protecting and saving people, but that all other projects would have to pass an environmental impact study where it should be pointed out that in Croatia there are already existing contracts with 2.27 million cubic metres. The second component of the law is the Water Institute and I am sorry that there is no colleague Bencic, I personally come from the PMF and I have always advocated scientific projects. First, it should be said that the status of a scientific institution will take place within the prescribed time limit after it is established that it currently does not have the capacity. Personally as a geophysician who I've been listening to hydrology at Professor Jugay's and I've made all these conferences I know how hard it was to collect hydrologists in all places. Also, it is not said anywhere that the projects carried out by the PMF, that there will be no complementary Institute of Water and the Institute of Water will be integratedly looking at water integrity, not only water chemistry, water biology but also hydrotechnology, hydrology, hydrogeology and we know that practically the largest part of European funds are currently going to water protection. And one of the projects that will be integrated into the Water Institute is Global Makes where exactly the PMF and the Faculty of Chemical Engineering and Technology are partners. Therefore, labels that this will be party entanglement, on the contrary, should lead to a quality institution that looks integratedly at water and to replicate a colleague of the Trocost which is not there, he is now concerned about water losses, the Sava River trough falls 3 m, and the Institute should now deal with such broader issues, working with, of course, all scientific institutions, from the Faculty of Mining and Oil, the PMF, Ruđer Boskovic and all others. So congratulations State Secretary on that, I know how much you are in Varazda's expert and the same as you work on water protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47451	We've got a few replicas, and it's Mariana Petir's first distinguished representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47452	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Pavić, we are now in line with the European directives, but so in the area of water there is still some additional harmonisations, especially when it comes to the drinking water directive where we are going to have a period of 2 years, and that Croatia is actually very good at the very top of Europe and by the quality and by the quantities of renewable drinking water, but the fact is that we still do not have the availability of drinking water for all of our residents and I personally and have submitted some initiatives when it comes to certain petrinian villages, villages in the May swimming pool around the Gline towards the Ministry and Croatian waters that this is taken into account through future projects and here thanks to the support shown to these initiatives because I think it is really crucial that in the 21st century we provide drinking water for every resident, especially in rural areas, if I want to keep these people there.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47453	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47454	Thank you very much. Well esteemed colleagues Petir, you are absolutely right, Croatia is among the richest countries and by quality and by quantity and by water purity and we need to preserve it. Rare cities, I've lived around Europe, rare cities have drinking water, and what we have to provide, the availability of drinking water to all our citizens. From the projects in Banovina where I believe that even now with the revitalisation programmes and many agglomerations that are planned and entered the National Recovery Programme, they will be completed, to the projects on the islands, here somewhere it may not be economically cost-effective to bring water but we need to find ways, we have a situation to say hydropower plants in Dubrovnik, the sea throws out a large amount of sweet water that dilutes the sea, and we could use this water with, say, a water supply to the islands. So you're absolutely right and thank you for your comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47455	The next replica, the esteemed representative of Rada Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47456	... 212 you can see exactly what was said here in part, that an institution with a mixed subject of business, so with a professional – operational and with a scientific but as you presented that we would create an institute and then will be filled with content, then some other institutions will participate, it is a bit unusual compared to how it is normally done with the institutes. [[Specially enabled.]] However, he cares about something else, so it says here that the Republic of Croatia is the founder but it says that the Institute will be financed from Croatian Waters. What's interesting, how do you plan to avoid conflict of interest then this scientific work that, and we know how Croatian leaders can do business, how do you intend to maintain the independence of one of these scientific works? And as colleagues here have spoken, so we have institutes that could do scientific work if you needed something mixed in the professional-operational work?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47457	Thank you very much, colleague Boric. So exactly the largest amount of EU funds from this and from the future perspective is going towards water conservation. Croatia, given its wealth and everything really has to protect the water and the formation of such an institution that will take an integrated view of water and be the support of Croatian waters in the project with all scientific research, I really don't know what your problem is. Scientific independence, you yourself know as well, you publish scientific articles, it is ensured through... review, is ensured through scientific production, project reviews and all of this. I don't know, I mean, I'm a geofismist, I've listened to hydrology, you haven't, you're some other professions, so it shocks me so much that you're looking at something this negative that the European Commission is looking at positively and commending exactly the ministry to go that way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47458	The next replica, the esteemed representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47459	Dear counterpart Pavić, there is no other representative in the Croatian Parliament who is so insulting and disdainful of other MPs. I'm a geophysicist, you're not. I was at the conference, you weren't. I know, you don't know. In other words, that amount, and I'm going to say unfounded claims, almost doesn't look like one of the MPs. And I'll tell you something else. When you spoke of objections to party entanglement and staffing by institutions and so on and the one mentioned in this law, we can very easily resolve it. Put all the expensive party cards on the table as many of you as there are under these institutions and we will then level your competences and your results and let us then ask that a provision be introduced into the law that will allow damages to the state budget for all that the incompetent politically appointed administration has done.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47460	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47461	Well, I'm sorry, colleague Oreshkovic, that you insult me like this. If you've been following me on what topics I'm covering, I'm covering the ones I'm expert on. You answer everything and you're an expert on everything, and the citizens have said it. Hidrology and Geophysics is a profession and I am proud of it, and I am proud that I have also achieved a certain contribution to science in this. Unfortunately, what I see you personally report to all the issues, in very little of it you are professional, which is ultimately evaluated and rated by the citizens themselves in the elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47462	The next replica is a respected representative called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47463	Dear colleague Pavić, let's agree on one thing first. I absolutely support anyone who believes that the problem of groundwater in the City of Zagreb is a problem and that it should be solved or that these groundwaters should be protected. So that's what we agree on. What don't we agree on? We do not agree that there are, today we have Croatian waters doing a certain job, and someone decides to set up an institute that will do practically the same job or will do it either parallelly or Croatian water part of the work for which they are no longer working, which will be financed by Croatian citizens through the budget or water compensation, as it says in your proposal. I personally think that those things that work today should be kept working. As far as the scientific contribution to water protection is concerned, I think another way to spend 30% of these resources given to existing institutions to put together and contribute to water protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47464	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47465	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, here I will deliver to you all the conclusions of these conferences and materials to make sure you really do, and my goal is to raise the level of debate in order to listen to what the profession says and on this basis we bring. I also personally became convinced of the lack of doctoral science in the field of hydrology and hydrotechnology and also the lack of an institution that is completely looking at problems. One such institute will contribute to further development of projects and is supported by the European Commission as a centre of excellence. At the amount of European money, the billions we give for agglomerations, this will be a really small investment with great profits for Croatian science and for the water sector and preservation of Croatian waters, so I invite you once again to consider and support this project.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47466	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47467	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, the Director, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, the Water Act has seen a lot of changes since 2009, 2013, '14, 2019 and now again. 10 years. or 11 years old. The fight is with one article only, Art. 110. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The 110th explicitly said “the exploitation And what did that bring? It led to huge floods in our rivers, in the waterways of our rivers, in not cleaning our rivers, in the wateriness that is not possible and in the rise of a trough from half a meter to 2.5 m. About springs, islands, not to speak. All these are the tasks that they had in the past and the Waterway Agency and the Waterway Agency and, unfortunately, no results have come from that. There are results in that recorded corridor of our rivers where there is a clear picture on certain kilometers where the trough is real, and what are the floods on them. So even now that we've lifted the ban in the first article. In 110, and when we have enabled at least in some cases, let us continue to argue with the European Commission because we get a reminder after the law is passed, but we see a clear picture of what is actually happening when the law is in the government of the Republic of Croatia, then associations again, the same ones that wrote to the European Commission, open on portals and start bombing with the same goal, to ban the exploitation of gravel and sand. This is a slightly improved version that can also not be satisfied because we are aware that environmental impact studies or evaluation certificates or what they are already called, lasts too long or are impossible to acquire, and if they do, then there are certain bans in them, and we are afraid of it today that it will be the same again. The concessions that have been issued have not been carried out in either il or can't be done, so the Drava River, I won't go to Sava because I'm not at home, but I'll say in Drava, it'll never be more waterway to Botov, to Koprivnica, as it used to be if we leave the items open like this. This is the first reading, and I would just point out that I don't read everything that was possible in the past was that the riverbed cleaning operation to increase the absorption capacity of the coastal waters in the further sequence of flood prevention and maintenance of their waterway was clearly defined by what we are preventing. We're preventing the flood and I just want to explain to you that when you clear the trough to its actual depth, you've done no harm, you've entered some kind of excavation that would be contrary to the legal rules, so the floods are gravel, sand, soil and wood and have to be removed, they have to be removed, whether by Croatian waters, whether by concessionaries, whether by renting the water goods, whether by any form it says in the Slovenian law that I've given according to professional services and by them it's possible, as in Austrian law. Only the commission is sending us a warning and we don't know the likely answer to it or we don't want it or we want what's called a waterway and flood prevention and stop it and stop it. Although in the EU directive it is clearly spoken in Article. 32. Exclusions from requests to prevent further deterioration or to achieve good water status are possible under special conditions if the failure is due to unforeseen or exceptional circumstances, in particular floods and droughts or for reasons of prevailing social interest. You know how much social interest there is in the Medvednica when it comes to quarrys? The state interest is primarily on the Sava River and on the Drava River for me is the social interest to be watery and to have an absorption of the coastal waters in order to avoid floods. Here I think I'll personally try to intervene in that article. 110. By cleaning up floods of gravel, sand, soil, wood [[Santer Invader: Time.]] in our roots of the river. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47468	We have two replicas, wait. The first is a respected representative of Dalia Oreskovic. Stay, Mr. Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47469	Your Honor. I almost came to ask you not to talk about state and public interest because there is no state or public interest that HDZ has not defiled. And when you talk about cleaning rivers and waterways, I think the most important thing is to clean Croatia from HDZ. But one thing you did well in your presentation, you mentioned the state bodies of the various agencies that were not responsible for maintaining and cleaning during the pre-authorization period. I ask a question, and why? Well, it's very likely because there your party click set up its own people who weren't doing jobs for which taxpayers were paid. And then you accused the associations of doing something almost dishonest because they pointed out all the irregularities in the law and its implementation. I think it was incorrect and we can only thank the activists who actually protected that public interest that eto HDZ didn't and the EU and its directives are not controversial, so that there is no confusion. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47470	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47471	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Oreshkovic, that cleaning is a good thing and clothes and hands and all that we have to do today. The political cleansing of the people is working, not you. You will be equally likely to be valued by the people or you will be rewarded, or you will be cleansed as our riverbed and it is the people who judge politicians or reward them with a mandate, two, five or ten, giving them confidence or not. It's the political cleanup you're talking about, I hope you'll be cleared.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47472	The next replica is the esteemed representative Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47473	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Djakic, you have repeatedly expressed concern that in one unsustainable way, the common rivers are managed because on the one hand, according to your opinion, Croatia does not have enough space for intervention to bring the river's trough into a state of airworthiness and cleaning, and on the other hand, our neighbours are exploiting if we can say so in our part of the river. In this respect, you also spoke about European directives that point to the importance of cleaning up riverbeds and you also expressed your view on the Agriculture Committee that you think there is room for further articulation and discussion with the European Commission in order to apply the articles in this regard in our legislation. Can you explain in more detail what this is about?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47474	It means in Directive 2000/60 in Art. 33. It clearly states, the goal of achieving good water status should be pursued in every river basin. If in our cleaning of our first, second and third lines there is no need for study or opinion or any other additional documents that talk about the environment, I don't know what we're talking about in our rivers. It is equally described and we can apply it on our rivers. I don't know why we're arguing and why we didn't give extra effort to clearly define in response the Slovenian law and Austrian law that are our neighbouring countries, which are on the river Drava and on the river Sava that can do it, and we can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47475	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47476	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Every time we have a regulation or a revision of a certain regulation, then we always have to look at ourselves, not form, but essence, which is the meaning of the law, which is the purpose of that law, so what we want to achieve. In this particular case, it is about amendments and additions, above all, because football would be said, we have received the EU's yellow card relating to compliance with a certain legal directive. Now, in my opinion, personally and always and constantly speaking, we have translated the word directive. Europe here is talking about guidelines that must be incorporated into domestic legislation, but it is about guidance. Namely, the goal and this directive that my predecessor was talking about? Sustainable development, protection of rivers or the protection of nature and citizens, but which must not prevent development but must retain an existing, existing state. So there's nothing wrong with that, and it's good to change that. I think it is positive whether it came from a parliamentary representative, an association of citizens or, or a European body, but we got a yellow card that is a fact that is related to the study or to environmental protection. I'll just remind you that a similar thing happened to us when I was discussing the security of the port, the same thing where we had to increase, increase this criterion or strengthen the criteria related to the environmental impact study that is related to, the ports, the port traffic in the ports themselves. So it's not our first time, and now the second thing is whether it's some kind of yellow card or some kind of warning. And that's fine by me, that's fine by me. Now we're coming to another part that should be completely irrelevant, but it turns out that it's the most important, so someone's going to say that this part that's connected to the institute is de facto let's say that it's kind of a new one. Possibly, possibly, there's a risk to that. In fact, by reading the part about the e-consumption I see that many people have passed it on, but it was even more fun reading, don't get me wrong, the proposal for a regulation that set up the institute itself that was, which was this summer. I've been taking fluid mechanics, so those who can suppress themselves and those who can't suppress themselves, I'm not this science doctor, I'm going to a lot of meetings now not because of the pandemic, but one of the things that I started to do with this job people were first asking me if there was a problem with flying a plane. So let's let this part go, we do politics here, not professions. We're here to deal with politics. The profession is an executive body that has to do something, what politics decides, so it has to do the political will, let's let it go now whether it's a majority, a minority, or it's unanimous, but that's the case, but that's the case. Because if the founder of the Institute of the Republic of Croatia is according to the Law on Institutes, then the organic law which then, there de facto says that it can be solved in two ways by regulation and lex specialis, the Law on the HRT, the Law on Fundamental and Medium Education, which would not have the law on the Institute, about the Institute of Water, no, one small decree so laid down on the side that essentially takes money from Croatian Waters, but according to the Law on Institutions, the founder is in charge of the business of the institution. Solidarity and unlimited and now to avoid that part then let's go get the money for something that we don't actually know, if a man doesn't read the proposal for a regulation, we don't know what she's going to do. Because from it that scientific component was cast out, it would happen post-festum, post-festum when and if. It would be the same as if the Primorian-Gorski County, for example. decide to build an institute to examine the quality of the sea, at least it's concrete. So we'll make an institute for that, instead of entrusting jobs to the Department of Public Health, so any customer can see where the sea is in Kvarner clean. Here, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47477	Next individual debate, distinguished Rada Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47478	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, the right to safe, clean and sound water is fundamentally protected by the Constitution. And that's already been arranged by our neighbours, so I hope that, apart from the changes in which we talked today about whether 3 about cleaning, 3 for example, the key and fellow Pavić summed them up somehow, about cleaning up the riverbeds, about the institute of unusual content and establishment and of course about paying compensation to people with both water streams or parts to be charged or exempted. How are we going to talk about cleaning up the riverbeds unless we ourselves care about the quality of not only water, and here I will invite Mr. Pavić to go with me to Babina Gora, so I will say something about how when we talk about the construction of a waste management centre, how could happen that such a center has been working on Babina Gora without what he was talking about, and this was not done by Mr. Pavic, it was neither done geologically nor hydrologically nor in a feasibility study since 2001. Dry as the Sahara Babina Gora is above the drinking water spring, has 100 springs, above the waterhole on which the only part and water system is Jurkovića mlina from which drinking water is powered by the waters of Cerovac, Vukmanić, partly the city water supply. There are 25 wells. So how is it possible that beneath Babina Gora where we have the sources and springs of 6 words that all end up in Kupa, which are Radonja, large and small Utinja, Bukvica and Gradnica and Trebinja, the annual flow of water from these sources is between 8 and 10 billion liters. Who could have decided that the waste management center was working on such a valuable source of water? What worries is that the location of Babina Gora will be used at the end of the end and the technologically mechanical biological processing that was chosen even in 2001 and that it is also included in the same thing as tragic in the waste management strategy from 2005 to 2025. So, pollution of ground and surface waters in this law, or we will change it, because associations in the area of Karlovac are worth environmental activists, from the Right, from the Consumers, have already informed the EU, have already received answers, have already succeeded in banning them from working. It is important that European funds have cleared and destroyed both part of the forest and paid for access routes for old technology from European funds and for real concern about what we will not have later to clean from gravel, if six words will be polluted, and all this is indeed contrary to the Water Framework Directive. This responsibility lies with the Ministry of Environment and Energy and the Environmental Protection Fund. And the institutes and institutes as we have imagined it are really interested to know if it's already planned for someone because we have enough institutes and at your own colleges, people are dealing with scientific work, and these researchs by activists are asking experts how they could determine unlike the state where the water springs will be built by a waste management centre. What is the synergy between our ministries that we will potentially really do the institute that will partially do the work done by Croatian Waters and will pay for Croatian Waters, and then we will do scientific works at the Institute that may be suitable for Croatian Waters as well as say that something can be built somewhere and that we will not destroy the water. Water is a human right, and it needs to remain that way, clean and here for us, and not with corrupt actions being questioned again.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47479	We've exhausted individual debates with this. Following the final debate, the first debate of the Centre and GLAS club is the distinguished representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47480	The chairman, my fellow MPs and MPs. I will refer to what is not in this law, given that I often suggest and speak in HS that our responsibility is not only to correctly rewrite something from the EU directive with which I agree in principle, but it is our fundamental responsibility to address the issues and problems of our citizens. And indeed, to replicate Mr Pavić immediately, it may not be crucial to know how hydrotechnics function, but it is more important to know how it works on water management and the water economy, the toxic component of HDZ and former Mayor Milan Bandic's party in the City of Zagreb. In fact, I don't think there's any better, and also sadder images of this contrast between what is available to our citizens, and what the state should provide them with what they see as a consequence of the bad government. Nowhere so many shiny fountains on one side, multiple paid and overpaid, and so much bad water infrastructure. Let's just remember the floods that broke out after every more heavy rain, remember the floods after the devastating earthquakes, remember the carelessness and neglect of state and city institutions filled with HDZ and Bandic's personnel. Let's think of a citizen who had to break in and thus get a criminal application because he was actually saving his own lives and the property of his fellow citizens at that point. Let us remember the impotence and impotence of state institutions to protect him on the one hand, on the other hand, to protect everyone else he tried to protect with his civic courage. None of this is in a document that the government is sending to adopt HS, there's no correcting any single one, I'm not going to say the wrong Drina, but I'm going to say no refurbished and not installed water pipes. There is not a single provision that would build on the responsibility of regional and local self-government units and their leaders to miss the timely application of funds, to all those funds that are secured in the Multi-annual Financial Framework as well as the Recovery and Resistance Plan, for all the billions and millions that we can withdraw and allocate in restoring our water network. Local elections at the door will be full of great promises, very likely new fountains, asking whether there will be provisions that will require the responsibility of the authorities and the establishment of the planning, but indeed the planning of the use of our water economy. My colleague, Rada Boric, pointed out before me that the right to water is constitutional law, meaning the right to clean, healthy, safe, but also financially accessible water. And how miserable all of our citizens feel by observing all these powerful agencies that were unable to provide that right, all the powerful politicians who boasted of their professional and scientific careers that could not guarantee this right, all the candidates and candidates who would tell them that here but now really, now what almost to our mothers, will now finally reach your threshold and so on in the capital city of Zagreb. Shouldn't we have thought a step of the day long ago? Shouldn't we have wondered what this directive really means? Rational, responsible, renewable, none of it in this document. We can only hope that another copying error has not been stolen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47481	The next final debate is from the HDZ Club of Representatives, distinguished representative Marko Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47482	Thank you very much. Here, on behalf of the HDZ Club, I would finally like to point out once again that the HDZ Club will support these amendments to the law, as well as to present arguments and answers to all that have been presented by colleagues in the debate. As I have already pointed out in an individual debate, the three components of this law are. The issue of gravel and harmonisation with the Water Framework Directive or the interpretation of this Directive should, therefore, be pointed out by the European Commission's letter, so that gravel in Croatia is possible, that this will only introduce an obligation or remove an article. Article 110(2), which provides for an exception to the implementation of environmental impacts, leaving exceptions to the protection and rescue of people, floods and removal of influences. We also remember the devastating floods that we had when Gunja and Sava were recently having, and we also remember when they had not defined the aid protocols between the states at all and exactly the Sava Commission which had intervened in Zagreb and defined the agreement, I apologize if it could be a little more quietly, so the cooperation protocols were defined on this issue, and I think that as far as the gravel work is concerned, and here I have warned myself, did positive things and associations that warned about it, we warned the Sava Project not to crash, and we are just glad that the scientific advice of this project was adopted, and also did studies of the management of the Sava River through Zagreb where the 3 options were made. Climate change is the key. The city of Zagreb has been defended on a thousand-year water or water that should appear once in 1000 years, and in the last 15 years I think... The canal, how many, three or four times, so something that should happen once in a thousand years, has happened to us three or four times in the last 15 years. and it is very important that we also react to the major projects that we have from the European Funds where billions of kunas are in agglomeration just to have a good, good and integrated institute that will integrate all knowledge of multidisciplinary work into this and work together with all other scientific institutions in this area, to do European projects and what is important for the Institute to say that it will, within a proper time frame, be certified and that it will meet the conditions for a scientific institution. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The third component of the law is the right to compensation for people who are subject to these very arrangements of the canals to water projects, and I think it's also very important and will benefit our citizens. In all, water is the treasure of Croatia, we should protect it, but we should also bring all our citizens. The right to water is a human right, but we also need to ensure the development of the economy and enable the development and revitalisation of all areas of the Republic of Croatia. I am pleased to have been able to pass all over Croatia, here is my colleague Boric, if he invites me, I will be happy to respond to all the areas in which they also point out. I visited all of Croatia as far as water is concerned. Of course, there are always problems that need to be addressed further and to be pointed out. There is also civil society, playing a great role and helping the state in this, but by the quality of the water, by the availability of water, by the wealth of the water of our wealth, we need to protect it. The Water Act and the transposition of such a directive guarantee enough to go in that direction. Projects conducted by the ministry, especially in the agglomerations of drinking water availability and drinking water protection, will contribute to a better life for citizens. And on behalf of the HDZ Club, I can say that we will confirm or support these amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47483	On behalf of the promoter, State Secretary Mario Šiljeg.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47484	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS, distinguished MPs and MPs. First of all, I would like to thank you sincerely for your constructive discussion, and I would like to thank my colleagues and colleagues from the ruling majority for their commendation. But maybe it's a little weird that I'm going to say now the constructive dilemmas that came from this side of the pay phone were also my dilemmas and are my dilemmas today. All those dilemmas that you pointed out, and Mrs. McNally. Bencic and Mr. Fabianic and Mrs. Boric and I don't know who he is, I can't remember at this point who was all involved in the debate, are the dilemmas that I would like and I'm giving this public one, I'm offering you, I want to use it honestly next week in the ministry to talk about this topic and to resolve all these dilemmas because, as I said, so are my dilemmas that have been bothering me since 2019. when we are actively working on these regulations on the Water Institute, the Institute of Water in the Republic of Croatia, and I am sure after an hour and a half of two debates at a meeting outside this Chamber and when for an hour and a half we exempt our political omen from which political options we come, there will be no dilemma. Do you think I as a scientist and a professor threw out on purpose with my associates a provision that the Institute of Water was a scientific institution at its beginning. Well, that was me. That was our key idea. However, in communication with the Ministry of Science and provisions concerning the provision of scientific institutions and scientific activities, there is simply one interstep. The one interstep is within the maximum prescribed time limit, which is also part of this solution, which means a maximum of 2 years. We as an institution, the Institute of Water, must obtain conditions in order to obtain the status of a scientific institution by law in the field of science and education. That's the ultimate goal. The ultimate goal of the Institute is to be a mixed character, a professional and scientific institution. I, if I'm able, at the job I'm doing today, I'm not giving up on that option. So the Institute must be scientific, but in a maximum of 2 years, how the law prescribes when it acquires its terms. So, constructively, dilemmas, the same dilemmas that we are considering and considering and offering once again, next week, by your choice, one afternoon to sit down and pass them all once together. What I can't accept is just one finding from one parliamentary representative, who is disappointing and humiliating to me,... /Intruder: Please./ [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So the only thing I've heard is disappointing to me and humiliating, when a young man, a highly educated young man, says, is that there's some kind of institution being set up for some kind of scientific science project. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] In 2021, when we have ahead of us the Green Plan of the EU Commission which offers us really as much as we accept both money and resources to develop science, in the Croats, to strengthen scientific institutions, someone, so look back, no matter how many elections we have in 2.3 weeks, thus disabling the idea, a noble idea, in my opinion, the establishment of a scientific institution, that is the only way I cannot accept it. So it was a funding dilemma. You know what the cost is, new cost for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, taxpayers? 0 Kuna. It was a fundamental thought and an idea. So you don't take from taxpayers any extra kuna for one of these institutions. How will it be financed? The funds of the Croatian Waters will be financed from, among other things, which are collected from the targeted fees for the activities that Croatia has yet to carry out today. Do Croatian waters, with all the opportunities they have, i.e. The best lab I know of in this part of Europe fully fulfils their obligations. Yes, yes, to fully meet them, would we have this kind of communication with the EU Commission that tells us, yes, there is certainly room for monitoring and concern both groundwater and water treasure in the Republic of Croatia. More speakers said we were the richest. We are, we are the richest, 27 thousand cc's per each of us here and every one of us in Croatia, the quality, renewable supply of drinking water. If in 5 years we can say that we are the richest, depending on us, depends on the pressures on water, and I would dare say, depends on how successful this idea, which has been launched from the Ministry, means that after 10 years of possibility, the open opportunity to form a separate institution that will be scientifically professionally engaged in water, finally and realized. So, funding for those jobs for which Croatia's water obligations have been carried out so far, and compensation will be used to finance that part of the work of the Institute, the monitoring that is most important to us. Is the Institute open to external cooperation or are the possibilities of other sources of funding open? Yeah. So we are starting with several projects already with our partner countries from the EU, so with projects that have already been approved and established and certainly that this source of funding is also crucial to what we want to get, and we really want to get, among other things, highly educated people who produce our universities and other universities, we are now totally open, so I expect and we imagined it in such a way that this source from the years of the Institute's work becomes a dominant source of funding for such an institution. And in the end, when the debate had already focused on these, from these 3 points on this scientific point, or on the Institute of Water, meaning from the same representative that I had apostrophe, it was in my impression of a humiliating finding, on the name of the Institute Josip Juri Strossmayer. That sounded so good to me. Yes, the suggestion is that the Institute is called Josip Juri Strossmayer Institute. Why? Because, on 7.9.1976, Bishop Josip Juri Strossmayer founded and pointed out, he gave an indication of the establishment of a company for the regulation of the river Vuka and this is the first document in the water economy, the official document in the water economy and the basis of that document and that date, Croatia's waters celebrate the Day of Croatian Waters and Bishop Strossmayer is considered the founder of the water economy in the Republic of Croatia, and I am very proud and I am very proud that we have crystallised the name of Bishop Strossmayer as the name that our Institute should bear. Once again, thank you all for the constructive debate and I sincerely believe and hope that you will accept my invitation and that we will discuss all these dilemmas in the ministry and I am sure that in that case until the second reading, we will have no doubt about this topic, we guarantee it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47485	We have two replicas, the first distinguished representative is Erik Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47486	Thank you. You mentioned targeted fees which would be financed by the Institute and it turns out that the Institute would not have had much of a cost, no, so I would ask you to explain a little bit to me this part of the targeted fee itself and allow me a diversion related to the name and that you would not consider it an evil diversion related to the esteemed J.J. Strossmayer whose right hand was Franjo Rački, I think it would be good to make a wine institute with that name, considering that thanks to J.J. Strossmayer who brought to Croatia the Paradise varieties, today we have quality wines in northern Croatia. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47487	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47488	Thank you very much, here may be an additional clarification in this short time as I can. So targeted water monitoring fees that today Croatia is taking, much of these fees that Croatia is taking, what are they doing with it today? Today they work with it in a way that they use the part for the main water-economic laboratory, means they carry out these activities on their own and most of them are placed on multi-annual subcontracts with subcontractors, conditionally told to the subcontractors but externally, the aim is that when the institute is strengthened over a few years, when it is used primarily on biological, biological monitoring is almost not satisfactory, there we have the most criticism from the European Commission, meaning that this monitoring in one institution that has the capacity, only lacks a good organisation and further strengthening means of this scientific staff in order to fully say, we can respond to the requests of the European Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47489	Next replica, distinguished representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47490	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, here I would like my appeal to be accepted this time, because he is an excerpt from the Slovenian law that has been in force for 10 years and that in Article 2. 110. behind “exceptionally the same procedures are not carried out in cases of protection and rescue of people, animals, material and cultural goods and environments in floods, and when cleaning up floods of gravel, sand, land, wood in the roots of our rivers and water streams.” If possible, I would then realize that we really have the desire and will to regulate the streams of our rivers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47491	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47492	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Here, as I have referred to the provisions on the Institute and the call for opposition, or the honourable MPs and MPs of the opposition, to discuss, so here I invite you on behalf of your associates that next week we also pass once more, but not only means the provisions of this law but that we pass the provisions of the habitat directive that have been transposed into the Nature Protection Act, Article. 8, I think after that plus the environmental impact assessment provisions, we're going to be one step closer to our mutual understanding and thinking about this topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-30-0.u47493	Thank you, Secretary of State. We've exhausted the debate with this. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
