ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u42744	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 12.00 HOURS]] The proposal to supplement the agenda was submitted by electronic means. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The rules of procedure of the written objections to the proposal to supplement the agenda have not been established that all the proposed items have been included in the agenda of the 7th session. We're going to vote now. The first is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Local Elections Here's your buddy, Grmo. [[Excuse me for a moment, Mr. President.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u42745	All I'm asking is for information on the resolution of the President of the Supreme Court of Justice, Djura Sesse, is whether she was included in the agenda we handed over and signed by 23 MPs, I think.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u42746	Okay, here's the information about that point. I saw it, I got it. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia of the President of the Supreme Court, with the prior opinion of the General Session of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia and the Committee for the Justice of the Croatian Parliament of the Republic of Croatia, resolves the Croatian Parliament on the proposal of the President of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. point (b) is replaced by the following: The Law on Courts of Justice shall be submitted by the President of the Supreme Court to the President of the Republic of Croatia on which, in accordance with paragraph 3 of that Article, the Croatian Parliament shall decide, with the prior opinion of the General Meeting of the Supreme Court and of the Committee on Justice. On the basis of Article 172, paragraph 2. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have the right to propose other acts by legislators, i.e. any representative, representatives' clubs, working bodies of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, unless the Constitution, Rules of Procedure or the law stipulates that a single proposal must be submitted by only certain bodies or by a certain number of representatives. Since the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Law on Courts provides that a proposal for the resolution of the President of the Supreme Court is submitted by the President of the Republic of Croatia, the proposal for an act of the Club of Representatives of the Most High Court is not submitted in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Law on Courts and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, and therefore I cannot put that proposal on the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u42747	Okay, just a brief statement given that the proposal was signed by a good part of the opposition clubs except for the SDP, I mean IDS and the Centre. I, too, would like to express one message to the Croatian public that there is a critical mass in the Croatian Parliament that wants to change in the judiciary, which wants to replace Djuru Sessu whom you have appointed and ask the President of the Republic and Prime Minister to agree as soon as possible on the new President of the Supreme Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u42748	Okay, now you've abused the Rules of Procedure a little bit, but I won't react. Did you have anything else here? Did you and your colleague Sacic do something to hurt the Rules of Procedure? You're not, no.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u42772	The next will be the Association of State Movement Representatives in the name of the respected representative Stipo Mlinarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u42773	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Today I will talk about one giant, Andrija Maric, Antun Brkan, Drazen Kiss, Zdenko Marijanović, Milan Berton and Robert Zadar. This is the story of a big apple, a oak to a young Slavonic, about Zadar, but not of Mildness, but of Robert or Roba as we called it. Tomorrow's the 10th day Vukovar turned black again. We were in the same class and we were playing, we were competing, we were messing around, we were learning and we were sharing some secrets. A lot of us from that generation stayed together for a long time. We used to share books and balls, and then we shared uniforms, rifles and positions. We were a brave and defiant generation, we weren't concerned with assessing what our chances were, our criteria were defiance and struggle for theirs at all costs and contempt for the arrogant Chetnic gang that attacked us. So came the legendary Turbo platoon, 14.9.91. made up of 18 young men ranging from 18 to 25 years of age. It was an intervention platoon that put his head where others couldn't even set their feet. There may be an impression that Turbo's intruder is operating on the charisma and leadership of the late Blaga. But it wasn't like that, it wasn't, it wasn't, it wasn't, or it wouldn't be possible. The size of Mild Zadre was precisely that he was able to manage and play hard roles for others and recognize the abilities of others, leaders, and Robo was. He's a 22-year-old boy. who put himself responsible, cared for others, assessed things objectively, maintained calmness, transmitted motivation, took care of fellow fighters and took responsibility. It's a shame that the strength and size of this hero is hard to get through to the public. I especially remember one event that explicitly outlines and amazes it. It was 16.10.In '91, a seemingly minor dangerous action ended tragically for Commander Borov settlement, the Treasure of Zadar died. He was our role model, friend, trust, commander and hero back then. But one of us was even more than that, Robert was also the father. We quickly organized ourselves, neutralized the machine gun nest, and pulled the body of our commander. The news of the death of a defense attorney in Vukovar has not been news for a long time. But the destruction of the treasure should be not news but an earthquake to the ground of each of us. The defenders still toughen up, shift their minds to battle, so somehow with the killings and cope, but the treasure in my mind was not meant to die, and in Robert's, we stood by the stage that night without knowing what they felt like or were going off. So after the heavy battle we gathered in command next to the stage of Blaga Zadre. He who was the most upright and strong now lay motionless forever. We prayed and said goodbye, that's how it works. And Robert was standing there next to us, painful faces without words, then he said something, we go on fighting, there'll be time to cry when this war is over. Those words seem to have driven away all doubts about what we need to feel. The idea of the importance and sublimeness of this battle has again filled us with meaning, strength, and brightness. And I felt then especially how we had the treasure again, Robo didn't look back, and he didn't stop thinking with his father's head, but with his own, he was determined, responsible, and bold. This event and the guard of the knight Roba deeply touched me, the world of our defense and Croatia unjustly neglecting this great warrior hero. He reminded of Mild, but he was not a copy of him, he was his own, and when his father left, his world did not collapse because his world remained, Croatia. These were already the last days of the Vukovar defense, we should have chosen a new commander of the Borov settlement defense, and the name of Robert Zadar was imposed, but he thought far away then, I will not, for the sake of my late father, will not be written down that Zadro had given up the city. I'll fight my boys while we can, but I won't give up the city. And he didn't, he didn't give up. For him the war could have been over, he lost the city, he lost his friends, he lost his father, but Robo couldn't think so, he had his heart and his love for the country that kept calling him, and now especially his Hercegovina, his motherland, heard that call and went with a group of comrades. His heart drew him, and he was ready to lay down his life for his country, and the altar of his life was.../The speakers speak at the same time./... the highlandsman, on the next day of 10.4., he born Vukovar, and in the heart of Herzegovac laid his life in his homeland, and his father, born Herzegovac in Vukovar, laid his life. This is my little debt Robo to a friend of yours. May heaven pay you When Dragana Jeckov reads this, then you will.../Speakers speak at the same time./... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u42774	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs will be the green-left block on behalf of which the respected representative Damir Bakic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u42906	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. State graduation is the highest form of external evaluation of secondary education even more, state graduation is also the key to enrolment of young people, graduates to the desired universities and studies. In this respect, the responsibility of those involved in the preparation, implementation and supervision of the state graduation cannot be greater. In this same sense, for the same reason, national prom must remain spotlessly clean, absolutely fair and at all costs must give everyone equal chances. If we allow corruption or any form of corrupt behavior to enter the system, not only have we allowed someone to gain something that does not belong to them but we have allowed it to be done to harm colleagues and colleagues, peers, students whose life doors may have remained closed. And even more than that, that's the way we've actually offended the very idea of learning and knowledge, so we're destroying the very foundations of the education system. There is, however, a very well-founded suspicion that this happened last fall, and it was intervened by many things, judging by corruption in the score of student works. Thirteen students received additional points for unequivocally incorrect answers from the Committee for the Monitoring of State Graduation, due to procedural errors in first-degree decision-making and communication. Director of the National Centre for External Evaluation of Education Ivana Katavic and two other members of the commission that also come from the National Centre have assured the rest of the commission of the need for this unfounded addition of points. It is precisely because of this event that two members of the Board of Directors of the National Centre Ninoslav Škukanec, Tihomir Tomcic, resigned on their membership in that and such a mole body. For this very same reason, but it seems quite different positions by a member of the Board of Directors of the National Centre for External Evaluation of Education do not respond to sessions and thus knowingly collapses the quorum. It is clear that for the crisis, the principal responsibility is borne by Director Ivana Katavic and also by the Committee for the Monitoring of the Implementation of State Prosecution. However, the responsibility is borne by Minister Fuchs as well as by the Government of the Republic of Croatia because it is the Minister and the Government that appoints that commission and the Administrative Council of the National Centre for External Evaluation. Already so far, the institution of state graduation has done enormous damage because trust has been violated in both the process and the people. And precisely because of her graduation, because of her value in the complete system, in order to preserve her credibility, it is necessary to react urgently and vigorously. Therefore, we ask that Director Katavic resign or put his mandate at his disposal immediately. We ask the minister to conduct administrative surveillance and determine whether there was anything illegal in these events, especially if there was corrupt behaviour. We also ask the Minister that he and the Government, in fact, is in their jurisdiction, resolve the current members of the Committee for the Monitoring of the Implementation of State Prosecution, as well as the Governing Council of the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education and to appoint new members. We can't agree to anything less than that because nothing less than that can't solve the problem. And if not, your share of responsibility, but now not only objectively, but your share of direct responsibility throughout this story will be borne by Minister Fuchs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u42969	The next Club of Representatives will be that of the Centre and GLAS on behalf of which the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u42970	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs and MPs, we 5-6 as many as we are currently left in the hall. I must admit I don't remember in my life a sadder Easter than the one we've marked now. He was sad about the death of a little girl, a little child in tragic circumstances that we can say that in one way or another, the state itself is responsible. I must admit that I expected after such a dramatic and difficult event that the president of HS would come to his senses and call HS for a minute of silence. I will not now trouble and enter into a debate for which all minutes of silence in HS was held, for example, from 2017 to today, for whom it was or was not necessary. All I'm going to say is that I expected a minute of silence to be held on this case in a symbolic way to show that HS has a conscience, that we are aware of the roles and responsibilities of the state, and thus HS for the legislative and other conditions in which our competent state bodies operate, and I was waiting for this Friday because I know that the assembly is empty, because I know that there are no media following these discussions. And since it really bothers me that we haven't thought of keeping this minute of silence, I'm going to use the time available to take free views to keep that minute of silence in a symbolic way, even if it's just me. Thank you, colleagues. .../Minute silence./... And now I will say what the main responsibility of HS and these HDZ authorities is, among other things, in the absence of a report by the Ombudsman for 2019, 2020. In that report for 2019, the Council adopted Decision (EU) 2015/35 on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Union and the European Union and the European Economic Community, the European Economic Community, the European Economic Area, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation and the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation and the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation and the Swiss Confederation. The Advocate General has, clearly, precisely, made detailed recommendations based on her work and knowledge of the situation on the ground, the situation in practice needs to be changed, which needs to be corrected in order to make the welfare care system and the social care centre system more effective and better. On the one hand, she pointed to the difficulties faced by the users, on the other hand, she pointed to inadequate conditions in which the Centre for Social Care is working, if ever since 2019, so far we have put this report in order, perhaps we could avoid the situation of not one death, I must say that this minute of silence was not dedicated only to little Nicole, it was dedicated to all the victims of our social care system, and perhaps that would also protect our employees in this system from this heist that happened in this tragic case these days. These centers are overloaded, we've assigned them jurisdiction, roles and powers we shouldn't have, we haven't given them adequate working conditions, we haven't equipped them with resources, we've given them cars, we've put resources to work, we've burdened them with unnecessary administrations, and we haven't taken any normative legislative action to change anything in the Family Law, the Social Care Act, or to explore where the problems are so that we try and solve these problems. Of course, I can't talk about problems in an empty assembly, but I can appeal to what little conscience there is still in this HS, to start a dialogue in time so that future tragic cases, which we can expect if everything remains the same, are avoided in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u42971	Thank you very much. That's what we'd end up with today's work. We'll continue the session on Wednesday 14 April at 9.30, and you'll be on time. Have a nice weekend. The session was interrupted at 13:12 p.m. The next Club of Representatives will be the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Sabina Vosovac and the vice president of this high house will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u43128	Thank you, Mr. Vice President HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. Last year was difficult for everyone, especially for our seniors. Let us not forget that this is the generation that lost last year because of the longest strike in Croatia's recent history. After that, the students of Zagreb and the surrounding areas were affected by earthquakes, and the ministry instead assisted the whole story and made life easier for these young people, in fact, making it difficult for them to end up. So the graduates almost 10 days before graduation didn't know what exams they were going to take, when they were going to take them, whether they were only mandatory or mandatory and electoral items, they didn't know what was going to be the range of material that would be questioned at the prom, and in fact the state had made a big appointment. Fortunately, however, the graduation has passed, but what happened in the autumn period shows that this is where the Calvary started and that as if there was not enough trauma that the state and the ministry made to our graduates, it has managed in some way to share the same graduates in the autumn period of the state graduation exams. The scandal that happened exactly six months ago, which we probably wouldn't have talked about today in HS if he hadn't seen the light 10 days ago when two honorable men resigned to a position in the Board of the National Centre for External Valuation, an external evaluation of education and sought to protect them on a personal request, would probably have been successfully covered up. But this isn't just a scandal, this is also a corruption affair, never seen before in the education system. State graduation is, we will all agree that in Croatian society one of the biggest problems is just corruption. And if we've managed to build anything in the last 10-15 years, if we've ever managed to establish a successful mechanism, then it's a national prom. It is not only an external evaluation of education, it is also a strong anti-corruption mechanism that guarantees all students equal access, but must also guarantee objectivity and credibility. And that HDZ managed to disrupt, destroy this scandal, I say, that happened six months ago. And while children were diligently learning and preparing under impossible conditions to pass a single exam that would greatly determine their fate by some people at the National Centre for External Evaluation of Education under the auspices of the Ministry and Government, the gods and intervention by adding points put certain students in a better position than all others. Who's been responsible for that to this day? No one. Two men, an honorable man who warned that the leadership or administrative council of the centre was trying to cover up the scandal with which he was familiar, had resigned, the other had not happened, only Minister Fuchs said the other day that I was canceling or canceling the Commission's appointment decision, and they were responsible all, the director of the centre for failing to preserve the justice, objectivity and credibility of the state's graduation and providing all the students with equal conditions and possibilities and apparently failed to resist the pressure because the pressure was obviously any of whom and why and whose account we do not know, but it would have to be removed. And that's why I'm saying this isn't just a scandal, it's possible and it's business that needs to be explored and other bodies. The minister is responsible for naming the commission and cannot remove responsibility from himself simply by repealing this Decision on the appointment of the commission. The members of the Governing Council, together with the President of the Governing Council, are responsible for taking part in the cover-up of this situation, and they were aware that it has been forged or that by adding points has been granted to certain accessees, but also by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Science and Education and the Government because we now have a situation that the Administrative Council simply cannot function because two members have resigned and one member has been unlawfully resolved by the government and it has been annulled by the Court, given by the Ministry of Science and Education, it does not even appear, so you have 4 members of the Governing Council of which one, persistently receives compensation, does not appear to avoid the removal of apparently Director Katavic and this does not work. The board of directors isn't working. So I'm not asking for the responsibility just to step down. Katavic as well as everyone else in the chain of this obvious corruption that has now bitten both the education system and our young people. It's sad.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u43219	The next club of representatives will be the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Goran Dodig will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u43220	First you'd be... the point you'd be talking about today. First point, why I chose medicine as my life's journey, my life's call, two why I wanted to learn about politics, thirdly, why I thought about being human. I realized it's not easy being, without knowing responsibility isn't enough. All my decisions one, two and three became part of my body, spirit and life. That's for starters. The other thing I'd like to say to you is this, have you heard of Fran Supill? You know that. And the other who you know? Nobody knows. Yes, if that's the case, then I have to tell you who Frano Supilo was, he said about the following, every politician must have all three things, thick skin, good stomach and a clean conscience, and Jessie Jackson in politics is a political majority. That's what we need to talk about. We see the third thing you would like today, I see that in Croatia there is a global threat in the world, a disease that cannot be seen at the end. A young country only 30 years ago, a year ago the earthquake in Zagreb, again in Banovina, etc., on the surface of one part of Croatian politics poured out all selfishness of irresponsibility, a need for power beyond any reasonable reason of politics. It is inadmissible that levels of serious instability of state institutions have been ruled by pessimism, fear and hopelessness. The collapsed composition is at least the beginning of the value on which the Croatian people are constantly producing fear and their own feelings, their own sense of failure. How do you judge these people compared to HS? I'd give them a grade two, of course it's about, they have an opposition. And a very good man most of them would be most of them. The MP has one vote, one vote from the 76th majority, and now we're calm, we maintain the majority, the assembly hears "unhappiness", "responsibility", "aggression", and there's no need to cooperate, to discuss, it's incomprehensible to me. Why is a priority opposition always against the majority? I'm inside most, I respect her, I respect her. Yeah, maybe we should talk about personality disorder. Yeah, yeah, we need to talk about personality disorder, so let's see who it is, who it is. I'm sorry that there are people who don't think so and I don't think of them, I think best of this gentleman, what's his name, Stipo Milanić, I, I respect him because he wants it for his own sake, but not for other reasons. So in that sense, what does paranoid personality disorder mean? I'll put it briefly, extreme suspiciousness, expectations of hostile environmental behavior, emotional cold, rigidity, regularity, easily more vulnerable and aggressive and in connection with their rights, etc. What are borderline personality disorders? Do you know what a borderline personality disorder is? Identity, identity, variable mood, impulse and profitability, low tolerance threshold. How are we going to live in our country with this tolerance and democracy? How? What's a narcissistic personality disorder? To yourself... the importance of significant, have a constant need for new successes, a less urban importance of meaning, but below the looks of superiority there are reduced self-respect, uncertainty and inferiority [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, just a little bit. [[Intruder: Thank you]] It wouldn't be bad to see if you have personality disorder, yet you can hardly see And every single one of our Gods unsettled, unhappiness and hatred. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u43221	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, I suggest we continue our work. We can sit down who wants to attend or speak, who wants to leave, so that we can continue our work. Fellow Bauk, Bosnjakovic, can we? So, let's take a stand on behalf of the representatives' clubs and independent representatives, and the first one will speak for the independent MPs on behalf of the respected representative Karolina Vidović Kristo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u43454	Ladies and gentlemen. Employees of a well-known European trade chain working in the cooling department in the distribution centre in Croatia spend six hours in rooms where the temperature is below zero. The company's rule is that an employee should not stay longer than two hours at that temperature, so their colleagues in Germany, Slovenia or Slovakia or the Czech Republic do not stay longer than two hours because it is harmful to health. In Croatia, of course, the same should not be longer than two hours, but given the non-functional nature of the institutions, in this case the Croatian State Inspectorate suffers, is silent and works. Why does a nurse in Croatia earn 800 euros at the age of 20 and the same job in Slovenia, Austria or Germany is paid twice as much? The answer is quite clear, because our institutions are not doing their job, because the media are not serving the public but political economic powers. And that's why our employees have poor working conditions, our young poor perspective, and all of this just so a narrow handful of HDZ's SDP structures and their helpers can live as Arab sheiks because someone has to finance corruption, and these are average citizens. It was announced the other day that Knighthead's vulture fund had a correspondence with Governor Vujčić in which the governor of the CNB acts as a lower-ranked official of a fund, not as governor of a national bank. At the same time, it was announced that the DORH has filed charges against Ivica Todoric and the other 18 co-indictees because they have done damages of no less than 18 billion kuna. At the time of the damage, this Vujčić was a vice governor, and later the governor. If we had a P from the rule of law, such damage would have to cause general improvement within the state services of the IRS, the police, the DORH, courts to the National Bank and the media. At the time of this gentleman's reign from the castle above Zagreb, his name was written with high respect and it was written exclusively positively because the critical questioning of Croatian mainstream media did not know. So these Croatian media about Todorovic, Tedeschi, Sanader while he was in power, Racan, Anti Vlahovic, Plenkovic, so-called Judge Šeparović and the rest of the elite are allowed to write only in superlatives. Of course, this judotist style could write about Tudjman and about 200,000 marks that we remember were not illegal, but about billions that are corrupt about it cannot be written about. Imagine the media starting to explore this so-called. The Borg or Tedeschi, for example, about all the pension funds that were given to Tedeschi, if the media were to investigate, the system would be discussed. If we had a functioning legal state then Vujčić would not be governor, but at that time neither banks, nor interest agencies would be able to break European regulations and throw Croatian citizens on the street, but banks and agencies would be under control and they would have to comply with the laws, and Croatian citizens would then be protected. The key to Croatian development is the rule of law and equality, which is the interest of the vast majority of Croatian citizens. But it's also not in the interest of those who benefit from the present state, and these are the social powers that, because of not applying the law, continue uninterruptedly with their work. The application of the law implies that there are no exceptions because someone is my cousin, a party friend, or a friend. We Croats have, like all other European peoples, the right to consume laws, we have the right to be equal in our country that treats all its citizens in the same way. No one can take that right away from us, no utopian deep state and no powers as powerful as they are and in whatever way they gain that power. Only a state of functional rule of law can create conditions for a successful economy and social progress. That is why it is our obligation to arrange Croatia as a just state, and those who create chaos and prevent the legal functioning of state bodies should be detained and punished.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u43950	And followed by a statement on amendments to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Elections, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 128. The proposer is the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by representative Zeljko Sačić, Center and GLAS Representatives Club, SDP Representatives' Club, Arsen Bauk and HDZ Representatives' Club. The review of the amendments has been sent to you by electronic means. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. Dear Secretary of State Sanjin Rukavin. 1st Amendment is the Club of Representatives of the HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u43951	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs, allow me to read the amendments in front of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as a proposal. The amendment shall be accepted first, in Art. 2. now reads, in Art. 13th century 2 is amended as follows: Voters and political parties shall not be allowed to be a member of the representative body of the unit, nor for the municipal chief, mayor and mayor and their deputy to run for the persons convicted by a judicial authority for criminal offences for a period of at least 6 months or for which the sentence is replaced by work for the general good or by the condition of conviction. Article 3 of this Article does not apply to persons convicted of criminal offences who are not subject to a sentence of imprisonment if they are replaced by a sentence for general good or by a sentence of probation. The adoption of this amendment mitigated the conditions for the ban on running, thus ensuring that passive voting rights can also be exercised by persons who have not committed serious and particularly unfair offences. Therefore, it is not prohibited to apply for persons who have committed non-compliance crimes and are sentenced to prison if they are replaced by a sentence for general good or by a condition of conviction.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u43952	Okay, it's becoming an integral part of the law. 2. The amendment is the representative of Zeljko Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u43953	The amendment is not accepted. The following draft law will no longer be laid down and taxed in the Catalogue of certain criminal offences as it has been prescribed so far, but the prohibition of running will also apply to perpetrators of criminal offences who have been fined in a final sentence of at least 6 months, or the sentence imposed has been replaced by the work for the common good or has been applied to the same conditional sentence, except for persons who have been sentenced to a judicial sentence for criminal offences committed in the absence of a sentence of imprisonment if that sentence has been replaced by work for the general good or the condition of judgment. A ban on running is, by its nature, the legal consequence of the conviction. The legal consequences of the conviction come under the force of the law after a person is convicted of a criminal offence. It is therefore important in the regulation of the legal consequences of the conviction that a person is found guilty of the offences committed and the sentence imposed. It is also important to take account of the judicature of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia and of the European Court of Human Rights, which underlines the importance of the principle of proportionality when prescribing the legal consequences of the conviction. Taking into account all the restrictions on candidateing in the elections, it is not possible to tie it to the criminal proceedings in progress, both because of the principle of proportionality and because of the presumption of innocence. If someone is still running in the elections and is elected and prosecuted, and the person is eventually convicted during the term of office there are provisions in the Law on local elections that regulate the termination of the term of office by force of the law because of the power to condemn a criminal offence. This respects the presummation of innocence, but subsequent effective mechanisms are prescribed in the event of a conviction for a criminal offence during the term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u43954	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u43955	Well, I'm not satisfied with your decision, not even with the explanation. You have offered nothing new, we have had the opportunity to accept this amendment, to accept expectations of the Croatian public, to clean up one of our politically active voters, to encourage people who have an active electoral right to approach elections not to say that we are all the same, to run for people already in conflict with the law, but you have not done so and I demand that we vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u43956	All right. Next is the third amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u43957	The amendment shall be accepted, in Art. 4th wheel. 3. is now referred to as: If he is sentenced to a criminal offence for a sentence of at least 6 months, or is replaced by that sentence by the work of general good or by a conditional sentence on the day of his sentence, except for the offences referred to in Article 3. The 13th century of this law. Following the adoption of the first amendment, the adoption of this amendment relieved the reasons for the termination of the term of office of a representative body, thus ensuring that the term of office does not end for persons who have not committed serious and particularly unfair offences. Therefore, it will not stop the term of office of a member of the representative body who has committed a crime of non-compliance and is sentenced to prison if the sentence is replaced by work for the general good or by a conditional conviction.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u43958	It's becoming an integral part. 4. Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u43959	The amendment is accepted in part and amended, and reads as follows: On the day of the check-out of the residence from the unit of amendments, it is accepted in the amended form so that the term of office ceases on the day of the check-out of the residence from the unit, which includes the personal check-out of the residence and the check-out of the residence by official duty and avoids any doubts.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u43960	It's obvious on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u43961	Consent.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u43962	The same amendment is the Club of Representatives of the Centre and of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u43963	The amendment is of a substance identical to the amendment No. 4 SDP representatives' clubs and is partly accepted in the amended form and reads as follows: on the day of the check-out of residence from the unit area, the same explanation as in Amendment 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u43964	Here you are on behalf of the GLAS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u43965	Thank you very much. We accept the argument even though I don't understand why you had that same norm in the former law, why you even changed it, but what it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u43966	6th Amendment of Representative Arsen Bauk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u43967	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The termination of the term of office of a representative body shall not be subject to the power of judgment of another legal or natural person but solely to the judgment of that member of the representative body under the conditions of the prescribed law. In addition, the term of office of a representative body is irrevocable and non-binding and they cannot be recalled, both by those who chose them, from those who proposed them. The reasons for the termination of the term of office of a representative body are laid down in law, are personal in nature and relate to cases relating to the personal status of a person and cannot be based on the status of the applicant of the candidate list.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u43968	It's obvious, Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u43969	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, the term of office when it comes to winning is personal. But no one here but those who went off the list of voters entered with their name and last name. Without a party, very few of us would be here, very few of us. So, what do we have for the situation now? The person is running, he's being prosecuted, he says, the attorney's office has made a mistake, I'm innocent, then he gets a wrongful verdict, he says the first, the court of the first degree was wrong, I'm innocent, I'm going to file a complaint, and then there comes a powerful verdict, then he can say the court is wrong, but his term ends. This applies to anyone running on the political party list or on an independent list or a voter's list. And when that happens to a legal person, or political party, we do have it again, so the attorney's office is wrong, the blame is individuals, not the party, then says this court, but it's the party's fault, and then the party says, no, we're not guilty, we're gonna complain, they're individuals, and then the court of higher level, if that happens, it's the party's fault, and someone's got to deal with the consequences. So that's how it should be. The party, of course, can speak politically is not this one, it's the last one or the last one, or the one before last, since the story of a political party has already been told. Therefore, I believe that if individual criteria are already tightened, the criteria should be tightened for political parties as well. Besides, if you would, this isn't a restraining order. If the party goes to the election after the verdict, it can, people can vote for it again, however, in the campaign they can speak we have changed, we accept, the fact that the elections themselves, shows that we are aware and trust us again and ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u43970	Next, the 7th Amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u43971	Thank you very much. The amendment is accepted. In the case of a Member State of 3 Now it is said: If he is convicted of a criminal offence by a powerful verdict, or is replaced by that penalty by the work of general good or by a conditional sentence, by the day of power of judgment, except for the offences of the article. 13th century 3 of this Law. Following the adoption of the first amendment, the adoption of this amendment facilitated the reasons for the termination of the term of office of the municipal chief, mayor, mayor and their deputy and thus ensures that the term of office does not end for persons who have not committed serious and particularly unfair crimes. Therefore, it will not stop the term of office of the municipal chief, the mayor, the mayor and their deputy, who has committed the crime of disability and has been sentenced to prison if the sentence has been replaced by work for general good or probation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u43972	It becomes an integral part of the law. 8th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u43973	Thank you very much. The amendment shall be accepted in part in the amended form and read as follows: On the day of the check-out of residence from the unit area. The amendment has been accepted in the amended form so that the term of office ceases on the day of the check-out of residence from the unit, covering both the personal check-out of residence and the check-out of residence by official duty and avoiding any doubts.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u43974	It's obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u43975	Consent.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u43976	Okay. 9th Amendment of the Center's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u43977	Thank you very much. The amendment is of a substance identical to the amendment No. 8 Clubs of Representatives of the SDP and is partly accepted in the amended form and reads as follows: On the day of departure of residence from the unit area, the same explanation as in addition to Amendment 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u43978	Here you go, Center and Voice Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u43979	All right.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u43980	All right. 10th Amendment of Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u43981	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The suspension of the term of office of the municipal chief, mayor and mayor and their deputy may not be tied to the final judgment of another legal or natural person, but solely to the ruling concerning that municipal mayor, mayor and mayor, or the deputy under the terms of the prescribed law. In addition, municipal chiefs, mayors and mayors are elected directly and may be recalled through referendums by those who have chosen them, citizens or voters, but not by those who have proposed them. The reasons for the termination of the term of office of the municipal chief, mayor, mayor and deputy, by law, are prescribed by law, are personal nature and related to cases relating to the personal status of the person and cannot be based on the status of the applicant of the candidate list.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u43982	Thank you, Secretary of State. This is what we're... I'm sorry. Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u43983	Thank you. So I'll repeat what I said about councilmen. Those elected under their name and last name as independent candidates or candidates of a group of voters, okay, but those elected by a political party, proposed by the political party, whose political party funded the campaign, could still be legally, if the parliament decided to tie it up a little with the fate of the judicial, political parties she had run for office, to the extent that the political party could be convicted of financing the campaign just when they were elected, even with the speed of the Croatian judiciary, perhaps 16 mandates before, but it should always be hoped for optimal justice. And then when someone who is a good mayor, when the mandate ends, because someone 10 years ago, 15 years ago, on behalf of a party, something bad, he can always say it's not us, this is a new party, it's those before or before, before and perhaps citizens give even more votes to such a candidate, so basically this was an opportunity for individuals from a party who might possibly, hypothetically, be convicted of something, be singled out, show modesty, regret and all that is necessary when something like that happens, maybe the citizens of that party, and to allow those individuals from that party to be recognized as something better than the rest, especially those who brought them to a possible rightful verdict that I don't prejudge the outcome in the second degree, I think it would be good to accept that this amendment that, of course, individuals would have passed a kind of purgatory place in which they would have really rewarded them if they were all who did it anyway. I'm asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u43984	Okay. Thank you, Secretary of State. This concludes this point, we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u43985	Yeah, take a break, okay. Then let's go with the request for a break, it's about the first point and the vote, well, then please, colleagues, Mr. Taritash, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u43986	Thank you very much, well-respected Croatian Presidential Assembly. Please pause for 10 minutes on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Club, and it is related to the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Local Elections. Last year we had that law twice in the parliamentary procedure, we changed it twice. The last time we changed it was in December last year. We're a little more than a month ahead of the local elections, and we're going to vote on it today. When the amendment and supplementation came, it seemed to me that reason somehow came to the government and would decide to reduce the number of necessary signatures for the mayor, or for the leaders of regional and local self-government. Today I'm reading in the media at PGG going into a big lockdown that means it's all closed, I'm just curious how it's going to make it possible to collect signatures if it's such a lockdown. So we will absolutely have local elections in each other's terms and other. The same way that the proposal is an amendment and a supplement we absolutely support, but the experience says the following. Every time there's a change and a supplement going this fast, then it's the Law of Local Elections, it's because of someone. I wonder who we're going to call this lex. We had lex Vlahušić, I'm very interested in who we're going to call this law, whose name is going to be next to this law and lex which, or you just decided to discipline the bastards in your own ranks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u43987	All right, break's approved. Comrade Troscott, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u43988	I am looking for the President of the Croatian Parliament on behalf of the Club MOST for a 10 minute break to further consult on the first point on local elections. So what we're voting on today is actually sending a message of the atmosphere of legal uncertainty and intransparency for a reason that changes the laws a month before the election, or who changes the rules for the game that will take place in a month. Which means we're leaving large questionnaires behind this law especially because of the time period a month ago. Secondly, regarding these elections, we see everything happening around the Croatian judiciary that certain people socialise with judges together, drink, break, mess with each other, and on the other hand they are powerful, they are influential and can affect political or legal decisions, and then in that sense, the Croatian judiciary should first and foremost be dealt with, and then we should go to local elections for the reason that the small man does not have such benefits legally as some powerful and influential people in the Republic of Croatia have. And three, what is the same big problem are the different criteria and inequality of legislative practice in terms of different elections, so one rule applies to the president, another Europarliamentary election, the third one for the Croatian Parliament, the fourth one for local elections, which further confirms the need to send with this law a month before the election a very uncertain message and the atmosphere of legal uncertainty and intransparency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u43989	You've been granted a break, too. Now, my colleague Sacic will explain his request.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u43990	Thank you, Mr. President. I am looking for a break on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club and it will be enough for 5 minutes to consult on the non-admission of our amendment regarding further tightening, a more restrictive approach to the banning of candidates in local elections or on the functions of mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors, and their deputies, and they have already been legally confirmed the charge of serious criminal offences committed with a direct intention or if a judgment has already been brought against them. In fact, such an attitude is not contrary to the views of our Constitutional Court or of the European Court of Human Rights and we believe that it is deeply reasonable and that, in line with the expectations of the Croatian public, which does not want thieves, criminals and paedophiles, corrupt people to run and they want a clean situation and that finally our voters have the right to choose clean, honest people, capable of being such, and we ask our officers, from officers and tenants, not to conduct criminal proceedings against them, and here is the absurd situation in this case, such people could also be running to even deal with public policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u43991	Stanka's been approved to you, too. Now, my colleague Bošnjakovic will explain the request, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u43992	Thank you very much, Mr. President. And on behalf of the HDZ Club, I would ask for a break to further consult and discuss some issues concerning the Law on Elections in Local Self-Government. In fact, the fact is that it is actually this point of voting and the elections are ahead of us for a little more than a month and we all pointed out in the debate, that we should have actually with these changes ic earlier. However, on the other hand, in the debate, we pointed out that this law is good, that this law leaves out one principle where it actually prevents the running for those people who are convicted of precisely certain crimes listed in a catalogue that is in the law. This is where it goes wider, and now it's not a crime that's being said here, but every one that's been punished for a certain crime and sentenced to a 6-month sentence. and that this punishment was replaced by a conditional sentence or by a work for the greater good. That's what we said, and we said step forward. However, we have all worked hard and there have been a number of amendments to fix this law, to comply with the Constitution, because the Constitution also prescribes all equal electoral rights and to choose, but also to run in elections. So there are certain amendments that we wanted to find some balance, so we'd like to look at these things a little bit more. In any case, there is no obstacle that if we agree on the law of someone, and here at the plenary room we have shown in fact a high degree of consent, that we do not bring it no matter what it is done and a month before the local elections. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u43993	Okay. And your break is approved. Is anyone else picking up? If not, then we'll get the article. 293 b) The Rules of Procedure shall continue with the vote. Therefore, it is up to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Local Elections, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 128. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by representative Zeljko Sačić, Center and GLAS Representatives Club, SDP Representatives' Club, Arsen Bauk and HDZ Representatives' Club. The review of the amendments has been submitted by electronic means, and we have conducted the statement earlier in the session, and we will vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept. The first amendment is the HDZ Representatives' Club, it has been accepted and becomes an integral part of the bill. The second amendment, MP Zeljko Sacic, the government does not accept it, and we must vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. Amendment No. 3 HDZ representatives clubs have been accepted and become an integral part of the bill. Amendments No. 4 and 5, these are amendments to the Club of Representatives of the SDP and the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, they are identical, the Government accepts them in an amended form with which the applicants agreed, and they become an integral part in this form of the bill. Amendment No. 6 Arsena Bauka Government does not accept, so we must vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? Nor did this amendment receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. 7 HDZ representatives' clubs have been accepted, becoming an integral part of the bill. Amendments 8 and 9, the SDP Representatives' Club and the Centre and GLAS's Club, are identical content, the government accepts them in an amended form, the applicants agreed, and they become an integral part of the bill's amendment. Amendment No. The 10 Arsena Bauka Government does not accept, so we must vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Now we're going to vote on the bill. I'm stressing that it's consistent with the article. 252. The Rules of Procedure of the HS for the adoption of this law require a semi-half majority of all MPs, i.e. 76. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Elections. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I find that 118 MPs and MPs voted, 115 for, 3 against and thus passed the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44237	Here's a good morning, dear colleagues and colleagues, we move on with our work. As announced, the first item is the declaration of amendments. First statement on amendments to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. The first amendment of the honourable representative Marin Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44238	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Appreciable MPs and MPs. Amendment No. 109/1 per article. The fourth law is not accepted. The Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures provides for provisions on the appointment and duration of the mandate, the conditions for appointment and obstacles. The applicant appreciates the excessive law to prescribe technical details of the implementation of the public call. In addition, I note that the Government Act provides that the Government shall, by way of conclusion, regulate the tasks of the authorities of the State administration and on the basis of this legal basis, draw the conclusion of the draft text of the public call and shall be entrusted to the competent authority for the implementation of the procedure. The text of a public call sets out the basis for the implementation of the call, the conditions that applicants must satisfy, documents and evidence that need to be attached and the time limit and address for the delivery of applications and the following, shows that the basic set of transparency is satisfied before the official notice in the National Journal itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44239	Thank you. A review, please, of the Honorable Representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44240	To be clear, the government has rejected my amendment, which has been prescribed by the Government in the process of running candidates for members of the State Commission for the Control of Public Purchase Procedures of the Sea, what? To publish a public call in the National Journal and that a public call cannot last more than 15 days or more than 30 days. My colleagues and colleagues, the amendment I have proposed is a minimum of the legality of a public call. In almost all the laws governing a public call, we have provisions on where a public invitation is made public and how long it may take, so that we can say that a public call is indeed available to all who are interested in a public duty or service. We in Croatia have constitutional provisions and constitutional provisions guaranteeing all citizens of the Republic of Croatia the availability of all public services and duties on equal terms and conditions and these constitutional guarantees cannot be realised if the invitation and invitation to tender are not published in appropriate and accessible places. That's logic. I am disappointed that the ministry and the government have failed to comply with the Republic of Croatia's constitution, which they have shown by rejecting this amendment. I therefore request a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44241	Okay. Amendment No. Two of the same MPs, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44242	Thank you very much. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the Additional Art. 12.a) it is regulated that, in the justified cases provided for by this law, the Government may appoint an acting member, a Member of the State Commission, in order to ensure the continuity of decision-making within the legal time limits or to propose to the Croatian Assembly the appointment of the acting member of the Commission until he returns to office in the event of his longer justified prevention of duties. The officials of office shall be appointed for a shorter period in order to allow for the law to be established in the exercise of that duty, the replacement of a full member and the temporary conduct of the duties, not the appointment of a mandate, for which a public call should be made. The Institute of Officers serves to overcome in a short time a period of lack of commission members so that the commission can decide in complaints in all three councils. Given that public calls last for an average of 15 to 30 days and after their completion it is necessary to carry out the selection procedure, it is divorce that it is possible that, until the end of the public call and the selection of candidates and references in the government procedure and then in the parliamentary procedure, there may be circumstances why the performer should have been appointed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44243	It's a sign of a representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44244	I'm a really incurable optimist, I was convinced that at least one amendment would pass me by, but I'm going to explain it to the Croatian public. In the light of the amendment, I wrote that the provision of a new member was added. 12 (a) paragraph 1 is unclear, vague and insufficiently reasoned, as well as motives for its proposal and adoption. It is contrary to the fundamental intensities of the legislator to which the State Commission is responsible for its work and that the Government can appoint members of the State Commission, even if it is acting. In addition, respected colleagues, colleagues, with a public call as an important assumption of valid candidacy, the integrity of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is maintained and then indirectly the State Commission. Since the question in the public, the way candidates are chosen since the lack of a public call implies that the government has reached a concrete candidate, informally and cannot agree to any arguments that would lead us to the situation of sacrificing the transparency of election procedures for members of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. We can sacrifice everything, all but in a country where there is dissatisfaction, because of corruption, clientism, we in this honorable home, in the Croatian Parliament should promote just transparency and all together insist on transparency. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44245	Okay. The amendments to the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives follow. There you go, the obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44246	Thank you very much. Amendment to Art. Six is not accepted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44247	An observation on behalf of the club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44248	So here is whatever your argument, and additionally on the explanation of colleagues from the Bridge, we believe that there is no obligation that the State Commission has 9 members at all times, compared to certain times, and the Constitutional Court does not always have full composition and can make decisions. The decision of the State Commission will not be compromised if it has 8 or 7 members because it does not mean that there will be no 3 councils, as provided for by Article. 13. 2., but only that one or more members will be members of several councils at the same time, this stems from Article 2. 13. 3rd or Art. 13. 5. There is no reason not to choose the acting officer by the same procedure as the member because it is not a procedure that could endanger the work of the State Commission itself with its duration, especially in the light of the above, as regards the absence of an obligation for the State Commission to work fully at all times. We're looking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44249	Followed by the amendment of the representative of Maria Selak Rasudić, please. First amendment. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44250	Thank you very much. Is that Amendment 109? ... - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] The above-mentioned amendment is undefined and does not define which circumstances could be considered a conflict of interest in particular. We believe that preventing conflicts of interest between private and public interest in the exercise of public duty cannot depend solely on a return contract between employees who become a member of a commission and an employer who was employed before his appointment, but is already governed by legal regulations. And it is important to say that the law on the prevention of conflicts of interest applies to the presidents and vice-presidents and members of the State Commission. In addition, provisions relating to this issue, therefore, to prevent conflicts of interest, have already been integrated into the Public Procurement Act, Art. In 433 it is already prescribed when a member of the State Commission must be excluded from working in a specific case and one of these circumstances is also when a member is in a business relationship with a party in the process, which includes this particular circumstance. Furthermore, the General Administrative Procedure Act, which also applies to these appeal procedures, prescribes when an official who decides on a administrative matter, must or may be exempt from the procedure. I would further emphasise that the transitional and final provisions provided for, this law, are provided for by the Government of the Republic of Croatia within 6 months. as from the date of entry into force of the law, it shall bring into line the internal structure regulation of the State Commission and one of the reasons is that it is also the intention to clearly regulate the internal procedures of the members of the Commission in the event of the necessary exemption from work in a specific case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44251	A review of the MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44252	So, just this last thing you said, that the government's internal regulations will later be regulated, is the reason why I'm doing this in at least some way, so maybe even symbolically suggested as an amendment within the law because it's about an item in the law in Article. 7 d) an existing law where it is actually trying to warn that those who work as members of the procurement committee may later come into an opportunity to be in conflict of interest because, during the course of their duties, they will have the opportunity to decide on different applicants in the public procurement process which may have been both their previous or previous employees or someone with whom they have cooperated or may have worked for themselves. In this context, the return to work in these same persons, i.e. guaranteed place and continuation of a similar business environment, can lead to a conflict of interest and I believe that this could be more clearly and unequivocally and qualitatively resolved within the legal proposal itself. So I am staying on this amendment and I will ask it to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44253	Second amendment of the same representative, please welcome the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44254	Thank you. With regard to Art. 6th, the amendment is not accepted and the reasons are the same as the reasons for Amendment 109/1 relating to Article. 6th Representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44255	A review.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44256	So let me briefly explain, I'm not the only one, but more of us are the ones who warned about this article. Six. So, what's this about? In short, the word is that the whole procedure must also be transparent in the hands of the Parliament, not only when it comes to the election of the State Commission in the full term, but when it comes to exceptions that then lead to the duration of the term of office within a year. I therefore oppose this and other colleagues who have cited similar reasons here to move the commission out of the Parliament and out of the public procurement process at the time of the shorter term of office or prevention. Therefore, I will not accept this argument and I will ask that the amendment be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44257	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, second reading, P.Z. No. 109, the promoter is the Government, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by MP Marin Miletic, Green-left bloc representative club and representative Marija Selak Rasdic. We held the statement at a session earlier, so we will vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept. So the amendments to MP Miletic are first. 1st Amendment The Government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. 2. Once again, MP Miletic, the government does not accept him. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We are now going to the amendments to the club, i.e. only one amendment to the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, the government is not accepting it, so we must vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We are now going to vote on the amendments of attorney Maria Selak Rasdic, two are amendments. 1. The government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Now we will vote on Amendment No. 2, the same MPs, the government doesn't accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? Nor did this amendment receive the required number of votes. I am now voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I find that 119 MPs and MPs voted, 106 for, 6 abstentions and 7 against, and thus we passed the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44448	The amendment to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Competition Protection Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 107th, the motion is Government, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the HDZ Representatives' Club and MP Marija Selak Rasdic. We're going to the amendments, the representative of the esteemed Secretary of State Natasha Mikush Zigman. We're going with the amendments to the Legislative Committee. Here's the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44449	Thank you very much. The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44450	When it's accepted, it becomes an integral part of the law. Next up is the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44451	The amendment is also accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44452	It becomes an integral part of the law. ... And two. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Second amendment. Both of you, all right. And follow the amendments by Maria Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44453	... in a way that the words of the parent societies and their legal and economic followers are replaced by the words of the parent society and its legal and economic followers, which is aligned with the terminology of the rules in commercial societies, since the concept of the parent company is generally accepted in the comments of the Law on Commercial Society and in the practice of national courts and courts in the EU. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44454	It's an open-and-shut statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44455	So I can accept this argument. The thing is that termology was offered in this legislative proposal... Parents were unacceptable, and this term also exists, which you stated in the existing legislation, so he is one of the ones I was considering when I proposed the amendment, so I will accept the valid explanation and withdraw this amendment from the vote. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44456	2. Amendment of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44457	With regard to Art. 8 this amendment is also accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44458	He accepts. It's becoming an integral part. Amendment 3 Amendment 3. [[I thank you, I find it unusual. /]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44459	Art. Nine. The amendment shall not be accepted with an explanation as follows. The prevailing influence doesn't have to be just under this law. Defining therefore the Law on the Protection of Competition and Council Regulation 139/2004 on concentration control, as well as the Law on Takingover of Shareholders to which, which is mentioned in the amendment applies only to shareholders and the Law on the Protection of Competition, i.e. competition law or competition law and concentration control, apply also to companies with limited liability and to a joint venture of two or more entrepreneurs. Following this, it would be incorrect to include the proposed invitation to the Act on the takeover of stock companies and, therefore, the amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44460	A review of the MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44461	So we were on our way. It was a little too good for the early morning. So, what I suggested to be in art. 19th century 3 and 4 after the word “overcoming influence” add the words“ to the foundation of the Law on the takeover of stock companies. ” This was to install a provision defining the prevailing influence by the Act on the acquisition of stock companies as lex specialis. As the proposed law of the article does not define how this prevailing influence is defined, since I believe it should have been defined, I will ask that the amendment be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44462	4th Amendment of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44463	With regard to Art. 11, the amendment is not accepted as a consequence of this Article of the Competition Protection Agency’s status in line with the relevant tasks, as noted during the debate, AZTN has the power to determine ex-ante structural measures in the process of assessing the concentration of entrepreneurs, e.g. determine the sale of shares or shares of entrepreneurs, then draw up final draft sublegislative acts, as implementing acts adopted by the Government, provide expert opinions to sectoral regulators for individual markets related to ex-ante regulation of those markets, which is explicitly stated in the specific laws of those sectors, give an expert opinion on the compliance of applicable laws and other rules with the Law on the Protection of Competition, and this position is confirmed in the expert literature of administrative law experts.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44464	The Honored Representative Oh, I'm sorry. [[Intruder: In relation.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44465	In view of the requirement that AZTN should have reasonable priorities, AZTN is empowered to adopt a solution rejecting an initiative to initiate the procedure under its official duty, which, after considering its content, AZTN does not consider to be a priority in the work. As a rule, AZTN will be able to make such a solution if, during the previous examination of the situation on the relevant market, it is not considered to be a significant distortion of competition. The applicant of the initiative, of course, has the right to appeal to initiate an administrative dispute. In addition, AZTN is required to explain each of its solutions, including the one in which the initiative is rejected, and priorities in the work are listed in the work programme, in the report submitted to HS and are primarily focused on difficult restrictions on competition, such as cartels or abuses of the ruling position, promotion of knowledge of competition law and on monitoring of current developments in European law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44466	It's an open-and-shut statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44467	I talked a lot about this during the debate, so I'm going to take this opportunity to explain again what it is because I think it's an important thing. In fact, what I see as a fundamental problem is not the fact that the Agency becomes and defuses the regulatory body, so it defines its status in a way that may belong to it and under its powers. Two things are controversial. The first is that we do not have a clear definition of what should be a regulatory body, and this should be regulated in some way legally, so as to prevent the flood of different agencies that will seek a similar status for themselves, and the other thing is that, if the status of the agency is being detected, so that it is both AZTN and the agency in which we have great hope and faith that it will regulate the system and market in Croatia that is really facing a number of problems, especially in the case of cartels that are not being discovered at all, it should, if it changes its status after more than 20 years, make such a clear explanation to HS, in particular given that it is not easy to explain what it is, and which is not a regulatory body, and yet it was not properly regulated by such an amendment. Thus, such a change in the status of any body cannot be colluded through the law so as to wait for someone in the Assembly to notice or not to notice it, but must be clearly and unequivocally explained to the MPs so that they can accept it. For this very reason, I will be asked to vote on that amendment, although I have no objection to the Agency being and clearly defined as a regulatory body.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44468	5th Amendment of the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44469	With regard to Art. 32 also, the amendment is not accepted. Namely, the notion of income on the world level or on the world market, as defined by the proposal, the final draft of the law marks the total global income in the financial year for which annual financial reports are concluded, i.e. in the year preceding the infringement or decision establishing a violation of the rights for which a fine has been imposed. This concept is already used by the current law to determine the calculation of the income threshold as one of the two cumulative conditions that need to be met, and the Council Regulation 139/2004 on concentration control, as well as the directive to which this law is now in line, adopts, or harmonises and lists the notion of income at global level.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44470	Next
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44471	It's about the amendment to the article. 32., Art. 32. 61st, the word “world level” is replaced by the word “consolidated base”. It is, in fact, that the term “world level” is not an accounting term or that I believe that this concept would be clearer and more acceptable under this bill. In that sense, I will put the abovementioned amendment to the vote. And as far as the laws and amendments you have adopted are concerned in general, I would like to give one last final warning in this address that we should implement the meaning of the directive, not directly translate and transfer their content, so what we need first to be in view is the spirit of the law and all existing rules within which the directive is implemented to avoid such mistakes as we found in this legislative proposal in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44472	I thank the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44473	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Competition Protection Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 107, the motion is Government, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the HDZ Representatives' Club and MP Marija Selak Rasdic. We had a statement earlier at the session, so before we moved on to vote on the amendments, a colleague of the coat of arms called for a break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44474	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, I am looking for a break to discuss a single problem that is related to one aspect of market failure and the fact of why there are even laws relating to the protection of competition. Those laws are for the people. Because of people who need to ensure that the market works, not that we have serious market disturbances. And we in Croatia today have a serious market disturbance and this serious drug market disturbance. The problem is reflected in the daily lives of citizens and citizens of the country in a way that drug distribution is at risk due to market failure. People cannot come to something they need for their life and health. I can't be treated. And no, this problem is not on the air, as Mr Plenkovic said today. This problem is real and this problem is systemic. Why? Because of the failure of the market and the lack of health reform, Croatia periodically pumps hundreds of millions or more of kunas into the system every year, and the system still does not work. We pump up a billion kuna a few months ago, pump up a billion kuna a few days ago, and there's no supply. Drugs don't come to citizens. So it's a system problem, it's a problem that's going to happen over the next few months again, and we're going to have to drop billions of kuna again if we don't systematically solve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44475	Thank you very much. The apartment is approved. Now for the break, too, the explanation of the break will come from colleague Sandra Bencic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44476	I thank you on behalf of the Green-Left Block Club, we are looking for a 10-minute break to discuss once again how much these amendments and additions to the Competition Protection Act can contribute to the fact that non-functioning of the market in terms of the distribution of medicines, the purchase of medicines and the issue of the price of medicines can be effectively regulated on that market in the situation we have today. So we consider this only one step, one lever that should contribute to making medicines more accessible and affordable, but also what is most important that they are physically available to all those who need them at this point. We find it extremely inappropriate and in fact incredible that the prime minister declares that this problem does not exist in a situation where employees and directors of the General Hospital Zabok, who have been in the drug supply blockade for two days already, are not delivered to them, when we have clear messages from the hospital in Split that they do not have medicines for cancer patients, when you have statements from cancer patients who have been told by doctors that unfortunately medicines cannot be given to them. So, the problem is clear, the problem exists, by denying it we won't solve it, and you can't, as the prime minister has told oncology patients today that they're lying, you can't tell the citizens that they're lying about not being able to get to the medication, you can't tell it to the hospital directors, you can't tell it to doctors. This law will not solve a problem that you haven't solved for many years, but we won't solve that major part of the problem, which is that you are unable to manage the health system, that you haven't implemented their reform and that you haven't solved the key issue of possibilities, the common possibilities of obtaining medicines with other EU countries in order for their price to be lower. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44477	Thank you very much. The apartment is approved. Is anyone else picking up? No, I don't. Then according to the article. 293.b. We're moving on, we've got amendments. The first is the Committee on Legislatives, which has been adopted and becomes an integral part of the final draft law. We have two amendments to the HDZ Club of Representatives, and the first and second amendments have been accepted, so they too become an integral part of the final bill. And we have five more amendments to MP Selak Rasdic, the first one not accepted, has been withdrawn, so we don't need to vote on him. The second is accepted, so it becomes an integral part of the final bill. The third is not accepted and we must vote on him. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. 4. The amendment again by MP Selak Rasdic, the government does not accept its amendment. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. And we go to the last 5th amendment, the government doesn't accept it, we vote again. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? Nor did this amendment receive the required number of votes. I am now voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Competition Protection Act. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? It voted 119 MPs and MPs, 110 for and 9 abstentions, and thus passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Competition. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Energy Efficiency Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 101. The promoter is a government. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. The proposing representative accepted them during the debate and they become an integral part of the final draft law. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Energy Efficiency Act. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I find that 118 MPs and MPs voted, 115 for and 3 abstentions, and thus passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Energy Efficiency Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44598	The next item of the agenda is: - Proposal for a Decision declaring the year 2021 "The year of Mark Marulić" Proposer: The Committee on Education, Science and Culture is proposed by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture on the basis of Article. 159. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee. I ask Committee President Vesna Bedeković to give an introductory explanation of the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44599	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Proposal for a Decision declaring 2021 to mark Marulić, the Education, Science and Culture Committee, on the basis of 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall be submitted in the capacity of the Proposer. Namely, the Office of the President of the Croatian Parliament sent the Committee a proposal by the Education and Education Agency and the Society of Croatian Language Professors proposing that the period from 22 April 2021 to 22 April 2022 be declared "Judit" by Mark Marulic. In the same way, taking into account the exceptional importance and equally the role of Marulić as the most valuable Croatian medieval writer and creator of the first epic in Croatian is certainly the classics of Christian literature and certainly one of the most famous European humanists, the Office of the President of the Croatian Parliament has proposed to the Committee on Education, Science and Culture that just respecting the whole of Marulić's literary opus, the proposal for the 2021th Year of Mark Marulić, and in considering this proposal, the Committee has held the written opinions of the Ministry of Science and Education, the Ministry of Culture and Media and the Institute for Croatian Language and Publicities, and at its meeting held on 10 March, the Committee pointed out that during this year's discussion that it has been marked 500 years since the publication "Judi", the first book of Marulić in Croatian language and the first language, which was published in Croatia's first edition of the Croatian language. and, of course, testifys as such about the important place of Croatian culture in the European frameworks. In this context, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture unanimously supported the proposal of the Office of President of the Croatian Parliament for the Declaration 2021. "The year of Marko Marulić" and in this sense, the committee members consider it to be a valuable initiative aimed primarily at promoting the value of Marulic's literary opus, as well as promoting his important role in the national literary fund, as well as promoting the exceptional and widely recognised Marulic's importance in the history of Croatian language and certainly the rooting of Croatian literature in the European cultural context. And in this regard, here is the fact that all the board members unanimously supported this initiative, I call on you, too, to support that in 2021, Mark Marulic is declared "the year". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44600	Here's a few replicas. Dear Representative Arsen Bauk, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44601	Thank you. Dear President of the Committee, you have very detailedly explained the proposal and I agree with the explanation and support the proposal to declare the year "The year of Mark Marulić" and I have reported on the replica not because of Marko Marulic but because of the fact that it is basically, but is now "The year of Mark Marulic". Namely, as we are in the election year, then many units of local self-government, which came close to this COVID add-on, are already doing so because they usually provide aid 500 kn before the elections that Mark Marulic's character is, so they are also politically spending "The Year of Mark Marulić" and then when we have national elections, there can also be "The Year of Ante Starcevic" with 1000 kuna. Therefore, this does not go to Mark Marulic, of course, this goes to those demagogues that use citizens' money for pre-election purposes to improve their electoral prospects. And Marko Marulic is only on the 500 kuna bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44602	All right, next replica, distinguished representative. You want to answer that? [[Intruder Bedeković: I would answer.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44603	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, I thank you for your replica, however, here is your political behaviour and the collection of equally cheap points at the expense of the father of Croatian literature, Marko Marulić, there is no need to comment either.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44604	The next replica, the esteemed representative of Rada Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44605	Dear colleagues, of course, and the club will support it even though we have already moved away in this year but unfortunately, it is no surprise, we have not read some of the reports here since 2018, and here we have recently chosen a new attorney general without the fact that the report for 2019 and 2020 has not been heard, but I am a little concerned by one of your syntagmas which does not exist in the classification of Croatian literature. You called it Christian literature, as far as I know, Marko Marulić belongs to Croatian literature, you once said, of course, in the Middle Ages or in the Middle Ages, so I don't think something should suddenly change a whole concept like this, so you should look at how the classification in the history of Croatian literature stands.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44606	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44607	Ljubomir Mastrovic called Mark Marulić an encyclopaedist of Christian philosophy and the most famous writer in Europe. If he could and could have been a Christian philosopher, it could have been Christian literature, so there really is nothing embarrassing or questionable about it, it is also cultural of that time, and I think that such positioning or emphasising it is actually counterproductive and pointless.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44608	Okay, this was a correction to an incorrect quote. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44609	Thank you very much. My colleagues, I took note of your suggestion, just to explain here that in my opening presentation I had contextualized, so Mark Marulić as a writer of my time, more than I pointed out that in my opinion "Judita" was a European bestseller of that time, and when we talk about 1501, when "Judita" was written and after it was printed, the context of that era speaks for itself and, of course, when I spoke about Christian literature, so that expression was neither brought nor brought, nor was it directed to bring him into any kind of relationship with any ideology but a real reflection of the time in which Marulić lived and created. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44610	Next replica, the esteemed representative of Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44611	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here is a distinguished colleague, before us the proposal of the Office of the President of the Croatian Parliament for the declaration of "Mr. Marko Marulić" and I believe that this is a commendable proposal and we must do everything we can to popularise Mark Marulić, through Marko Marulić and his creative opus, as well as promoting Croatian literature and Croatian language. Do you think that we Croats are proud enough to mark not only Mark Marulić but all the significant Croats who created the Croatian state in which we live today happy and proud? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44612	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44613	Thank you very much, dear colleague on the line. Of course I do, and of course I agree with you, our Croatian cultural heritage is the heritage that we inherited, which we inherit from our ancestors, it is our identity and by what we are, and so if we wanted to single out Mark Marulic as a special personality in the entire play of Croatian giants, then I will go back to the context in which he created and wrote, and I will say that Marulić as a typical humanist of his day, most of his works were written in Latin language, taking into account the context in which he lived, however, he left one significant part of his occupation in Croatian and for this very reason we consider him not only as the father of Croatian literature but also one of the Croatian giants in whom we should certainly mark him.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44614	Thank you, colleague. Do the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? The Legislative Committee? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. ... There's someone else's mask left. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] The first to discuss is the Advocacy Club Mosta, a respected representative of Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44615	My colleagues and fellow MPs. 500 years ago, in 1521 Marulic's Judith was printed in Venice. Versi hrvatska complex, it says, 5 hundred years ago, a large, round, beautiful anniversary. Today is 9.4. Why are we discussing this year as the year of Mark Marulic on April 9th? Well, I'm surprised that on the 29th, we didn't think of a two-day downfall of this Marulic year, not just eight months like now. Why does it have to be proposed by someone who is not obliged to follow and do it, and did not come up with the Ministry of Culture or the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts? What is HAZU Institute for History of Croatian Literature, within the literature class? Why didn't they think of that a year, a year and a half ago? Now they've come up with a fixation when it's from someone, I repeat, who wasn't obliged and who remembered that it's been about 500 years since the printing of the first epic in the Slavic, original epic in the Slavic world at all. Five hundred years. I remember as a child when there were two centuries of Wolfs, it was from lighters to, then Yugoslavia was still, from lighters to television shows, two centuries of Wolfs. In Italy, 700 years of Dante's death is marked, a serious project that's been going on for years, every day on Italian national television, you have something on Dante. Do you think on HTV this year that the best Croatian actors will read the fractions of Judith and that perhaps the whole of Judith in this year will be read in this way? You may think so. When HS 9.4. decides that the year is declared the year of Mark Marulic. It's like remembering your wife's anniversary 20 after a day after she passed. When they saw what they did, and I repeat, to me most responsibly, I will not call the promoters, the Ministry of Culture and the HAZU. When they saw that they had forgotten, that they had disrupted the 500 years of printing of Judah, they said, come on, it does not begin that year 1.1, but begins on the 22nd, because on that day it is 20 years earlier, 1501. Marulic finished Judith. That's a lame excuse. Here, let's say it's okay, but what can be done now from 9.4. to 22? This is one first-class cultural and national scandal, that in this way refers to the basic anniversary, 500 years, half a millennium of round, Croatian literature and Croatian identity. I repeat, the works where Marulic himself explicitly writes that this history of Judith's version is Croatian complex. What now? Could it be used this year with a good preparation, and I would really like to hear from the Ministry of Culture if anything was too much to be prepared about, to popularize Marulic's work, so here, if not every Croat will take Judith, especially in this old edition to read, but at least to develop that awareness that 500 years ago something happened that in the coming decades and centuries further built and upgraded and where we were built as a nation because the people did not only defend the army and the rifle. It's an army and a gun, but these are the things that make us who we are, which makes us not someone else, but who we are. A first-class and cultural and national scandal for which someone has to answer. I will repeat again, first of all, the Ministry of Culture and the Department of Literature, more precisely the Institute for History of Literature of the HAZU.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44616	This culture attempt will not go undetected. I will remind you of the hodogram of all these events that have resulted in the Assembly declaring the Year of Mark Marulic, though, almost halfway through that same year, but we will say better ever than ever to be well-intentioned. I will remind you of the hodogram to see what the Ministry of Culture feels about the father of Croatian literature and how it treats the anniversary that is 500 years old. So this bypass isn't an accident. It is therefore that the Agency for Education and Education and the Society of Croatian Language Professors proposed to HS that the period from April 22nd to April 22nd 2020 declare the year Mark Marulic, but in the year Judita Mark Marulic. HS was wide-ranging, so he decided that it would not be just the Year of Mark Marulić and his Judith, but the whole of Marko Marulić, respecting the importance he has, not only in Croatian literature but also in creating the identity of the Croatian people. However, on the proposal to declare the year of Judita Mark Marulić, almost undetectedly passed a reaction from the Ministry of Culture which said that it did not dispute that it was justified during 2021 to encourage and support the events of different formats that would focus attention on Marulic's Judith but, as now, in 2021, it was declared in the Year of Reading, it is the opinion that the marking of the 500 anniversary of the publication of Judite should be included in as many activities and programmes planned within the Year of Reading. So, the Marulic subject to the Year of Reading. Are you kidding? Do you think there's not a single culturally-aware person in this country that won't declare this the same culture? Every year may be, or should be a year of reading, but it is one year which is 500 anniversary of Marulić's Judite and subject Marulić and his Judit's Year of Reading is an unknown Croatian literary heritage, its ignoring that already enters the sphere of obscenity and culture, especially when it comes from the Minister of Resorship. In fact, listen further, “an announcement of multiple years dedicated to a greater number of significant persons or phenomena, ” some there, some of which, therefore, necessarily reduces the acuity of insight and fragments the public’s attention. So, says the minister, she's afraid that all her years of reading would not fall into another plan if someone dares to declare this year Marulic's "Judit". And I further quote this: “We believe that the anniversary of the work of Mark Marulić can also be displayed in other ways. ” What will one Marulic do, what will the father of Croatian literature do with his age? Let's say they offer the special patronage of the Parliament, let someone else do it there, or a special cultural mark, nicely 500 years of Marulic's "Judit" that would carry some manifestations, so one badge can get Marko Marulic and thus gain visibility. Leave me my year of reading, and stay away from Marko Marulić, for him you are 500 years old and we may be able to celebrate the millennium, but until then, if we continue this kind of cultural policy, we expect that no one will even know who Marko Marulic was. This is what the ministry thinks of Mark Marulic and the fact that he should have his age and it went completely unnoticed in the Croatian public, which is a first-rate disgrace. We can now also talk about some other paradoxes, for example, the fact that the same government that declared and remembered the announcement of December 30th of the Year of Reading has completely forgotten that Marulic's anniversary is coming and that the same majority now suggests, despite the opinion of the Ministry of Culture, that this is the year Mark Marulic. So this poor Croatia will now have to suffer from having two anniversarys that will have to compete for public attention. And when we talk about the reading strategy, I'm going to remind you that this strategy promotes, revision of the book list with the aim of expanding the reader's audience and the pleasure that would play an unforgiving role in it. Therefore, it is a modern strategy which is not aimed at revitalising the maintenance of Croatian literary tradition, but at raising unmade and not building the taste of minors, I want to read about it. Reading is there for content, reading does not increase as they say emotional intelligence and tolerance if you read "Mein Kampf", reading increases knowledge of Croatian language if you read "Judita". So, reading is there for Marko Marulić, not Marko Marulić for reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44617	The next debate is on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club of Representatives, the distinguished representative of Hrvoja Zekanovic. He's gone, he's losing his right. The next club of representatives is SDP and distinguished representative Ivana Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44618	The Honorable Vice President of HS. My colleagues and colleagues. As we have had the opportunity to hear today, the proposal for a decision between April 22, 2021 and April 22, 2022. Announcing the Year of Mark Marulic. This is the proposal that came from the proposal of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, and on the proposal of the Office of the President of the HS. And it is not without reason because we have all heard that this year is marked 500 years since the printing of the first authorial book in the Croatian language "Judit" Mark Marulić, a prominent Croatian writer who was named "The Father of Croatian Literature". This term “The Father of Croatian Literature” means much more than what is in the reasoning of this decision, but it is really sad to talk here today about declaring the year of Mark Marulić a period between two days of the Croatian book. Whether it's an accident or not, we'll analyze it later, but I believe we'll try to save what we save that. Namely, by decision of HS in 1996. On April 22nd, the day of the Croatian book is marked as a symbolic act of memory of Mark Marulić, as a symbolic act of remembering the author of the first artistic epic of Croatian literature sung in the Croatian language of the famous "Judi" completed in Split, just as he himself said in recital 22.4.'501. It is certainly that "Judita" Marko Marulić is a capital work for Croatian cultural identity, it is certainly written in '501. that was issued in Venice '521, but is it questionable what Marko Marulić and "Judita" mean in Croatian society today? It is questionable what it means today to read "Judita" and where "Juditu" should read because my opinion that it should be read intensively at school, that it should have a good space in the curricula because it forms a national identity. If the Italians know who Dante is, if the Germans know who Goethe is at all times our citizens must know who Marko Marulic is. And it is hard to believe that it was indeed a tendency for Mr Mark Marulić, or "Judi" Mark Marulić, to be a year between two days of the Croatian book. It is more to believe that the year of Mark Marulic was really going to be from 1.1 to 31.12.2021. Because we have so commonly declared years in HS so far, and this is not the first time we have encountered the subject of declaring some year after the famous Croats, 2006. "The year Nikola Tesla", then "The year Nikola Šubić Zrinski", "The year Ruđera Boskovic", Juraj Križanić, Marina Držić, and not to count further. They were full of years, years in which one of the individuals gave extraordinary meaning. Today we will support this decision, we will support it because it is extremely important for Croatian history and Croatian cultural and literary identity that Marko Marulić has his own year. It is important that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia know his outstanding contribution in Croatian history and it is interesting that Marko Marulić is one of the 30 famous Croats who are recognized among the people as guardians of the memory of history and culture. Marulic's works are special, they are translated into Italian, Spanish, Portuguese, French, English and German. He had the status of one of the greatest Christian writers. Among the famous Marulic readers were Saints Franjo Xaverski, Franjo Saleski, Ignacija Loyol, French Queen Margaret Navarska, English King Henry VIII. And his Chancellor Thomas More. Mark Marulić was read in the past, Mark Marulić I hope we will read in the future. For national literature is the most important author of the Bible song "Judita" originally written for the Split and Croatian regiments. As we have already said several times here in HS today, it is the first epic in Croatian in our literature and the beginning of a rich period of poetry in Croatian. Marko Marulic himself wrote that "Judita" is a work to be read while it is Croatian, while it is Croatian. And what she would like to say at the very end on behalf of the SDP Club that will support this decision may think she's late, but better late than ever. We would like to remind you that despite the fact that, as I said earlier, HS has declared for many years by Croatian scientists and giants, by figures significant in Croatian history, this here in HS left no trace except for the dead letter on the paper on which the decision lies. We would therefore suggest that somewhere in the building HS we find a wall on which we would present all the records of these famous people who were voted in HS because of the importance and who in Croatian history received a year bearing their name. So we believe that we would also contribute to the further popularization of their character and work because we know that when we step out of the curved crisis HS becomes open to our fellow citizens and thus getting to know the history of parliaments, but also history, and Croatian history, we meet with celebrities. It would be nice for children, elementary school students and high school students to come along with the father of Croatian history and the father of Croatian literature Marko Marulić. Here is our additional contribution to the debate on the declaration of "The Year of Mark Marulic" which the SDP Club supports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44619	The following is the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative of Rada Simicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44620	Thank you, Vice President HS, colleagues and colleagues, viewers and viewers. Here is the proposal for a decision to declare 2021. "The year of Mark Marulić". Proposal on the declaration of "The Year of Mark Marulić" by the Office of the President of the HS Committee on Education, Science and Culture, and on the proposal of the Agency for Education, Education, Science and the Association of Croatian Language Professors, which proposes the declaration "The Year of Mark Marulić". At its 11th session held on 10 March 2011, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture unanimously supported the proposal of the Office of the President of the HS for the Declaration 2021. "The year of Marko Marulić" because the committee believes it is an extraordinary initiative aimed at promoting the value of Marulic's literary opus, his important role in the National Literary Fund, the exceptional and well-recognized Marulić's importance in Croatian history, as well as the roots of Croatian literature in the European cultural context. The literary legacy of Marko Marulić is extensive and diverse, including works in verse and prose, is a complement and collections of instructions for practical life, moral theological and cultural historical discussions, sermons, dialogues, stories, songs and epics. The main literary source, Mark Marulic, was "The Bible". In his entire opus, a spreader and interpreter of the basic Bible plantations of Christian morality are occupied. With deep religiousism and lasting proclivity to the concise message, it was evident that humanism, education and the breadth of interest, literature, history, archaeology, politics, law, painting. Most of Marulic's works are prose writings of religious, educational, moral, and theological content. According to the General Court, Marulić is the most important Croatian writer of the 15th and 16th centuries and of the national classics, and in a recent era beyond Croatian borders, he recognises as a prominent representative of European Christian humanism and Renaissance epics. The importance of making the proposed decision is the fact that this year is marked 500 years since the printing of the first author's book in the Croatian language of Marulic's "Judit". By the way, Marko Marulić was born in Split on August 18th, 1450, died on January 5th, 1524. He studied Padova and spent his whole life in Split after completing his studies. Marulic tells of uncompromising defiance, the return of Christ's teaching, the hypocrisy, the sanctity and the luxury of church structures, demanding of priests the denial of earthly goods and pleasures, of the believers defilement and piety, and of one and the other god-fearing and upright life. "Judita" was completed on 22 April 1501 in Split. The void between the beginning and the first printing is full of 20 years, so “Judita” was published on 13 August 1501 in Venice and one of only two preserved copies of the first edition of “Judeti” is kept in the scientific library in Zadar. The song is the work of a worldly story about the heroic work of the widow of Judith, who saves the city of Bethulius from a foreign conqueror. The basic work of old Croatian literature, the first extensive poetry work in Croatian, was sung in the Chekavian diction, complex compositions and successful use of traditional means of epic technique, layered meanings and shaped by a successful double rhymed twelve verses that rely on the indigenous Croatian poetry tradition. The epic is not only the oldest but is one of the top achievements of all Croatian literature and can be measured by the world's best literary achievements of that time. So, Marulić since the stories of real song, artistic epic in Croatian to be understood by those who at that time were not always Italian and Latin books. In addition, Mark Marulić Kukuljevic called the father of Croatian literature. And if you'll just allow me a brief content of the world-wide story. So when Nebuchadnezzar, king of Assyria and Babylon took over the Medes, and other states with which he had not yet defeated, he told them to surrender. When the Jews did not agree to this, they were sent by an army headed by a military leader named Holoferne over 120,000 pedestrians and 12,000 horsemen. Holoferno surrounded the city of Bethulius, interrupted the water supply, and the city was plagued by thirst and thirst, and they waited to surrender. The city prince and his council decided to wait for God's help, so if God's help doesn't come within five days, they're ready to surrender. So that he would not do so, she rebuked them, and clothed them with the most beautiful garments, and took the maid, and came to Holofer's tent, with the exception that she would show him the easiest way to conquer the city. After she had drunk him, she cut off his head with her own sword and brought it to Bethuli as a trophy that was declared or hung on the city walls. Clearly, when the soldiers saw it, they ran away. At the same time, Split was also threatened by the Turks and that is why Marulic writes "Juditu" describing the courageous act of the woman. With this, he wants to send his fellow citizens a message that they are not afraid of Turks. So the point is, "Do not be afraid, my people." It is therefore necessary to bring the first Croatian author's book to the centre of the attention of all Croatian and European public in order to inspire and encourage us. We need to remind ourselves that we had the descendants of those brave and fruitful visionaries who, in the most difficult times of Turkish conquest and destruction of the Croatian country and people, had in front of the eyes of brave and free Croatia, just as the Jewish widow Judith had a vision of free and proud her homeland and achieved her consistency and resourceful love. We believe that it is not irrelevant with this love to link the courage and sacrifice of Croatian defenders in the recent Homeland War, in which the vision of the free and independent Croatian homeland was finally realized. We need such patterns today in front of the eyes and hearts of all of us. Taking into account the importance and role of Mark Marulić as Croatia's most valuable medieval writer, the author "Judit", the first epic in Croatian, the classics of Croatian literature and one of the most influential European humanists, the proposal of the Office of the President of the Croatian Parliament, the HDZ Club welcomes and supports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44621	The Green-left bloc's representatives' club, a respected representative, Rada Boric, follows.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44622	... My colleagues and colleagues. [[Specially enabled.]] Education is a priority and pride of the Republic of Croatia. Excuse me, Republic of Finland. That's what the basic strategic paper in education says. Once again, education is a priority and pride. As long as education is not a priority and pride, we will also forget the anniversary of the fathers of Croatian literature for 5 hundred years. Five hundred years old, there's not a single book in Finland that's five hundred years old. Kalevala, a national epic, was printed in the 19th century, and the first printed book was only in the 19th century and printed in Finland. However, Finland considers education, including, of course, literature and pride and the foundation of Finnish identity. And what does Finland do? It does not mark an anniversary every 100 years, 200 or 500 years, and it does not forget its fathers or mothers, nor its literature, nor its science. So Finland has a neat marking, an annual marking of all the significant people in Finland. So you also have the day of their father literature, the father of language, the Finnish language of Gregory, so who first translated the Bible into Finnish in '540, but you have all the other significant names of literature, where when the birthday of that writer is out on all Finnish buildings there are national flags. Imagine what it would look like on a birthday or if you wanted to, not just on a anniversary like this, but every year on the birthday of our significant writers, we would highlight the flag, which is the flag and literature and language and identity. Imagine that we have a flag on Mark Marulić's birthday, so if you want historically, to Krleža, we would probably agree on the most significant names of Croatian literature. And we're also talking here in Parliament about how, not only to preserve your identity, but here, this modern word, how to brand it. Come to Finland, for example. February 5th, when the day, too, is one great poet Runebergi, who himself collected folk poetry, but also that day you will be able to find in every pastry shop, in every restaurant, in every hotel Runebergi's cake prepared by his mother, even though you enroll Runeberg and Chuck, you will see what he looks like as a little barber. So you, not only that, but the day when it's the birthday of one of the prominent people, then, as my colleague used to say here today, so we're not going to read every day to Judith, we know what place it is, how we need to know Judith, but maybe for this anniversary, Judith could finally be filmed for why we're all paying national television, maybe a series. Maybe that's how Judith could get popular? Is there anyone on Croatian television and is there anyone in theirs, with a bunch of editors and plans that we might have been able to mark Judith like that? About one Runebergi, five hundred composers partially translated his poetry into another artistic language. What have we done about what we call popularization? We call someone a father, who we've completely forgotten, so maybe to remember a generation, you might remember a generation for the next five hundred years.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44623	The following are individual debates. The first is the distinguished representative Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44624	The language is the house of battle, the Croatian is my homeland. Where are you, the intellectuals of this call to defend this language and defend the father of Croatian literature? To point out the failures made by the restoring ministry that forgets the father of Croatian literature, and even when he mentions it, pushes him into another plan to implement some modern strategies? Where are you intellectuals of this summoning? The assembly room is empty. No one cares what this anniversary will be or what preceded it or how it will be held. That's not what HS always looked like. Ivan Kukuljević Sakcinski, Marulić, who was first in the edition of Stari scribes of Croatian, then, the Yugoslav Academy of Science and Arts, wrote an introductory study and held together with Vatroslav Jagić, Marulić's Croatian works for the first volume of the mentioned edition, which will be printed in 1869. Ivan Kukuljević Sakcinski who gave a historical speech, the first speech in Croatian in 1843 in the Parliament which he said, we see that if we only want to raise the peoples of languages we will not have any major shortcuts. It is up to us now to satisfy and introduce our people's wishes. He was a parliamentary representative, he wrote, Marulic wrote about Marulic. And the first thing he knew was that he needed to speak in Croatian. And today, almost no one. Where are you? Where are you? Where are you? Where are you exalted by the Israeli authorities? Where did you say the sweets of holy life? Where is he with understanding, where is all goodness? Mark Marulic sang in his Judas. Really, where are you? Whom should we keep that language for today, for whom we talk about Mark Marulić today and the way in which we mark this great anniversary when nobody in these benches is interested, and out of them should be a message that the largest and most important legislative body in this country recognized the importance of Mark Marulić. And not only his Jews, but his years. So who are we lying to, ladies and gentlemen? So if this House doesn't care, who are we going to sell the story to that Marulic is still important today? Marulic was accompanied by European fame at the same time. His De institution bene vivendi in the 17th and 18th century experienced 19 editions. Italian 12 translations and German 6 translations. Marko Marulic isn't just ours. He's ours as much as the world's. And because it's worldly, it's ours, and we can be proud of it. Marulic is a model of a culture, a spirituality for which survival and in unsettled times should be tried. He said about Marulic the great Peter Selem. It is because of Marulic, and despite the current cultural policy of the government, that we will continue to fight at least for both HS and Croatian public to have this anniversary and the work of the father of Croatian literature brought to life.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44625	We have two replicas. The first one is Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44626	Honorable MPs. You're wondering what the RES is doing. The RES, his own name speaks enough, the Ministry of Culture and Media, not to say the Ministry of Culture and Information or the Ministry of Culture and Propaganda, and will soon be renamed the Ministry of Love because they have been most intensely dealing with proposals to sanction hate speech. What this ministry is dealing with that ministry that should have thought about and which should have been addressed to the Assembly a year and a half ago and designed a comprehensive programme of activities and cooperation with other institutions in order to mark this magnificent 500-year anniversary of the printing of Judith. The Ministry of Culture does other things. Here, we will also have in the second reading of the Law on Electronic Media, which is not only the Law on Electronic Media but also the law on newer birth concepts which I fear will soon come under sanctions and Marulic's Judith as perhaps gender stereotype, politically incorrect, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44627	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44628	The Ministry of Culture focused on its pamphlet reading strategy. Of course, I think reading is important, I come from a generation that is the only content and only entertainment found right in the reading. However, reading is not for the sake of reading, but reading is precisely because of what we will consume by reading, which is the content that will ultimately contribute to us and make us better persons, more educated persons, etc. One of these contents, one of these developments, is one of those more difficult paths is Marulic's Judith. At first glance, however, it may be impervious to a teenager, but it is then up to the professor, to a quality education to bring that content and that language closer. Because no one would run 100 meters in the Olympic Games if he hadn't done the same thing every day, including with his tongue. We can't skip. ... Yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44629	Next replica of Ivana Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44630	I would like to thank the esteemed vice president of HS, dear colleague Selak Rasdic. Here you have well realized that the question for whom we will protect Mark Marulić, for whom we will guard our great Croatian writers. Well, we'll probably be saving them for future generations, but while we have to teach them, we have to teach them what was the message, not only Judith, but also the other works that Marulic wrote. I think it is important here in HS to underline that the main message of his message was patriotic, that she had resistance in her heart, had resistance to injustice, to evil, she had resistance to those who tried to possess the area where Croatia developed today. But we also need to send a message that Judith is not an accident. She is a very brave woman who has given this resistance and was in fact a synonym of great courage for Mark Marulic as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44631	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44632	I agree, colleague Krivec and the above makes us think about the prejudices that we often practice in public space when we talk about the Middle Ages and what is progressive and what is aggressive. Where are we today compared to the Marulic who sang just now Judith, exactly the woman, and we're talking about the dark Middle Ages and the bright 21st century where we're incriminating. So that's worth thinking about. I am shocked that many different actions have been designed for the Year of Reading, from the ambassadors of reading, international reading conferences, awards to young people for literature, small night readings, etc., and that we know nothing about the Year of Marko Marulic and the way it is marked. Moreover, if it had been a matter of the Resolute Ministry, it would not have happened in this way, with this kind of patronage.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44633	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44634	My colleagues and fellow MPs, of course we from the Most Club will support this proposal, give us what you give. If you had suggested it and as I said on 29.12. that, if you had remembered to declare the year of Mark Marulić about 500 years of printing Judita, you would have said here are the two days worth it, so we will support this, but I regret why this did not come before the assembly and why the Ministry of Culture and other institutions did not make a decent plan and programme of activities that would mark 500 years of printing a book, I repeat, which the faiths of Croatia were complex 500 years ago. I will repeat once again how the first original epic in the Slavic world at all. We see in Serbia, for example, these attempts to acquire Croatian literature, Dubrovnik, above all at these missing periods. Serbia had this tragedy that after the glorious rise of both the state and the Serbian culture in the Middle Ages, they fell under Turks and that there is nothing empty to Dosite and Vuk, and we have everything there is. We have both humanism and renaissance and baroque, and here we have this first artistic epic among the Slavic peoples. And let us remember 9.4. 500 years after that epic, we declare the year of its author. So, to mark perhaps we should declare this the 3/4 year of Marko Marulic or celebrate the 8 months of Mark Marulic. But even if this came at the end of the 12th month last year it would be too late since there is obviously no plan of activity and this remains on some mere formality as it is to express Croatianism by holding hands on the heart of the intonation of the anthem, and in this way to make a joke of the father and the foundation of Croatian and literature and identity. Marko Marulic is not only the greatest writer of Split and one of Croatia's greatest literature, but he was indeed a world writer in his day, thanks to his institutions. The Croatian defenders also mentioned themselves here, it is unfortunate that their victim and what is the greatest national achievement, which is the creation of our independent free state that today we have welcomed that more to Marulic in the institutional state time of the sinister first Yugoslavia against which the Croatian people fought so desperately when he was already in 1925. Meštrović created a magnificent statue of Marko Marulić, which was set up in Split for the first Yugoslavia, and today in free Croatia for 500 years, I would like to be declared in April by Mark Marulić. Goodbye on Marula, says Tin Ujevic in Forgiveness. Everything in Croatian literature is ultimately based on Marulic. Without tradition there is nothing, without tradition there is no avant-garde, without tradition it is impossible to reject tradition. And iconoclasm is impossible without tradition, without tradition is impossible and that.../incomprehensible/... young Ujević who says because of Marula, here we go some new roads, eventually followed by disappointment as always but if you don't have this Marula behind your back you can't even, like, without a father, without a mother, without a grandfather, without a grandmother, you can't even rebel against them. There's nothing without tradition. Without Marulić there is no Kranjčević, no Matoš, no Ujević, no unfortunate Viktor Vida, no unfortunate Ivan Goran Kovačić, all of this is us, all of it is the history of Croatian literature. There's no A.B. either. Shimic, not even my Peter Goodell. There's nothing without Marulic. We'll back it up, we'll support this with grief and anger and disappointment, but we'll back it up, give it what you give, but it's important that we said this today in the assembly what we said, that we're here. And what he says to mention Peter Goodell that he still has us, he has us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44635	We have a replica, the first one is Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44636	As you comment on the fact that it is not only about the failure of the resolution ministry, there is neither a large nor almost no opposition interest in this important anniversary and an indication of the failures that have occurred and remind you once again that Italy marks its Dante anniversary.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44637	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44638	It's sad that the situation in the assembly is what it is. We are reduced to one quarter of us can be there, but here I see five people from the entire opposition, a couple of MPs more on the side of the ruling. That's sad. Please warn the barrister, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44639	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44640	No, why don't you do your job chairing... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44641	You want to finish, you want to finish, I'll give you a heads-up, finish your debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44642	Thank you. In Italy as an Italian follow-up, of course this state of preparation has lasted years, years and have been included both the Italian State, the Ministry of Culture, all other institutions of importance related to literature, universities, schools, RAI as state television and this is indeed in Italy every day in every media despite and what is the coronary crisis and all other problems this year Dantea. And it's about death, come on we'll have a maybe If we have any different, I apologize. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44643	The next replica is the esteemed representative Ivana Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44644	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I read in your debate that Croatia is a small country and that Croatia has little literature compared to world scales, but that you noticed well that such relatively small literature had both its own renaissance and its baroque. She had it just thanks to Mark Marulica and all those who followed his lead. And we can talk about this proudly today after 500 years. We can talk about it when we stand by the monuments of Marko Marulić from Vukovar to Chile. We can talk about this when we explain to children the contents of Judith or some of his other known works, but the question is what we will really offer to the Croatian public this year, starting with the day of the Croatian book, or the day Marulic's Judita is finished.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44645	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44646	Since this anniversary has come up with those who were not obliged to come up with it, I will repeat it once more, and those who should have remembered I am afraid that there are no programs, that there will be little improvisation, breaking out of the HRT archives of some documentaries related to Marulic, and that will remain on it. Yes, you're right, we're a few people, but literaryly we're standing by anyone in Europe, here's what I don't know from banal examples, let's say petarkism is our testimony to the up-to-date monitoring of European trends. This petarkism of Croatia was not only the behaviour of Petrarka, which is the cornerstone of the European lyric, but also in many ways was creative or I don't know that the translation of Tasova Aminta came out of Dominik Zlatarić's pen before the original was printed because it was still circulating in manuscripts in literary circles, etc., etc. It's up to us to do our best, I repeat, to save what is to be saved, that if the weak goes through the institutions, it goes extra-institutionally, and in three years, the anniversary of death might be second power and second minister of culture, so we'll do the thing right.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44647	The next replica is the distinguished representative of Rada Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44648	Here's my colleague Rapudic, both on the trail and my colleagues, and I wanted to know before you ran out of time here we found that 1/3 of the year had passed if I knew the math and not only did we not know what they were planning to do but now you've added to the answer that we don't even know what the action plan is here. And we don't have to say that we have good literature is the fact that colleague Selak Rasdic said at the time, and we know what the technology of the press was, how it was printed, how famous it was in what was indeed a cultural Europe. So, that kind of forgetfulness could have happened if it was historic because of the content itself, but back and kept I said in my presentation in much less literature it didn't mean significant or valuable less, but in terms of the creation like Finland then it really invested so that this literature wouldn't happen. keep an identity. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44649	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44650	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The Honorable Representative was injured by Article 238 without entering the scale of your debate here you said there would be nothing to mark. I would just like to point out the need to protect Croatian language professors who are worthy and responsible people who raise Croatian youth, and if the institutions have failed they will certainly not fail and do I'll do my job. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44651	This was your replica, you have a warning. Next breach of the Rules of Procedure, Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44652	Article 238, if Mark Marulić's marking of the year is reading the short content of Judith, which is available to every high school student on the lecturer.hr which is the highlight of HDZ intellectualism in these benches, then indeed since this year at least as far as the contribution of the Croatian Parliament from your ranks is concerned there will be nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44653	We also have a warning because this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, this is your replica. New injury, Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44654	The Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament was injured in Article 238, I really didn't mean this way that you would react and that you would in this way degrade the role of raising and education of Croatian youth. So what is most valuable, and that is the Croatian youth they will get all the information they need, everything that is important and important with the year of Marko Marulić And I actually still think that's actually the most important thing [[Intruder: Time.]] And most valuable. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44655	Your second warning, this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44656	Representatives respected Boris, referring to what you said, with us everything that can somehow be tied to Europe and the EU. Well couldn't this Marulic who, these best-sellers are his Latin works primarily of the institution, we heard 10 translations at that time, indeed the bestseller in then-European whose common language was Latin. So couldn't it have been in the EU today that has itself some crisis of the foundation of identity well designed and placed at European level stories about Marulic. Perhaps declare at EU level some anniversary of Marulic related to those works read equally throughout Europe at the time which, educated people who read Latin. But here's nothing we hope to now, with the individual march of the Croatian language teacher, that a little more this year will be talked about Mark Marulic, that's our reach. And how much of the institutions care about him also says that recently in the proposals of the literature curricula that Marulic was hanging, whether it should be in the curricula at all, or just these pleasant, fun things.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44657	Following the final debate, the club of representatives of MOST, Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44658	I'm glad that your HDZ colleagues are laughing, and I am in this final position when you care so much about Marulic, you should have waited so that you all individually ordered yourself and said which of Marulic to show that what you have suggested is not only nominal and she's just a label but you really care about the content of what you've said. But I don't see you waiting in line, I haven't heard your individual debates, you're just heating up clubs probably by party order. Be it a source of false religion, Ujević sang in his goodbye to Marulic, as well as in Croatian tradition. That reminds me a little of what we're doing in the assembly today. Marulic gave his Judith to the Croatian people in Croatian. Marulic wanted the regiment to understand him. That's why Marulic was also an enlightener. Ivan Kukuljevic Sakcinski, who knew his importance and who followed his teaching, also gave the Croatian Parliament not but returned it to the Croatian people because he spoke Croatian in it. Today's laugh from the ruling majority. The world culture is becoming increasingly contaminated by arbitrary daily and private influences and interests in Croatia as well. It is particularly dangerous when the culture of the cultural policies of the institution and of the action becomes the means of ideological struggles with political and world-famous non-experienced people, which is often the case in our society. In this regard, we have witnessed how cultural and identity policies become increasingly important elements of both political struggles at national and global level. So culture is not just an addition to economy and politics, but an equal segment of every healthy and effective social and state system. Just today, more than ever, when we are fighting in areas of political correctness, in areas of creating and crucifying identity, culture is proven to be the anchor at the same time and as the most important weapon in battle that will allow us to survive these non-permanent times. Knowing that today is the crucial role of culture in survival, and not only the preservation of identity, the team is more shown by the shameful cultural neglect of the father of Croatian literature. No matter what it is missed to do in the ministry, no matter what this year has been delayed, we will support this proposal. We will support him because we want to remind again of Marulic's most important lesson. And that's a lesson that came from this assembly back in 1843 that I hope will come back to it. The Croatian language belongs to the Croatian people, and Marko Marulic is the one we can learn from. To lose the learning of every roar, to lose everyone's admiration with that glory, to reheat we leave the marsal hull now we're drowning we're stuck with the pillar. I will end up with Marulić, but with Marulić we who are aware of his role in the tradition that remains and the foundation of our modernity are just beginning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44659	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44660	Thank you very much, Vice President. The colleague injured Article 238, paragraphs 5 and 6, so the demeaning of other representatives and deviations from the rules of conduct in this assembly. So, I don't know, for half an hour now, we've been listening to fashion and doctoring from a colleague and her husband. I don't know where you're from, so you're assessing why certain representatives are here in these benches, where you get the right to evaluate and talk about someone's intelligence, and if you already have so many of these suggestions today that you're talking about here so why didn't you suggest yourself here. So this is just a mere criticism that's typical of you who we listen to every time in sessions. The assembly. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44661	Okay, this is your line now, so you have a warning. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure, Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44662	In 238, I don't know why MP Habian points out the relatives' connection between me and MP Selak Rasdic, we went on independent lists to two separate constituencys and each of us elected its parliamentary mandate. So, what difference does it make if I point out anything about your private life and your intimacy, why do you even point it out? Yes, you're right not the representative Simičević copied it from the lecturer.hr but wrote a brilliant essay on Marulić and I recommend that he publish it in one of our literary magazines.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44663	Well, you're getting a warning, too, because this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Marija Selak Rasudic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44664	Article 238, the assessment of insults to intelligence allows me to possess the same thing that is not necessarily necessary in this assembly. And as for listening to half an hour of our doctoring, of course you listen to them when you have nothing to say about Marulic yourself by sitting in the benches instead of climbing this assembly and explaining the program of what you have suggested.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44665	And a reminder to you. On behalf of the promoter Vesna Bedeković, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44666	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, first of all, I would like to thank all the clubs and all my colleagues and colleagues who participated in this debate today, and as much as I could understand it, and I am very pleased that all the clubs that have therefore discussed this proposal will be supported by the year 2021. And I'm very pleased to see you. Some of the facts we have already mentioned through the discussions have all been crystallized by opinions and attitudes. I will only repeat that the committee as a proposing, and within the committee and all its members, regardless of whether they are from the position or opposition unanimously consider it to be a commendable initiative aimed primarily at promoting the value of Marulic's literary opus, so to promote its very significant role in the national literary fund, and also to promote its far-reaching importance in the history of the Croatian language because we have talked about it and it has been highlighted in several places in the Latin language in the context of that time, but that part of its scope is written in Croatian language and, of course, in the context of that time, this initiative is intended to show and prove, confirm the rooting of Croatian literature precisely in the European cultural context. I will only take advantage of the opportunity how much time it allows me to recapture, repeat and emphasize that indeed Marulić was a typical humanist of his time and as I have already said most of the works he wrote in Latin, several short writings he wrote in Italian, but as I said a significant trail or opus he left in Croatian and that is what we inherit today. And Mark Marulić's literary legacy is extensive and diverse. If we analyze a little bit, we will remind ourselves that his main literary role models were the Bible, classical antiquity, patriotism, and in his almost entire literary opus, Marulic was primarily the spreader and interpreters of the basic so-called Christian morale. But, of course, with this deep religious and lasting tendency to miraculous teaching, it was evident that humanistic education and the breadth of interest, hence the breadth of interest from literature through history, archaeology, politics, rights to painting, so it is also a reflection of the times in which Marulić lived and created. I would like to remind myself that most of Marulic's Latin works make up various prose writings and religiously instructive, moralistic and theological content, of course, according to the scope and worldly echoes in the first place, I would like to remind myself of the work called “Training in Fair Life by Examples of Saints, ” a moralistic writing of Bible and hageographic inspiration, and in fact it is a collection of short teaching stories and anecdotes from the Bible and the résumé of saints, so a religious, moral, educational work in six books. It is his most translated work in the world, printed about 60 times, of which four times during Marulic's life, and here we talked about 'Judita', so with 'Judita', as the ep emphasized, 'In versi horvatically complex' written with a famous verse taken over by old poets and old Croatian writers, so on. The spices and, of course, inspired by the Old Testament hero "Judit" who, in the days of Ottoman breakthroughs in the Croatian countries, represented at the same time a kind of interpreter of the Christian worldview. And of course with "Judita" let's not forget "Suzana" his Bible poem in 780 verses on which the Croatian books are mentioned, let's not forget both the pious and moralist songs "Good Science", "The Divine Mary" "From the Easter of Jesus", "From the Rise of Our Lady", etc., let's not forget his worldly songs "Anka Satire", "Sacred" and "Courtesy" etc. And I would like to remind of a beautiful in 172 double-rhythmic song of the anti-Turkish theme "Molitva Opposite Turk" in which Marulić, as in many of his works, manifested this very humanistic interest in history, but certainly expressed this patriotic concern about the Ottoman conquests and the disunity of the then Christian Europe in which Marulic lived. Finally, I will conclude that Marulic, in today's day, is recognised by a general court as the most important Croatian writer of the 15th and 16th centuries and a national classic beyond the borders of our country as a prominent representative of European Christian humanism and renaissance. So these are just some of the facts that I pointed out because of this, of course, I wanted to stress and the fact that this meeting is not a place to qualify and interpret anyone's behavior is not a place for qualified colleagues and colleagues to be ignorant, to qualify someone that doesn't want to discuss them individually or individually because there is no idea about Mark Marulic is no place in this assembly to think that some of us are the smartest, and that some of us are a little less smart. Instead of waiting, instead of criticizing, it was more constructive and more effective to launch the initiative, which could have been. It's the easiest thing to criticise, the easiest thing to do is to deliver, and it's a little harder to run something and put it into action. And therefore I am truly sorry but I am therefore against every usurpation of this honorable place, against every usurpation of this assembly in order to create circumstances and possibilities for the moderation of the debate which, with all due respect, reminds us of HTV's 5-day rather than the assembly, with all due respect to all colleagues and colleagues. Once again, I would like to thank all those who participated in the debate, and I would like to invite you to support, support the decision, to make a decision in 2021 to declare yourself the year of Mark Marulic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44667	Okay, we've got a few replicas, the first one is Maria Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44668	I took the last comparison with the show as a compliment because it was an intellectual show, and this assembly because of the way you put people first on lists is rarely an oasis of intellectuals. And what exactly did you do as a government that has the opportunity not only to propose but to implement initiatives about Mark Marulic? This proposal is not yours, but a proposal from the Croatian Language Professor's Education and Education Agency. So you didn't do anything. Secondly, you didn't suggest anything when you suggested their proposal on how to implement it. And third, as you comment on the fact that your ministry said this shouldn't be Marulic's year so as not to reduce the acuity of insight and fragment public attention because they've already declared a year of reading. So, your ministry that has all the leverage to implement the initiatives in the work didn't want Mark Marulic's year.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44669	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44670	Thank you very much. My colleagues understand that I am trying to understand your anxiety, I am trying to understand your behavior, local elections are close, the election campaign is already in motion and, of course, in this context, this assembly is also used as a polygon, as a polygon. As for the opinion of the Ministry of Culture, their opinion needs to be read well, and nowhere in their opinion does it say that the Ministry of Culture is against the adoption or declaration of the year of Marko Marulic. It just doesn't stand and I can't agree with that, so we need to read the culture ministry's statement in detail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44671	The next replica is the esteemed representative Ivana Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44672	Dear colleagues Bedekovic, about a year ago, Matica hrvatska launched an initiative to study the importance for Croatian literature Marko Marulić. She invited the Croatian public to read and see what Marko Marulic wrote 500 years ago. Also on the 400th anniversary of Judith's release in 1901, Matica issued a special edition of Croatia and Judith. Furthermore, a significant, significant place in the City of Zagreb, Mark Marulić Square lies on beautiful Lenuci horseshoes and actually holds on to the university and national library. These are special meanings for Mark Marulic. Please tell me as chairman of the committee that is proposing, do you have any further knowledge of what Croatia will do in the year of Marko Marulić to make a new contribution, we have a memorial to Mark Marulić, we have a number of other things which we will get from Croatia this year. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44673	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44674	So, the years that we've just walked in, we've already entered the two thousandths well and... I beg your pardon? [[Intruder: You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44675	Please don't communicate. Please don't answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44676	So look what you have, your question is whatever we get, so that's what I want to answer you, so be kind enough to listen to me. What I'm saying is that here we are already in April of the month, the year has moved away, and I agree that this initiative, the decision should have been made maybe before. Therefore, when it comes to all activities, the programmes that will therefore be formed by the end of 2021 will certainly be informed about them. Among other things, I have information that HRT is currently preparing a documentary on Mark Marulic. Whatever else is going to happen, you will certainly be informed in due time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44677	The next replica, the esteemed representative of Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44678	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Bedeković, here I think we can all agree, or most of us here that this is one commendable initiative. I would just mention that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has decided to declare this year's proposal to the Ministry of Culture under an interesting slogan, so let's not run out of words. So it would be good for some of us here in the assembly to think about this slogan, and it would also be good to think about Mark himself, the character and the work of Mark Marulic, who was a humanist. My colleague Rasdić herself has listed many of his qualities here, called them numerous epithets, and it would be good if when she talks and praises and epithets that she herself adheres to them in this assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44679	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44680	My colleague, your replica was more of a comment than a question so I thank you for your comment, and certainly all of what you have said is appreciated and supported and I agree with you that instead of actually politicizing and putting the father of Croatian literature in some political contexts, it would be more worthy and dignified to speak of Marulic in a quality way instead of making him one of the prominent Croatian personalities to put him in different contexts and benefits to achieve some other goals that we could talk about much about, but here is the minute we are not allowed to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44681	Next replica, Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44682	Your Honor, ma'am. Bedekovic, you said we were upset. Yeah, we're upset. I am upset because in 9.4.2021 we declare “the year of Mark Marulić” and I do not see anything prepared about it. That's what makes me upset. You're saying why we didn't give the initiative. Well, we don't keep the Ministry of Culture. It's like telling me why you don't pay a little debt to the big drugstores or why you don't take a shovel from the opposition and renovate Zagreb. In recent years, your culture minister, they had to think about it and it should have been declared and prepared all in time last year, not in this way. This is a joke with the father of Croatian literature to dedicate three frittatas or 1/3 "The year of Marko Marulić". I've mastered and doctored literature, but I'm not a marulologist, there was a frat. Bruno Rasdic, '57. he received his doctorate in Madrid at Marulic, but I will listen with interest to newly-roasted marulologist Rado Simicevic as well as to what he has to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44683	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44684	My dear colleague, with all due respect to you, I appreciate you and respect you as an academically educated citizen, as a smart man, but I just don't know what to say to your replica. I could answer that, but I don't want to go down to your level, I don't want to bring the father of Croatian literature into different contexts, I don't want to, again, get down to the level of insult to someone, I don't want to drop to the level of commenting on anyone in this assembly in a way that he's belittled and that in an ironic way, therefore, comment [[Intruder: Time]] his exposure. [[Intruder: Time]] Excuse me, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44685	Next, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44686	Your Honor, ma'am. Bedekovic, the word "parliament" comes from a parlo parliament in late Latin, which means speaking. We're here to talk and be ironic if we need to be in some things. If someone humiliates the father of Croatian literature, it is you who decide to dedicate the year to him. You insulted me because you're not answering my questions, but you're imputing me as I speak to God at some low level. Why are you declaring this at the 4th month and what is prepared of the program, and does the Ministry of Culture know which one your party manages?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44687	You have not called on any of the Rules of Procedure. ... Okay. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] This wasn't an injury, you have a warning. Next replica of Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44688	I would like to thank Vice President HS, the distinguished representative of Bedekovic. Here we have a truly commendable anniversary of the 500th anniversary. from the first printing of Marulic’s “Judi. ” You wouldn't really get into what any MPs have said. Everyone has the right to make their point. But once again, I want to stand up for the Croatian language professors who are raising and educating Croatian youth and I don't think it's correct whether the failures of any kind of system are made into it or I don't want to comment, but it's really not good and it's not a place to talk about professors in such a way that they won't do anything. And the fact that many of the MPs here have been doing impelations about what, so they remembered, now that they've seen this. They think they could be different, so they had a chance. [[Intruder: Time]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44689	We have another breach of the Rules of Procedure. What's this injury?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44690	Infringement of Rules of Procedure 238, demeaning. I didn't say one word to the professors of Croatian language. You are not answering my questions why the 9.4. you are just declaring "A year of Marulić" without any preparation but making up that I said something against a Croatian language teacher. They will unfortunately have to present on their backs something in practice that you institutionally did not do.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44691	You're getting a warning, this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Marija Selak Rasudić injuries to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44692	Art. In 238, a lot of false things are being told here, which is why we are beinglittled as Parliamentarians. No one has offended anyone. The only thing I've come to realize from the Parliament is that you're not standing in line to talk about Mark Marulic. If you find that offensive, ask yourself why you haven't changed that. Don't spread lies because you don't have answers to basic questions, which is that you haven't prepared anything for this anniversary.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44693	The third violation of the Rules of Procedure or the third warning, so I take away your word until the end of the debate. Next violation of the Rules of Procedure, Rada Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44694	I thank the vice president of HS. He's been injured. 230. Indeed, in my presentation, I did not mention any parliamentary representative or parliamentary representative. So, only here was it heard from the pay phone that nothing would be done to mark the 500th anniversary of the first press "Judi" Mark Marulic. I just stepped in to defend my colleagues and colleagues, professors and professor of Croatian language So, I didn't want to, but.../The speaker turned off./... [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44695	This was also not a breach of the Rules of Procedure and you get a warning, a third warning, I take away your word for the rest of the debate. The next replica is the distinguished representative Anica Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44696	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Professor Bedekovic. As chairman of the Education Committee, you have introduced us in a very meaningful and thorough way just in the final name of the club, thanks to a valuable initiative on the declaration of Mark Marulić, or in the year 2021. The year of Mark Marulic. What I would like to mention here is that it is on behalf of this Croatian writer Marko Marulić and a Christian humanist, the father of Croatian literature, that he is often impressed by the English ethnic. On behalf of this Croatian writer, the state shipowner Jadrolini is, on behalf of his most famous work, "Judet" which has been spotted beyond our borders of Croatia, which has been translated into many world languages, the state shipowner Jadrolini named the catamaran "Judita" in his name. in which 2003 He also drove the Holy Father Pope Paul. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44697	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44698	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Members, I thank you here for actually reminding us once again that it is not quite true and it is not so that Croatia does not know, that Croatia, therefore, is a concrete government headed by the HDZ, does not only know to mark Mark Marulić's year, but also that the Croatian government does not give in to the opinions of some of our colleagues and colleagues on the other hand enough attention to our heritage and does not give enough attention to Mark Marulić, so it is just another argument. And Mr. Vice President, I kindly ask you to allow me to respond to the replica of my colleague Simičević, had... ............................................................................................................ Thank you very much. [[I'm sorry.]] I owe you an answer, I'll say the hard words fall, it'll fall, we know the reason. It is time for Croatian citizens to decide at local level and then the tensions grow. And in the next few days we can expect things in this assembly because we know and we are aware of the fact that the assembly is used among other things as a polygon for visibility regardless of the level. I believe that this assembly is a place to discuss, but a debate that is cultural, well-founded and debate that is not insulting to anyone, and especially to a debate that is here, in no case should I repeat it again, not turn into that one show. on HRT. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44699	Injury of Rules of Procedure Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44700	The 238th demeaning of MPs, imputing that our motivation is to react this way to the fact that in the 4th month you are yet declaring the Year of Mark Marulic, and apparently without any preparation, it is motivated by interests in local elections. We who participated in this debate are professors of literature and do not participate in local elections, we are not running anywhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44701	Well, you know it wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure and you have a third warning. Here's what we've exhausted from the full debate. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. And now I declare a break until 12:00 p.m. when we will proceed with the vote. MEETING AT 11:48 A.M.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-09-0.u44702	Proposal for a Decision declaring 2021. "The year of Mark Marulić". The proposal is proposed by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the proposal for a decision to declare 2021. "The year of Mark Marulić". Who's in? Who's restrained? I didn't even ask who was against it, so I don't know how the results got here. Does anyone mind maybe? There isn't. Or is it? There isn't. Then give me back the score to see. Yeah, well, I still didn't say who was against it already showed up on the screen, so obviously there was an estimate of those who count that nobody did, but I'd still like it to be clean. We can do it again then. You don't have to who you are in the assembly here I see on the screen, but for those who are outside the assembly. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? So 118 voted in favour, so a decision was taken to declare 2021. The year of Mark Marulic. Annual report by the Croatian Agency for Small Economy, Innovation, HAMAG-BICRO Investments for 2018-2019. The applicant is the Croatian Agency for Small Economy, Innovation, Investment, we will vote on this item on the agenda in accordance with Article. 44.st. 4. The Rules of Procedure of HS. In accordance with the proposal of the home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Annual Report of the Croatian Agency for Small Economy, Innovation, the investments of HAMAG-BICRO for 2018-2019" Who is in favour? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 112 MPs and MPs, 76 for, 7 abstentions, 29 against, and thus concluded that it was proposed by the home body.
