ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27079	We move to: - Proposal for a Decision declaring the exclusive economic belt of the Republic of Croatia in the Adriatic Sea; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the Government submitted an amendment and in accordance with Article. 119. We agreed to the Rules of Procedure on such a special amendment at the beginning of today's session. I would like the representative of the motionary, foreign and European ministers, Mr Gordan Grlic Radman, to explain these amendments to us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27080	Honorable Vice President of HS, the Honorable Madam MPs, gentlemen of the Parliament. Last December, the Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted to HS a consultation report on the purpose of declaring the exclusive economic belt of the Republic of Croatia in the Adriatic Sea, as well as a proposal for a Decision declaring the exclusive economic belt of the Republic of Croatia in the Adriatic Sea. The debate on the abovementioned acts was concluded on 17 December 2020, and the HS reached its conclusion on 18 December which adopted the report and supported the proposal for a Decision declaring the exclusive economic band of the Republic of Croatia in the Adriatic Sea. In view of the need to establish the date of entry into force of the decision and, in that context, the resulting and date of the declaration of the exclusive economic band, the Government was on 14 January 2021. The HS shall submit an amendment to point 8. The proposal for a decision establishing 1 February of this year as a date of entry into force of the Decision. Since the mentioned date of 1 February of the Croatian Parliament is not concerned with the decision, you know, there was no quorum, and therefore the conditions for its entry into force on 1 February 2021 have not been met. The government submitted February 2nd, 2021. Croatian Assembly of Amendments at point 8. The proposal for a decision amending the intended moment of entry into force of the decision in order to determine that the decision takes effect 8 days from the hope of publication in the National Journal. Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I invite you to support the amendment that changes the intended moment of entry into force of the decision in order to determine that the decision is effective 8 days from the day of publication in the National Journal. This will ensure the declaration of the IGP of the Republic of Croatia and extend the sovereign rights and jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia in the area of the sea along our external border of the territorial sea to the centre of the Adriatic which the Republic of Croatia belongs to internationally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27081	Thank you, too. Stay, please here, we have a few replicas. Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27082	Dear Minister, I'll see you again on the same subject, it's a simple question, tell me, dear Minister, are there any Italian carriages in the Croatian part of the IGP at this time and how many are there?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27083	Dear Mr. MP, if you had stayed in the assembly and voted for the 29th of January, today you might have been given an answer, but by going out, you have actually compromised our debate and talks, endangering the credibility of the government of the Republic of Croatia, because since 29 January it has been spoken a long time ago. Therefore, Croatian diplomacy is doing exactly that, but you have stopped us in this process by leaving the Croatian Parliament, and this is exactly the direction of the IGP, the greater protection of the Adriatic Sea, what we want to do with Italy, the higher level of protection, so that when you vote, clearly, with a delay, here in the second time I hope that it will succeed, then you will have an answer to your question.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27084	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27085	Dear Ministers, of course. 238, you didn't answer. So you haven't answered my question, the question is clear, you're 30 years late making this decision, your party, you honor me for six days and you haven't said anything changes. You're not, that nothing changes. And you can no longer deceive the Croatian public that you will protect the Adriatic when you do not protect it. The Croatian people are not naive and stupid.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27086	Thank you. Thank you very much, I would only beg to lower the tensions, to lower the tensions, no, to lower the tensions, that's because from now on, there's no point in starting with the warnings in seven and a half. Second replica, Mr. Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27087	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, I once again congratulate the work done on the agreement on the joint announcement of the IGP on the Adriatic. What would I be interested in, if you can tell us, given that point 3 of this decision is defined by the borders of our IGP which I hope we will vote on Friday are defined until the demarcation, whether a new meeting at the trilateral level is planned soon or in some other way are you planning to start talking about the IGP demarcation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27088	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27089	I'm sorry, Mr. Minister, I have to give you my word, that's the Rules of Procedure, please respond. Please respond, Mr. Radman.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27090	And thank you very much. This is exactly the 29th of January, with a lot of enthusiasm and optimism, we went to an agreed trilateral with the belief that the IGP would be declared that day because this is the very one dynamic above all, meaning the announcement of the IGP and the establishment of a really temporary border based on the '68 agreement. Mr. former country with Italy in the middle of the epicontinental belt we went with this belief that we would continue to discuss and protect what Mr. Zekanovic said clearly, because the protection of the Adriatic is actually based not on volunteerism but on scientific research and we have already started from the Apple and also on the northern Adriatic we have discussed how we will protect the further common Adriatic Sea.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27091	Thank you. Mr. Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27092	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, here I congratulate you on your work, we know that the art policy is possible and that we simply declared the IGP when conditions were acquired and also creating an independent state of Croatia. My question may not be about this, but I would like to hear your opinion on statements from BiH that oppose the declaration of the Croatian IGP as if they had not asked that question by the Bosniak authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27093	Mr. Minister. We're a little out of the loop, but, Mr. Secretary, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27094	Thank you very much. I think it's the subject, it's precisely because the IGP issue is both an interesting topic and a third country, BiH. So we in our preliminary talks informed all foreign ministers. Both ministers and prime ministers at all levels. I also spoke to Bosnia and Herzegovina Minister Biser Turkovic in the beginning of December. In parallel, our ambassador spoke with President Zoran Tajelti, who is the chairman of the Council of Ministers. So they all took that note, and the chairman of the Council of Ministers accepted and welcomed it. But suddenly after a month and a half we came, we got a note that surprised us. A Serbian member of the presidency said the note was not in line. Also, Deputy Foreign Minister Josip Brkic of the Croatian people said he knew nothing about it. So it's a lonely case.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27095	Thank you very much. I'm obliged to say Mr. Grlic Radman out of respect that why I said we were off topic because the subject is a change in date only. She's technical. The debate is already over. That's why I said that... That's why I said it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's all. So it's not out of the question, but today the theme is to change the date of a technical nature only. ... Let's not go. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So Mr. Gary Cappelli's up now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27096	Your Honor, Vice President. Ministers like you said yourself I think there's no more, we've finished the story as far as it's concerned and it's only a matter of moving the date because last week we know we haven't been able to vote on it. So my question is just going to be brief, did we expect trilaterals in the meantime, it was held, is there any new moments that we should know about? Has anything changed? Is it since we've been changing dates, has anyone had a grudge or something? Or has the trilateral moment been used to maybe strengthen the conversation on the subject? So, is it possible that there has been further discussion of the protection from the outings and from other topics related to the common protection of the area, because we know that it is very important for the Republic of Croatia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27097	Thank you. Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27098	Thank you very much. Yes, on January 29th, there was a trilateral meeting at the operational level where it was on behalf of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, State Secretary Metelko Zgombic, and there it was just discussed the improvement of the management framework clearly in the Adriatic. Clearly, scientific reasons have been established and to implement appropriate measures precisely with a view to protecting the Adriatic resources. I mentioned earlier the example of the Apple Hall, the protection of lists on the northern Adriatic and of course deep marine habitats in the southern Adriatic and other areas that are actually the cornerstone of scientific research. We can't go in the way of volunteering and we'll be hosting the same trilateral in Zagreb soon, so we'll talk intensively. The Adriatic is a common good European and our neighbours.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27099	Thank you very much. Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27100	Thank you very much. Minister, here we go. repeat what is the last time Croatia is a democratic community i.e. [[You don't understand.]] The government accepted the proposal that Most was making. After 5 years, however, the declaration of an exclusive economic belt has been accepted, although I agree with those who say it should have been declared 20 years and more to protect our Adriatic. I'm interested in how you look, only in Split-Dalmatia County in the Adriatic Sea has 9 exploration fields of hydrocarbons i.e. Oil and everything? How do you look through the declaration of an exclusive economic belt that can endanger our Adriatic and what do we do with tourism and, of course, fish fleets? This is a very important question for me because I know that 9 platforms that will emerge as mushrooms can also endanger the fish fund and, of course, tourism in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27101	Thank you. Please, if you think so.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27102	So, Mr Bulj, first of all, we're talking about how we're going to have a debate that's already going on here for the second or third time, so we're talking about the acceptance of the amendment to declare an exclusive economic belt. Of course, here as Government as we have worked and so far we will be focused on protecting the Croatian Adriatic, and here each county is important to us, each county is Croatian County and so is Split County. Therefore, there you will surely have, you will have a Croatian government that is responsible for the protection absolutely and here you come from Split-Dalmatia County. I know how sensitive you are down there. But we're all equally sensitive. That's the back. Absolutely that's our priority, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27103	Thank you. Mr. Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27104	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, well, I just called to point out how important it is that we finally declare the economic belt to vote it out, because every little delay we see how it can open up space to some problematization of this declaration even though you explained the context when you were answering the question about these reactions from BiH. But it seems to me that now is the time to put aside any particular party interest and to take that responsibility that we have in the Croatian Parliament and finally support this government proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27105	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27106	Thank you, Mr. Stier. I really agree with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27107	Now you don't have any more replicas. We're going to the clubs. The first one after cleaning the box will now be Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27108	Honorable Minister, Your Honor. Dear Vice President, don't laugh at me since I'm not really in your Italian language, I know something, something. Ulder arione bianco, Top Gun, Vikingo, Barakuda, El Sit, Condor, Tucio, Fratelli Medori, Galileo Padre, Rosa dei Venti, Vicenza Paolucci, Gianluca, Marika, Second, Elna, Ben Hur, Tirpitz, Fratelli, Gasparoni, Sindolino, Avanti, Auda. I'm not really into you, but we're moving on, there's a lot of it. Nono, Lisa, Il Greco, Giulia, Tarantini, Santore di Santaros, Gabriele Padre, Maros, San Gerardo, Fenice, Invisibile, Roberta, Toscano, Kallogero, Vasile, Marinaro, I don't know much Italy, but I'll try a little more Adriana, Tre, Teresa Madre, Silavna M, Damiano, Elenana, Europe, Indomita. I'm breaking a little tongue, you could do this by tomorrow, you wouldn't be able to do it tomorrow, but you'd definitely use all 10 minutes to read this especially because I don't know Italian well. .../Speakers speak at the same time./... But here's a fellow Stier learning Italian getting ready for the Vatican. So this is about a 10% brake currently in international waters. I'm not gonna lie, they're not all with us, we're 80 percent in our IGP area. Whoever doesn't believe let it open, this I read online is called VESSEL FINDER, you have an exact app with all the ships and then turn on only fishing boats and show you this. And that's the key question of all the questions, will all these Italian ships, you see that Italian ships, there are no Filipino ships, there are no American, Canadian ships, Nigerian but Italian ships, will they fish and after eight days of publication in the National Journal we declare IGP? You know what? It will. And that's what's important and that's what's key. And Ministers really do me when I do this job... I try to do another job and I am in the truth, but when you get me out of here like that, and you say that we're out of opposition and I'm out of control, and we're out of control, how this could have happened from your context, that's a lie, because in 10 days and 15 days and in a month and in a year, as long as the government of Andrej Plenkovica is the same ships, maybe even more of them, will fish in the Croatian part of the IGP, and that's what's important. But I'm glad that you've heard one thing these several times, and we've talked a lot about this, this is the fourth time if I'm not mistaken, that you've learned one thing from me after all, so you've mentioned here the protection of the Adriatic because it's crucial, that the secretary of state. 'Cause the key is I'll be back by 2030. We must protect 30% of the Adriatic, 30% of the Adriatics must protect, and the Italians will force us to be sovereigns and to think about their country to protect the coastal and territorial seas, internal waters, and we will leave the IGP to them again, and that will unfortunately happen. But it is a question of all the questions that I asked earlier, are the fishermen at this time the Italian carriage in the Croatian part of the Adriatic? All of you, when you watch this on social networks on TV, install the VESSEL FINDER app a simple application, but really interesting, you will see hundreds and hundreds of Italian ships that are currently in the Croatian part of the IGP, hundreds. You don't trust the Minister? Here's the minister doesn't trust me. Please open your viewers dear, install the app hundreds, hundreds of them are currently in international waters, most of them in the Croatian part of the IGP, if they are not currently going to be in half an hour and return to Italy to land fish. Whose fish? Our fish, Croatian fish. Install the Ministers, I know you've never seen it. So this app I didn't know existed today the Croatian fishermen called me and told me facing the minister with this app, this is a fact, every boat fishing, not just fishing, has a GPS exactly can be located. Look where those ships are, look. And that one ship is full, and there are dozens and hundreds. Unfortunately, no matter what I've talked about, it may be hours on this subject that nothing will change, but I am still glad that I have managed to bring much of the Croatian public to light on this, that this is actually a fraud, a deception. I am not against this because this creates predisposition for possible protection that will not happen, so I will vote for this term it is not disputed and I wanted to vote the other day, even so Jandrokovic realized that there is no quorum, but it is irrelevant, but it is crucial that we are really as a hostage state in the hands of Andrej Plenkovic, who is to achieve his Brussels ambitions invested the entire state of Croatia and that is what is crucial. And as many as some of the HDZ colleagues will now defend what is today voted upon when they stand with themselves in the towers or when they meet me in the hallway, they will know that I was the only one here telling the truth and that this is a measure and that on yours, my question was just from a bench that was simple, how many boats currently fishermen in the Croatian part of the IGP, the answer should be hundreds, and unfortunately there will be hundreds and days tomorrow and to whatever government of Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27109	Now that you've seen it, I've let you speak to the end, even though what I'm about to say is a speech in the wind, I know it, but it's a technical change of one date, but... You can. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go. Mr. Grlic Radman will speak, use his five minutes as a proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27110	Thank you very much. Only Mr. Zekanovic says and goes, and I can't stay indifferent actually to statements that should actually be true, but they are here repeating other people's truths that can't really convince anyone that Mr. Zekanovic was reading, it's probably watching some long movie, so let's just say, the names of actors can be the same. So he can't convince Mr. Zekanovic of the Croatian public. And Mr. Zekanovic cannot convince the Croatian public of something contrary to what Andrej Plenkovic is. Let Mr. Zekanovic tell me who could be a better prime minister after 30, 20 years of Croatian freedom. May he be happy to have such a prime minister, such a Croatian government and HDZ as the holder of the legislative authority, the majority in HS facing these problems, from coronaryvirus and various earthquakes, etc. I would say that sometimes it's even good to speak falsely because it's original, even sometimes it's almost better this one than to repeat other people's truths. When a man speaks falsely, he is a man, and when he repeats other people's truths, he is a parrot. As for freedom, as far as protection is concerned, clearly, Mr. Zekanovic has not been there since the beginning because he left, I've been talking about protection since the first day, but we live in a polite world, we live in an international community, we are a responsible member of the EU, Mr. Zekanovic has not counted or doesn't know which Croatian ships and Croatian coaches that fish, etc. Therefore, freedom or sovereignty may not be understood as some legal notion where you can or synonym for something unlimited. There's no way, there's control and there's a shared responsibility. And for this administration, the improved management meaning of this surveillance and control, which we are actually working on and we want, and that is exactly what we want, so we want to actually protect those areas that are most vulnerable, which are above all, of our interest, and of course, also of common interest. You can't, clearly in the sea, because it's possible to build some kind of wall that will lead you up to the moon. So that, too, sovereignty in every respect is limited, clear, and objective in fact by international and legal order, and so the issue of the Adriatic Sea, and you have to trust me when I want to, when I point out exactly that protection and freedom which, above all, we enjoy and protect the Adriatic Sea which is clearly, very important to us because we cannot function and manage only in a way that is not actually an immeasurable authority that cares for the interests of Croatian citizens, Croatian public, Croatian fishermen. Croatian fishermen and fisheries common policy is one and the same from European policies, where we are all actually taking care of it. We have just received from the President of the EU Commission where she welcomed the letter, in a letter, where she welcomed the establishment of an exclusive economic belt because it is one of the higher levels of protection for the Adriatic Sea. So we're going to be the ones who will take care of wealth, of natural resources, of fish funds, I, I mentioned apple cauldron, I also mentioned a leaf as one, a fish species that disappears, therefore, but on the basis of scientific research. Therefore, Mr. Zekanovic is a populist deceiver of the public when he claims otherwise. Mr. Zekanovic is a naturalist, he finished, in some ways an exact science, so he would have to take care of it, however, this is politicised, and what we do by declaring the exclusive economic belt is the interest of the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27111	Thank you. ... Mr. Zekanovic, stay, stay. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's plenty of that. Mr. Zekanovic was first, no, Mr. Bulj was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure first. Mr. Bull, here, here, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27112	I am withdrawing the breach of the Rules of Procedure because indeed, this is the grand glory of the great leader of Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27113	Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Mr. Zekanovic, Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27114	So in 238, I'm just going to say in one decent way that the minister was telling the truth and let him face me with one false fact that I misjudged. You said I was telling the truth, but tell me one thing I misquoted. One thing, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27115	You know that heavy heart, I must give you a warning. Mr. Gary Cappelli, replica. No, Zekanovic, first replica, forgive me, you also have a replica, yes, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27116	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27117	Who's involved, who's involved? Gary, turn it off.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27118	And give me five seconds back, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27119	Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27120	Every second is precious. Time, time, give me my time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27121	Give it back.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27122	Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27123	We can even return time, imagine the power we have.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27124	No, we're all powerful. It's just a slow time, it's a long night.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27125	Put it on zero, well I'll hold it.../incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27126	Okay, okay, here's what I trust you guys. So, Honorable Minister, so I know it bothers you when someone faces the truth, only when you told me that I was telling the truth at that point you were telling the truth and I'm still gonna call it one of those real ways it's a lie. So I really don't lie in my life and today I haven't told a single lie. Dear Minister, here I am now looking at WesselFinder's how many ships there are, there may be one 60, 70 presently in our part of the Adriatic and then I looked for the one who is Croatian and I saw the one named Galeb, but then when I looked at it, I saw that it wasn't Galeb but Galileo and he was an Italian ship. So if you ministers don't believe me here I'll introduce you Here's the VesselFinder app, look at the ministers, see. [[No, no, no, no, please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27127	Please, listen, Mr. Zekanovic, we're not, Mr. Zekanovic, we're not at the inn, please stay put.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27128	This is exact, this is exact. and this is all very well seen, so in the Croatian part of the Adriatic [[Intruder: Stay where you are.]] So IGP is currently hunting down 100 Italian carriages and that's true, and what you said is unfortunately your lie. [[- Okay, please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27129	Here, thank you very much, time. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27130	Thank you very much. Mr. Zekanovic but I'm very surprised by your skill you're like Batman and I've looked up at you, but that you're changing like this you know benches and so on I didn't really expect it, but you were talking about the truth. I'd say and what I'm not saying is that lying is more beautiful than telling the truth these people are, people are very sensitive to it. The first law of history is not afraid to say something or be afraid to say something false, and the second law of history is to be afraid to say something, not to be afraid of something false. Do not be afraid to say something true, and you are actually trying here in some way to convince the Croatian public that we are not telling the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27131	Mr. Zekanovic, I'm going to have to give you a warning, if you have another warning, Mr. Zekanovic. That's what it says in the Rules of Procedure. Are you finished, sir? No, don't wait, wait a minute. It wasn't over with Mr. Secretary's reply. It was over, was it over? Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27132	There goes the gentleman and my time has run out.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27133	Not because you were interrupted. Mr. Cappelli, here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27134	Thank you very much. I think we're getting lost. There has been a change of date and we should have concluded the story today, and this is all else we can go into the stamps of the threads and talk about it, and at the end of the apple cauldron if we can say that it is very evidence that it is a unique case in the Mediterranean where 1,500 square kilometers were protected no one has been able to do so except for Croatia, so it is evidence that Croatia knows, can and will and will solve such problems in a way where, for example, there is only two, two days a year practically. This is proof that in these 3 years we have managed to achieve in one area what Croatia wants. And that's how we're gonna keep doing it, so I don't think this whole thing makes any sense any further. We wanted to be in the EU, family, we told most of the votes that we wanted to do so, and so we have to act accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27135	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27136	Thank you very much, Mr. Cappelli. I've just come here with this goal to convey, because the government, we actually had to withdraw that data first and make a new amendment so that we've lost all of our time together, that it's been done and voted on January 29th, I don't think we'd be sitting here today discussing this unnecessaryly since we've already discussed it. This can only go clearly into indefinitely, but I have come to present a new date for applying the declaration of the exclusive economic belt.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27137	Mr. Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27138	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Minister, we all know what European law is, what rules and fisheries are like when someone criticises those rules, then you should say what the alternative is, to go to the end, to say then, thinks it's an alternative to get out of the EU, but then it has to explain whether Croatia will be in a better position if it is outside the EU, if it is in a Balkan, customs union, whether it will be better for the Croatian people, for Croatian citizens than it is in the EU. I think that our citizens in the referendum have already confirmed this and now to problem us in the essence of our EU membership is simply to conduct a completely wrong debate, but if someone wants to lead it in this way, then let them clearly say that they want to stay on the political thorny Balkans rather than be part of the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27139	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27140	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27141	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27142	Thank you very much. I agree with Mr. Stier completely.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27143	Thank you very much. Sir, we're done with the replicas, thank you very much, Mr. Minister. Mr. Branko Bačić, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27144	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, I have spoken more about this political aspect of the declaration as well as how the Republic of Croatia has acted and acted through the declaration of all the sea space that we have been granted under our Maritime Code and is talking about, about the approach to comply with foreign policy priorities, these same belts declare. I talked less about the professional part, although I was much more invited here because I led the Croatian Maritime Administration for six and a half years, and in my portfolio was the protection of the Adriatic, most of the protection against pollution from ships, less from the mainland, it was more in the portfolio of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, and later I led the part. So I can say something about that, especially the part Mr. Zekanovic is talking about right now. But it would be good if Mr. Zekanovic did not assure us in HDZ what would happen when he came and declared the IGP and what changes would be in relation to ZERP. We know it very well and I have said it many times and that is why I have never been here now when we start now by declaring the IGP a terrible change to make on the Adriatic in part, in the fishing aspect or in the fishing content of the IGP, so that these questions directed to the Minister should not apply to us. Perhaps Mr. Zekanovic should lose more time, so explain to Mr. Bull, let's say, the Most. We do not need, we know everything that ZERP brings us, what ZERP brings us by joining the EU and what the IGP now brings us as a country when it comes to the fishing aspect of the IGP. As for Mr. Zekanovic, your discovery that you just told us here through WesselFinder, we did it in Croatia in 2005. When such applications were not known, neither existed, nor were the social networks in that part of it clear at the time. We founded the National Search and Rescue Centre in Rijeka. The National Search and Rescue Centre has a picture of the Adriatic in real time. The National Search and Rescue Centre operates on the basis of the AIF system, which means automatic ship identification. Automatic ship identification implies any ship that according to the International... The convention enters the Adriatic must be included, not only in the Adriatic, but it must be permanently included in the Adriatic, in which it has not only the name you said, but it also has tonage and boat and length, everything, crew, everything, the port from which it sailed whether it is both there and where it is going. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] He can make one little, one little nap and shut down the AIF, so you won't see him on what you've read here, you didn't need to read, he can be excluded and risk that the Croatian Maritime Administration is based on a radar system that he owns, because he hid that no one reads him whether or not he's going to report him to the competent fishing inspection, the police, first of all, to the police that this illegal one was obliged to apply to the international convention and he didn't sign up. However, there are ships, it should also be clear to the end that they do not need to have an AIS system and because of such boats, carriages that are below the tone, which he must apply for, which you just said before, he may indeed be there, but if he hunts the tools of fishermen who are not allowed because he did not have to report, if he does not have to hunt the tools that have been banned and at the locations that he is then risked, to identify him and there have been cases of persecution, large numbers, large, significant numbers of Italian chariots that have been persecuted, under which he was being prosecuted because they were entering our territorial sea where they were not allowed to enter at all, or have hunted the wrong tools and in the wrong places in ZERP where they were not, they should not. Therefore, there are certain deficits in the conduct of the Croatian Maritime Administration, but this is one, we are a serious state when it comes to maritimeity, we are a serious state when it comes to our fleet, we are a serious state when it comes to our sailors and the attributes of the Croatian maritime state has few states in the world. Few countries in the world can be measured with Croatia when it comes to attributes because we are the state that knows how to make the most demanding ships, we are the country that can verify because we have the Croatian Register of Ships, we know how to design because there are, before there was a Broding Institute, and now any stronger shipbuilding site can design it, we are a country that has a port of registration, our own captainship, and therefore our flags, etc. And so on and so forth. Therefore, Croatia has something to say here, we should not, as Parliamentarians, have representatives of this and our shipowners, which is very important, sometimes more and more significant, but it is still the Pre-Atlantic tanker sailing, the Sailing Oiler, Jadroplova, Croatia participates in this maritime world. So, I wouldn't underestimate ours or our maritime administration, and the fact that a significant number, I don't know at this point, I didn't go to that app, but I can now contact our, our, our center in Rijeka, there's a special number, all the fishermen know when they can report it, they know at this point all those ships that you just read about and have everything possible about them, all the possible data. Therefore, it is not an open sea, it is a ZERP, they must act and act on what it is, which is the European Commission together with the country of origin, and this has decided with Croatia how and how to act. I can agree that in front of the Maritime Administration of the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries of the Republic of Croatia the challenging time is. I think they passed the exam, they're 7 years old. as far as Croatia is a full member of the EU is our best natural fishing habitat, which is the Apple, it has been protected at EU level. The apple cauldron partly enters into the future Italian GP so that I think it is a challenge for them, that everything they appreciate that a certain kind of fish on the Adriatic should be protected, I think that they also have enough knowledge and capacity to explain to the Italian, or the European Commission and the Italians and all other EU Member States, as it is in the interest of all, and above all, Croatian fishermen. Therefore, I wouldn't have too many problems about it if it didn't happen, but it should also be in line with the needs of Croatian fishermen. Thus, protecting a part of the Adriatic, that part of the Adriatic that is good to protect, should be protected in the interest of all our fishermen. What is ahead of us is that first after Friday when I believe that we will, I'm sure that we will declare the IGP at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is to send a diplomatic note to the United Nations, that instead of the ZERP, the exclusive economic belt is now to be declared. In this part, Croatia will also have one difference which is not a big difference, which is in fact the addition of certain content between the international Conventions on the Law of the Sea and which will be an upgrade of the ZERP itself. So it's an event where I see the size of that event in what we did with the Italians. Because if we didn't, if it was just us that declared IGP, which I said was a small upgrade to the IGP, which wasn't done by the Italians, we didn't do enough to protect the Adriatic. We can work as hard as we want, protect our half of the Adriatic. But the Adriatic is a half-closed sea. If he is not protected and in that part that is now open to the sea, and since the IGP of the Italian Republic did not do much, we did not do much. I also signed the Ballast Water Management Declaration myself. We are the first state in the Adriatic to prescribe and adopt a regulation on the handling and management of ballast waters. So we proposed declaring the Adriatic especially sensitive marine area to the International Maritime Organisation. So we did everything to protect the Adriatic. Now I think the Italian Republic is going to those steps that went, which went to Croatia a long time ago. Thank you very much. We will support this amendment and vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27145	Thank you, too. Mr. Miro Bulj will now speak in front of the Club of Representatives of the Most.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27146	Thank you very much. Ministers with associates, a hundred years have passed since the Rapal Agreements when the Italians along with the contract, the Kingdom of Italy together with the Kingdom of SHS, i.e. The Kingdom of Yugoslavia later and their King then signed that our islands, the coast, parts of the coast belong to Italy. We've spent hundreds of years being usurped by the Italians. So it hasn't been since yesterday. It's been a century. That's what I was talking about. And at that very time, the Italian Chamber of Parliament, through certain MPs, sought to declare an exclusive economic belt because of circumstances I would not speak of at this time, and these are circumstances quite different from what the minister is talking about here. For a hundred years there was a battle over usurping, defending, oranja, which I was saying for five years in the Parliament, I proposed to the Croatian Parliament on two occasions along with my colleagues from the club. And just yesterday, I followed Andrew Plenkovic closely, and I listened to our distinguished prime minister and said to no one but the Most. Nothing from the Most. And I am glad that he accepted my proposal and that he changed his position and opinion, that ZERP and the exclusive economic belt were not the same. I'm sorry it wasn't accepted before. Not just before when we from MOST were here, but before, while other parliamentary representatives also declared it. Indeed, in those five years we have tried hard, but there is also this other side of the truth. We must primarily have the Coast Guard and all the conditions and all the elements that we must protect our exclusive economic belt. And we have to work on it. What my colleague Bacic said earlier is that we have a shipbuilding. Yes, we do, but our shipbuilding is falling. That's not good. In Brodotrogir, even people don't get paid. I expect that our mind will return that has left the shipyard and that we will build our ships as well as our HOS, Croatia's Coast Guard. So in this way we will protect the exclusive economic belt. That I am now going back to the circumstances in which the Croatian Parliament previously refused to bring these proposals, whether it will not bring, whether to arrest or locate Gotovina, whether the EU should be added to the EU, whether to humiliate the Italians, whether it should be awarded to Tajania to a friend from Andrej Plenkovic who even said that Italy, that Istria and Dalmatia are parts of Italy. It's one fascist act. A secretive friend of ours is our prime minister. I think that's where you tribal being much sharper then. And no one has the right to usurp regardless of these shameful Rapal contracts from that time done by the Serbian king to harm that kingdom where Croatia was also drowned in shameful contracts. As far as the date itself is concerned, I hope, the amendment which is being discussed here that the respected ministers will finally have the majority, and I call for the proposals that have passed the procedure, in this case the Croatian Chamber of Commerce will be put to the vote because of the importance not only of the declaration of the exclusive economic belt. It'll be five, six days before or after we've done nothing for 10 years. Here's the secretary of state knows what discussions we had in the Split-Dalmatia County when she assured me down there with the mayor and county councilors who voted against the declaration, the County of Split-Dalmatia which I proposed was also the Sibenik-Knin County given the Most Councils in both the coastal and the Rijeka,... The coastal-goran and Dubrovnik and no county has accepted the declaration of exclusive economic belt. [[You don't understand.]] A declaration that would be sent to me in support of the coastal counties of none. Even then, it was with me that he defended his colleague, Tonci Tadic, where he said it was necessary to declare an exclusive economic belt even by calling for 2013 at the time, even then it was the SDP government that the European Commission had developed an independent institution strategy. She has drawn up a strategy where she has caused huge damages, which of the 150m euros seems to me to be 150m euros per year minimal damage for Croatia for 2013. And that's when the ministry sided with the prime minister. I'm not going into international circumstances, nor am I going to grind, nor can I grind, but the fact is that it's 100 years that Italian fishing fleets have been unhindered by dams, eagles, exhausting our Adriatic and that's a fact. I'm not going in here right now that I'm hitting on something and I want to provoke any scandal right now, but that's the fact that we're not... They even knew how to lift the middle finger to our cops or the people who did that were publicly depicted by their fishermen. [[You don't understand.]] And our fishermen felt threatened here. But the announcement of an exclusive economic belt I said so and now I stand behind it no matter what anyone suggested, what most of them suggested after... Turns out, my favorite thing was to mention my colleague Bačić because he often convinced me that the exclusive economic belt and ZERP had no difference. [[You don't understand.]] I particularly enjoyed it, and I believe that it is a solemn act and that this act of passing the declaration of the exclusive economic belt when we voted it this is just an amendment to the date of adoption and entry into force, I think it's a really good act. However, if we do not meet these conditions that I have said, it means providing coast guard and protecting maximum protection through European institutions that have the strength that the Italians cannot do what they want, as the Italian fishing fleets so far do what they want. So we're still making huge efforts. Unfortunately, in time and after the death of the second Franjo Tudjman and in the time of the Government of Racan, after Sanader, Croatia always broke around an exclusive economic belt. It was even brought in, so it can't just be an economic belt, so they brought in a strange beak they called it ZERP. What's the matter with you, ZERP, that the public knows? ZERP is like buying a car without a car, a mirror, a chess driver, a hood and two seats. So they have read what they can and the full application of the exclusive economic belt is clearly much better if it had been passed at a time when we were not within the European Union. However, and now it is better that the neighbouring state declares an exclusive economic belt. But no one in this international law in Croatia had the right to dispute until now. It was our international right and we are signatories in 1972 if I am not mistaken, it was our right to be a Croatian people and therefore it is a sovereign right that we must take advantage of. And that's why I said the other day it was a solemn act, a solemn act, but the Minister's on you, that's why. on you, at the institution of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Croatian Government, the Ministry of Interior, the Croatian Army, all the institutions, the Ministry of Agriculture to do everything and maximum to protect the fish fund. The Ministry of Environment, balaic waters mentioned by counterpart Bačić we need to know that we have the surface of Split stain on the Adriatic. It's just lucky we have the currents of the Adriatic that we have, then it doesn't come to our shores. And we know what this would mean to us is that we have a little less than 20% of the GDP of tourism that is direct and indirect and much more. So it's one key resource now. So, our Adriatic, our sea of these 24,000 square miles doesn't get us just... Islands of some kind. [[You don't understand.]] It's a lie. There's also cultural goods. There are submersibles that we must protect and protect cultural well-being. The Adriatic is the sea from Zadar to Rijeka, we have up nowhere more than 100 meters away, it's a shallow sea. There's no depth anywhere. It's familiar. We have a lot here because there's been a lot of transit through history we have a lot of archaeologically significant findings and that we can as a state and preserve, rather than benefit ourselves. Who knows how long it's been taken out, sold as our sea has been modeled, carved. So I personally said that day and now I'm standing by it, for five years I've been repeating it, proposing, giving a solution. I am pleased that the Croatian government has accepted my proposal regardless of the words that are often referred to by Andrej Plenkovic and that my words have been accepted and walked into the declaration of an exclusive economic belt, and it would be much better if it had been before. It's up to us to secure that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27147	And now final Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic will speak in front of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27148	Dear Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. First, I will briefly look back at the debate of my colleague Bačić, who was in one moderate tone and in fact I agree with everything you said. And as far as the search and rescue center is concerned, I am aware that it exists, and so it is and there can be monitored ships as can be easily monitored today not only on WesselFinder, but on hundreds of other applications. And I didn't discover America, and I suppose the minister knows about this app, and he knows that right now what you know and you are currently in the Croatian part of the IGP really Italian fishermen and that's what's the fact and that nothing has changed in relation to ZERP absolutely nothing, not a single thing. The only thing is that we're a little closer maybe let's say we took one step to do it, we created predispositions so we could protect, so now we've, well, we've created predispositions so we can protect that space and, but in terms of fishing, nothing. About some other stuff, something. My colleagues to Stier would say, as far as the EU is concerned, I am a Croatian, a Croatian citizen, and I consider myself a sovereign, and as a representative in HS, I am not surrounded by 5200 people who want me to put my country first. I don't care about the EU before Croatia. After Croatia, yes, but not at all costs. At all costs, all I have is Croatia. Well, then, if someone is going to question the EU tomorrow in this House and if we agree that it is good for Croatia, goodbye to the EU. I'm up for it, I don't know if you are, but I know that some, I'll assume with great certainty, Andrej Plenkovic would, behold, I would sin on the soul, rather sacrifice Croatia than the EU. Your Honor, it is legitimate to defend your Prime Minister, it is legitimate. Of course, it's your Prime Minister, you're his minister, he has delegated you here and you're like his minister, you'll defend him, that's logical. As legitimately I attack him and that's fine. But, Minister, really, I'm not going to say that you've disappointed me because I'm kind of used to these things both from you and from other colleagues, but I'm calling me to make a lie. You didn't tell me what the lie was because I didn't tell a single lie. And I will repeat it again once again and again this moment and tomorrow, and the day after tomorrow, the Italian chariots will roll the Croatian bottom, that is, the Croatian part of the IGP and that is what is true and you will not admit it or admit it, however it may be for you. It's me who's going to drop me off here and say that I told the truth. You know who told the lie here alone? Only you. The moment you said I was telling the truth, and you know I told it all the truth. And the fact that I exposed you and the fact that I exposed you, even Bacic was honest there, and he said that nothing changes, and that's that and that's the truth. So be like Bacic, so he's telling the truth. Nothing changes. Okay, about fishing, nothing, nothing. Here, I'm glad we agree. Absolutely nothing. In view, we can work artificial islands. Great. We can use the energy of sea currents and wind. Great. I'm up for it. But the meaning of the IGP declaration was fishing. And when we talk about protection, I've really listened to you more or less carefully and I've never gone away if I've never had anything better to do, and I'm really in the Parliament, first coming to the Croatian Parliament, among the first. Look at the card I'm dragging amongst the first. And here are mostly all the MPs who come among the first and the last to leave. And then call me to get out of here, no, I, this is my place of work, I work here. So, dear Minister, you must understand that both my intentions and other MPs from the opposition here are real and honorable and that we will try to achieve some political point. But, tell me or anyone that he's told some fact falsely on purpose, that he'll get some political points, but that's not right and that's not good because.../incomprehensible/... and now you'll have the word here and I'll stay here and I'll wait for you and here, I invite you to tell me the one thing I've said wrong. Now, as far as Plenkovic is concerned, my opinion of him is the opposite of yours. I think he's a very smooth European politician who is primarily a globalist and a sovereign and a gram. Not a gram.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27149	Next final debate on behalf of Representatives' Club Mosta MP Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27150	Here I would just briefly once again say what the importance of declaring an exclusive economic belt is. Only the declaration of an exclusive economic belt shows that we are a sovereign state. The way and the way that it happened, it's now a question that we need to talk about. I personally remember when we were entering the EU, pressure from arresting the generals, courting Carla Del Ponte, the whole pressure was huge and he was breaking through the declaration of an exclusive economic belt and protecting that part. I personally know, I think that when we voted for the EU in the year in which it was voted, we changed the Constitution that 50% of people should not go to the polls. Those are facts, this is not me I'm against, for, for this, for that. I wish all those promises that were made when we were entering the EU, respected ministers, yes, not that we had less 500 thousand people, I wish there were 500 thousand more people left. I wish my Zagora was full of people, full of life. But as far as the exclusive economic belt is concerned, it is up to us, the Croatian Government, to provide material and technical resources and human resources in the protection of the exclusive economic belt and to meet all the components of this proposal, meaning that we have people who will protect our ships, the Coast Guard, because the fact that we do not have a good Coast Guard. We've got shipbuilding, we're sick of having our Adriatic, it's huge potential, it's just a question we want to use it. We used to be at the top of the ship's production. But I know we have the strength and the ability to build a good Coast Guard ship, I know it. Then we try to do it, our brains, our hands, our people who can do it. We must ensure that we carry out the maximum protection within which we are currently assigned. We can't invent any other framework now, but that the sovereign right of HS to declare an exclusive economic belt is. I'm sorry it wasn't before, I'll always say it, I'm sorry it wasn't sooner, I'm sorry, but I'm glad that Andrej Plenkovic, Branko Bačić, president of the HDZ Club and prime minister listened to me, my proposal accepted and went to the IGP announcement, it's my favorite colleague Bacic of all. That's my favorite for what? Because there's no party interest if it's a national issue, no. We have to protect the ecological part, so I'm worried when I see that there are nine hydrocarbon fields in Split-Dalmatia County, nine. We have to worry about respected ministers, not just you, you as an MVEP your role, but other bodies within the government, institutions to protect the Adriatic and the ecological and the fish fund and, of course, everything we have in the submarine and that importance. 24,000 km2 we gain means we extend our rights, certain rights which I consider to be much greater than those that degrade the IGP. Whether we make it or not, that's the question. It's a submersible, submersible control. We with IGP have the right to control the submarine, we get that right. So, hopefully, I expect that only the IGP declaration is a solemn act, but not enough, this second part of the operational, technical, implementation part is important. And that the smallest item is important to declare the full application of the IGP is our right and no one can challenge the Croatian people. We're under pressure remembering Haaga Carla Del Ponte doing things catastrophic, just to get to the bottom of it, and that's starting with those ugly roars, four roars I'm not going to repeat them, I'm not going to repeat them. However, unity is important in the IGP declaration as a solemn act, and the institutions, the current government, the future governments are expected to fully implement the IGP, which is the more difficult, much more difficult part to apply what we say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27151	Final debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, distinguished representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27152	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues. In order not to remain responsible for the end of this debate, I think it is necessary to say that Croatia has joined the coast guard organisation the moment ZERP entered into force, though not for all EU members, but nevertheless the MEVP in 2004. when the ZERP came into force, it sent a diplomatic note and since then it has actually been led as a Croatian protected eco-fishing belt in the secretariat of the International Convention. Then we set out to organise the Coast Guard, the Coast Guard was entrusted to the military part of the Croatian state or Croatian administration in such a way that Croatian Navys were singled out by the Croatian Coast Guard. And it's not true, I don't know why you want to say from this pay phone that Croatia doesn't have an appropriate fleet that can control the IGP. Of course it would be good, and that's what it's about to do to get better equipment, build stronger and bigger ships. But immediately the ship "Andrija Mohorovici" and eight other ships from the Croatian Navy were added to the coast guard, the drone, plus there are all the entire ships if I can say so, these are significant strong boats operated by port captains, there are about 60 boats of port captains who can also be monitored, plus serious ships by Croatian maritime police. After that, the Ministry of Defence went and built, which Mr. Bulj knows the ship "Omiš" in the Split Shipyard. It's not exactly a small ship 43 meters long, 28 knots achieve speed with proper weapons, it's a ship that can control quality. And at this point it's agreed, it's being built, it's already set up, and the locusts I think are already at a very high stage in the construction of ships, it's been arranged for four additional ships, so they'll be deployed along the Adriatic. With what I just said, which is a real-time radar system that can track and monitor all ships, and hopefully those boats that include their AIF or brake what we want to call them, follow in real-time the situation in the Croatian part of the Adriatic. So it's a good thing we're standing here in the Parliament for more and more. It is up to us to allow further filling of the coast guard through the budget we adopt, but I have often seen parliamentary opposition MPs propose amendments for their schools, for their kindergartens, roads to usually download there from some items that contribute to the safety of Croatia, equipment of the Croatian Army and arms, etc. I've often raised my hand to not take off those money that the Department of Defense will be able to fill, build a fleet if you want a naval one, but sometimes it's very important to get some cheap political point in a way to build a school that has no license, no location, nothing at all, it's nice to hear it, but then as a removal and let's not buy ships, and then we'll talk here from this pay phone that Croatia doesn't do ships, that there's no money and that we can't control the IGP. Therefore, there is room for upgrades and I expect that, for example, Mr. Bulj, when the next budget suggests at least one more ship and that he will say that a school in Sinj should not be built or anything like that. So, we'll be there, tracking how it's going to happen together. And I should say, colleague Bulj, I support this decision, this is a good, appropriate moment in which we are. And I congratulated in my opening replica to Mr. Minister in this way, that we are in one good neighbourly European spirit in full the IGP declaration and we and our Italian neighbours on the other side of the Adriatic. In this way we will really protect the Adriatic, and I agree that the Ministry of Agriculture will have more to say after this when it comes to further protection of the fish fund in the Adriatic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27153	Final debate on behalf of the promoter, distinguished Minister Gordan Grlic-Radman.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27154	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here in this final word when we heard again here by fourth it seems to me a way, actually for the second time after this change. I think I can still be very pleased because it was enough and constructive. As if we needed another final moment in order to, but in a more peaceful way, I would say a way, a framework to discuss an exclusive economic belt which is of course a national interest, which again enters the sphere and European policies, us as EU members leading us towards a more civilised dimension, one of a greater degree of protection above all from third countries. Because there must be order in the EU. Those are the values. But as rights are used, so must also be sought and respected. Of course there were a lot of arguments here in the debate and Mr. Bačić here and as Korčulanin it certainly has its own experience on its own. Mr. Bulj, this is the right moment, the right moment, the right moment to declare an exclusive economic belt. So nothing is an accident, we are not random people and the Croatian state is not our random state. Mr. Zekanovic, you're also good to speak, I would absolutely very constructively. What I didn't like about it is that you've also disappointed my prime minister, the Prime Minister. Allow me from you 16 years old and when the Homeland War began I returned to Croatia from a safe Switzerland, 1991. You were 16, 17 years old. Andrej Plenkovic, not to speak of it now, was then a young Croatian diplomat I know him, capable, patriotic, sovereign. That's what I'm saying. So, I'm talking in my own experience, I'm telling you about facts, and you're talking by feeling. And you admit it yourself, you were a little there when you said that logically I was criticizing him. So, in fact, you're criticizing him without fact, and I can tell you that I've been working with him for almost 30 years and that I'm honored to be his minister, Andrej Plenkovic, and that I don't know who could lead the Croatian state. And that he is in front of everything else and not Croatia, that's not true. Look, I don't have any, I don't need anything in my life to be addicted to anyone right now. I am committed to the Croatian state it was my same dream. You as a young man fantasize, you have dreams of freedom, of Croatian freedom. There was one in the last debate, so he said, I couldn't replicate it then because the Rules of Procedure wouldn't let it make any difference, it couldn't compare the DDR and Yugoslavia. Right, Yugoslavia was even worse than the DDR, we know how it fell apart and we know how it was in that former Yugoslavia. So my experience, if you'll excuse me, allow me. Well, you're a representative, of course, and this is the legislative authority. Mr Plenkovic has received very many preferential votes, and he also speaks of the same confidence he enjoyed in Croatian citizens and finally the Croatian Democratic Community, which, with all respect of course, you have received, and you are now a representative in the Croatian Parliament. What I think is the fact that the Croatian state is not a agricultural cooperative or is not a agricultural pharmacy with all respect and agricultural society and agricultural pharmacy. And if there were any ministers who even ruined the farm pharmacy. Therefore, it cannot be given, managed by anyone. For the state to work, it is necessary to recognise the interests of the Croatian state, but above all Croatian people, Croats, Croatian citizens. I can tell you on my own that it is an honor to be a Croatian minister. I think my father, who will tomorrow be two years from whom he died, would be very proud to be the Croatian minister. I am honored to be in the government of Andrej Plenkovic and to fight for Croatian interests. Of course you must cooperate with other countries, you must be visible, you must contribute to peace and stability above all BiH where Croats live, so fight for the survival of Croats anywhere, it is ultimately our constitutional obligation. One is the Croats in BiH as the fewest and most vulnerable but constitutive people, the other are Croatian minorities and the other is the Croatian diaspora, Croatia's strong Croatian emigration. When we talk about the interest of national Andrej Plenkovic, then I can tell you right now that I was present at this meeting with Sassoli, the President of the European Parliament where he put up a protest over those four European parliamentarians who were adventurous, I guess, wanted to make a big one along with SDP's some representatives in the European Parliament, and here in Zagreb, and they were looking for protection both Andrej Plenkovic and Minister Bozinović and myself, I guess, to allow them to just cross the green border through the forest and so on. They thought it was somewhere to cross the line any way you want. So, I think that they have blasphemed themselves in this way as parliamentarians, the country from which they originate, but also European values. I can't cross illegal immigrants, no one can cross past the border crossing, that's why it's called the border crossing. And Croatian police keep the Croatian borders, but also protects the borders that are also the EU's borders. We share the longest border of over 1,000 km from BiH, so much about when it is in the interest because it was said that, if it were not for Croatia's sovereignty ahead, it is Croatian, what else would be Croatian interests. And as for the influence of Andrej Plenkovic on Brussels, I can also tell you from my own experience I have followed it and I know that many have also become this and von der Leyen where he has strongly advocated himself through the European People's Party, so that Andrej Plenkovic also enjoys his reputation in the European People's Party, and also as a respectable official because he is not only strong enough to be a state but you must affirm the state in the international world. And for that you need courtesy, education, culture, patriotism, and you need to know what your job is and how to negotiate, how to talk. Of course, under these conditions of the pandemic and which no one expected, none of us expected it, none of us could have imagined that we would have an invisible enemy, and above all, every evil again comes, every evil comes to another evil, we had this earthquake in Zagreb, we had the same earthquake in Banovina. It's all very difficult situations to face, you have to be on the ground. In the end, I, as foreign minister, also lobbied strongly with other ministers, were once every three weeks three ministers in Banovina when never in history did any of the ministers go further perhaps from Zagreb or possibly sea, sea cities. So be assured that the Croatian government is doing everything to improve above all in the interest of the health of Croatian people, Croatian citizens. We're actually the sixth country that, under the epidemiological conditions, is actually the best thing to do, and by the contagion that we're now mortality from 20 places to 19 places. So when we're actually talking about all these phenomena that you're all about freedom, protecting the truth, I mean you know when you're talking, I didn't say that you wouldn't be telling the truth, you know, but if you're just picking up the brakes, then someone really sees it, I can show you a whole other picture and I'll show it to you after the debate and you'll see what the situation is like with the brakes and where it's thicker. Not in the Croatian part not exactly, but in the Italian part. And the issue of protection and what Mr. Bacic was saying well means both the Coast Guard and finally the issue of another special surveillance as an inspector's control, so there can't be chaos, I don't think there can be chaos in the Adriatic if we're just doing a higher level of protection, and that's a declaration of an exclusive economic belt. So it's not just fish resources, it's the environment. Because you also mentioned the oil of the Split-Dalmatia County and all together, of course, that it cannot be neglected, neglected precisely that aspect and green transition. I mean, you can't, so you can't run one for me to protect the fish fund, and at the same time, you can't do anything about the environmentals. Is this, therefore, an absolutely higher degree of safe protection, I think and ZERP was of course what it enabled, but this naturally makes it possible even more. But this is primarily common protection, you can't have the entire Adriatic, the Adriatic this protects unilaterally, there can't be only one country, so there must be those other countries that share the most and are the most responsible for fishing for the Adriatic, and these are the means along with Croatia there is so Italy. It was a beautiful gesture for our Croatia when Slovenian President Pahor also welcomed the trilateral meeting, including Slovenia, but I say but he also said that Croatia has the international right to mean a sovereign state and has the right to declare an exclusive belt and is not obliged to inform or inform their minister, but we did so anyway to create both best and initial grounds for resolving all our trust, to strengthen bilateral bilateral co-operation. Take care of everything we do and when other ministers come, so we do, we invite them, we draw attention to our interests, and when he was Secretary of State of America, when he was a Russian minister, when they were all other ministers. So we do it not from some protocol but from exactly what we want to do to show that Croatia is an important visible factor in the International Community. And the question also, of course, of Biden's administration when it comes to Bosnia and Herzegovina clearly, when this question was the note that we received and that surprised us. So, we are now truly that there is no harmony between the Bosnian-Herzegovina leadership on whether there is a note, because not everyone reacted equally. So there's no unique view of it. Therefore, the exclusive economic belt does not endanger BiH, so as to the Peljega Bridge, which is 500 metres from the border, which is so visible and transient, so lit up that the largest ships, where they can cross the territorial sea, can reach the open sea through internal waters. So, with the so-called. harmless smooth passage, so where you can also lay cables, free navigation, fly over. All of this is what we explained earlier both to the Montenegrin minister and to the Bosnian-Herzegovina minister. But here came a month and a half later that one note that was obviously not in line with the Bosnian-Herzegovic leadership. And since Bosnia and Herzegovina is a multiethnic community, therefore foreign policy is defined in accordance with their constitution. That's why there were different reactions, so we're actually going to be looking in that answer with what we're going to explain first of all is that it doesn't apply, that it doesn't endanger, that there's no one in Bosnia and Herzegovina's influence like it didn't have a ZERP, but we're also going to look for an answer whether that attitude, or that note, is in line with all those representatives of all three peoples. Here I am, in fact, pleased to see you, convinced that I am really glad and here I speak as a truly proud foreign and European minister, the proud Croatian state here before you proud parliamentary representatives of the Croatian Parliament, regretting that here our dear colleague Professor Dr. Miroslav Tudjman. I welcome you and call for a vote here in a few days, to turn off the economic belt. And I think that, really, that's the act, the solemn act that you've already seen, in principle, and you've kind of welcomed and that you'll all be there, I think, that you'll all vote and it'll be really nice to see unity. So, when it comes to the national interest that there is unity then it is a beautiful picture for both Croatians and Croatian citizens when in the Croatian Parliament which is Parliament, which is a reflection of both diversity and should be. That's why there is democracy, that's why we fought, so Croatian defenders gave their lives to have one democracy, to have Croatia, free Croatia, sovereign Croatia where we can speak with argument. So I'm glad here for the second time here even though we've had that debate again here to talk about the importance of the exclusive economic belt, because you've actually made a great contribution and wish you the same further work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27155	We have a few replicas. The first is the distinguished representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27156	Well, Your Honor, you spoke for 17 minutes, I only have a minute. I'll try to tell you what's on my mind as soon as I can. First, unfortunately, I wouldn't have been declared by this belt. I already said that Italy didn't want to declare it, and I'm sorry about that. But I understand why, but I'm sorry. Next, you've been talking about Andrej Plenkovic for a long time. You defend him from his minister's position and I said it was legitimate, but the figures do speak differently when you're talking about him. So we are firmly at the bottom of a scale of the development of European countries, and when we ignore the development and economy of the Marrakech Agreement, the Istanbul Convention, or what is very important to me, for example, to protect life, it has not moved with that finger and could be listed by tomorrow. I've got 20 seconds left, just him, but I'll tell you this. If he were to pass the Life Protection Act tomorrow in this House, I would support him tomorrow, and I would no longer enter this House. And finally, to stay on the subject. Please make sure we have to protect 30% of our sea by 2030. So it's about 50 thousand miles square, 30%.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27157	Replication response. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27158	Thank you very much, Mr. Zekanovic. Thank you for your contribution. I'm actually convinced when we talk, you're saying it's relative. I don't know what you're on, what your experience or information is based on. But if we talk about Andrej Plenkovic and his popularity believe me that if we were re-election to get him more and better off than July 5th, all of us and the Croatian Democratic Community. That's what we're talking about, you know, running the country. It's important you know at this point when citizens expect social stability, when you know it, when there's fear of a future around the pandemic. It is important that we infuse optimism, enthusiasm and take appropriate measures, so that we go in the good direction of strong, safe Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27159	The next replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27160	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, you've expanded your description of your work beyond this subject. We went a little bit to national minorities, a little bit to the consistency of the Croatian people with all the important topics. However, I would only say about all these topics that you listed most of the time you devoted, and I would prefer that you also spoke about these constitutionalities of the Croatian people, of course and national minorities of Croatians as national minorities an example in Serbia that had disastrous, difficult, very hard to live, and you have devoted most to the IGP by thanking Andrej Plenkovic, which is legitimate, it is your legitimate right. But here, above all, it is very important to declare the IGP finally, finally that it has been accepted and that it is applied, to do everything in application and to preserve all that comes from the IGP, that is the key, after what is the solemn act of the declaration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27161	Replication response. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27162	Thank you very much. I mentioned that you unfairly criticized him so I had to react, he's my Prime Minister. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27163	Okay, thank you. The next replica is Honorable Representative Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27164	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister. Until the very end of this debate could be heard critical tones and may be part of pluralism, multilaterals, but it is also the fact that this House will accept this decision by the Government and that is the fact that it will remain and I think it is a message that should be sent to our Croatian citizens from this session, so that the Government proposal will probably get most of all the club representatives in this HS. The fact itself suggests that one responsible policy was conducted precisely because Croatia is a European policy first and thus will protect Croatia's interests on the Adriatic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27165	Minister, any answers?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27166	Thank you very much. Here's a lot of talk I'd say about it and that's all some way of good concessions that go affirmative act of IGP announcement and I'm really looking forward to it, so I'm also praying here, although it's not necessary, but being here at the act of declaring the IGP so here on Friday, if that's possible, I'll be happy to be here with you in some way attending that solemn act. Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, if the Rules of Procedure so allow, I'd be happy to be there.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-0.u27167	Thank you, Minister. Thank you. With this, we've exhausted a full debate on this wheel. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
