ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u42788	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. I wanted to make an unusual and unexpected speech in this House today, and I wanted to talk about Vela Nebolja, Vulin, and these two last praises to people I don't usually praise. And you know why? Because of the way they were uncompromisingly dealing with that monster. We do not have a problem with crime, but we do have it in the Croatian judiciary so I wanted to dedicate this free speech to him, however, as I became a man of task in the Homeland Movement as Pero Brucic in Dinam, I was given the task of responding to calls for attacks by Mr. Pupovac on the Homeland Movement, on Škor, on Prkačina, on the HOS, so I will start with HOS. So, in an interview in a Rijeka-based New List of All Weapons and Tooles by Hos and a greeting "For Home Ready" and the mention of race law, etc. So, Mr. Pupovac, the one who feels like a member and representative of the Serb people must take great care when he mentions racial laws. For Hitler, racial laws had to be taken place everywhere, but the Serbian people, by their own free will in 1805, passed a racial law for Karadjord Petrovic in the sixth year of the 1st Serbian uprising and were repeated by Obrenovici, even the most European, wisest, most liberal Mihajlo Obrenovic, who passed one racial law, particularly two racial laws or two apparitions that were passed in 1940. for the first Yugoslavia. Although they were proposed by Slovene Korošec, it is known who ordered him and whose idea it was. And these two racial indications were about like this, one forbids Jews to enrol in higher education institutions, and the other forbids Jews to trade food. And what's going on? Croatia then decides by its own free will, Croatia's Ban Šubasic suspends the law in Croatia, tells us that the Croats are not unique and we will not. One situation was in '41, another was in '40. However, as far as the attack on Mr. Skor is concerned, I don't know where you found that scora's visible anti-Semitism when he's a person he looks at first and sees that he has nothing against any collectiveity. Well, Mr. Skoro asked one of the most normal questions. So it's about a lady who hasn't won any knowledge contests, who wasn't on the Quickest Finger quiz, etc. but which, due to the agreement between the SDSS and HDZ, came, so did Joza, and came to a position which she obviously was not up to. There's nothing more to talk about. As for me and my indiscriminateness in the Serbian Orthodox Church, I can't wait to justifiably point out any of my failures as regards the first, one completely pointless contract between the Croatian state and the Serbian Orthodox Church, and then I will be happy to go back through the history of Serbian Orthodoxism since 1217. to this day, and to point out that the Serbian Orthodox Church only appears in these areas on 17.6.1920, with Alexander Karadjordjevic. Everything I said about the non-existent Episcopal Council, about the fictional president, about the illegality of the Serbian Orthodox Church in Croatia stands and I stand behind it. Also, I will repeat what I said that it is quite the opposite of the canon of Orthodoxism to establish an Orthodox church in the neighbouring country because Orthodoxy says that religious borders go there as well as state borders. We obviously need to open the debate so that the introduction speaks for 20 minutes so that there are serious replicas there so that in the end we can help the current Croatian government solve this problem which is the same for the Serbian and Croatian people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u42858	And we're going to the 11th debate on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club will speak to a respected colleague, Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u42859	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Since I didn't get the assignment I'm going to talk about what I decided to talk about, and about the nads, the nads, the nads, I wouldn't tell the nadsmen. When they prevail and prevail as they try to prevail in this House, I will find a way to talk about it. What I want to talk about is actually what I would like to talk about it is a broadband Internet in the area of Bania, Korduna, Like, the good part of Northern Dalmatia. What I would like to talk about is smart technology throughout Croatia, and then in these areas, but there is no talk about it. There you can talk about it eventually when it intercedes setting up more base stations for mobile phones, so people can use them in the whole area as they use them in all parts of the Republic of Croatia. What many people or rarely who do not have in the Republic of Croatia have is that they have a way to their own house, and in the area of Bania and in many other areas of war, people who are devastated do not have access to their home, not in the area of Glina, not in the territory of Petrinja, not in the territory of the Court, nor in the area of the smaller municipalities of Sisak-Moslavina and of the Carlova County, I want to talk about it. Everyone and every state is obliged to ensure that their property does not fail, that they have access to their home, whether the home was permanent or occasional or temporary. And this is what we are looking for and we expect to be done in a plan to revitalise the area affected by the earthquake and all other areas treated as areas of special state concern. People who have either built these roads themselves because of the weakened communities, the destroyed communities, now have no social opportunities and the social powers to bring it back. And this must be the first plan and the first job of the state before it starts to rebuild the houses, to build a basic infrastructure, to those who do not yet have the power to provide them with that electricity, and many, unfortunately, many who do not have roads, who, which the water has taken away, which the hedges have grown, which the trucks that extract wooden wealth from that area have destroyed from various private owners or state-owned enterprises, want these roads to be a priority and that the state, along with the JLS, make some kind of new deal in that area. I say a new deal because every man in that area is precious. In the area of Ličko-Senj County today lives less than 4 people per km2, in the area of the town of Gline in certain areas this figure is also less than 4 people per km2. Who cares about that? So those who care about it, what kind of laws did Obrenovic have during his reign? Or what laws the Serbian Orthodox Church has concluded with the Republic of Croatia as it has concluded with all other religious communities in the Republic of Croatia. At this point, we don't care if the end starts with the process of resuscitation. The process of resuscitation should begin with the construction of infrastructure. And as the American presidents of the 20's and 30's at the time of the serious economic crisis, there should be chicken in every pot. So we also say here to every house there should be a road, there should be an access road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u42860	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure has been reported by my colleague Prkachin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u42861	238th century 5th, I am neither a historian nor a quasi historian, Mr. Pupovac is trying to insult me. I'm just a Croatian patriot who thinks knowing the national past is a measure of patriotism and nothing more. I didn't come here to take an entrance exam at the Faculty of Philosophy, or run to be a professor, but simply to represent my people's interests in HS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u42862	My colleague Pracchin, he didn't mention you by your last name and name, Mr. Pupovac, so I don't think there's been any injuries to the Rules of Procedure. In fact, you use this for a replica, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I'm giving you a heads-up. The seventh debate, the club of representatives of HSS and HSU, a respected colleague of Silvano Hrelja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u42884	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I believe you would agree that something that carries an epithet of crisis is only worth a limited period of time during the crisis. The only exception could be the constant movement from bad to worse for the pensioners and this could be interpreted as a crisis in continuity. In the years 2009 and 2009 the Government and the Parliament introduced crisis taxes, reduced pensions under special regulations over £3500 by 10%, introduced pension tax, harras and 2 rates of special health contributions for pensioners, 1% for those with pensions above €3500 and 3% for those with pensions above the average net salary. After the first suspension of their pension, the defenders rebelled, and then Minister Milinovic suspended a further obligation to pay 3% of the health contribution. HSU then emerged from the HDZ coalition because of the haraks and such exceptions. Watch what I'm talking about today, it's not a social priority because it's about well-being pensioners, but injustice is a great injustice, it's about double taxation. It's a measure that was supposed to be temporary but the rest because who's going to talk about well-being pensioners in a country with so many poor people? Here I am because they call me because they write to me, because it's my duty. Retirement burden is over 4000 kn tax of 10% plus tax plus an additional contribution of 3% paid by all with a pension higher than average salary, now it is 6724 kn and last year it was 6454 kuna. Someone with a pension of 7000 kn pays 350 taxes, 84 kn cut if he lived in Zagreb and 210 kn of that contribution, a total of 594 kn per month or 7128 kn per year or one pension to the state. These people had big salaries, lots of internships, they were charged contributions and contributions, taxes, limited pensions, and now they make up groups of about 30,000 pensioners who over the past 12 years have paid more than 900 million dollars for health care in the state budget that they themselves have no idea what that money is going for. Just because they're not socially endangered doesn't mean they're not cut off. Why are they the only ones being discriminated against? Cows of muses while others are excluded. Why does this crisis only last for them? Are they the ones invited to save the health care? If so, let them be told and let at least one improvement be shown in health care achieved in the contribution. I repeat, it's introduced as a crisis, it's introduced as temporary, it's simply left because we can't have anyone, this is mature people of mine, for a lawsuit against the state, but it should be in order. I tried to get rid of it in 2014 and 2015, I had a promise to get rid of it in 2016, but we couldn't get citizens' trust. Dear pensioners, know that they count on your silence, count on your division, and I see more and more, count on your age because age is what is common and a pensioner with 2,000 kn and that of 7,000 kuna, over the year. Some are ashamed of their low pensions and others are high, and the shame should be those who forget what laws they have passed and laws that damage and make people unhappy. This is another hint of one injustice after many, many calls from our pensioners. I was and I remain your voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u42909	The ninth debate, Green-left bloc advocates' club, respected counterpart Bojan Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u42910	Thank you, Mr. President. In politics sometimes it's okay not to know something, no one knows everything. And every once in a while, we'll get a question we don't know the answers to. Then it's much fairer and more humane to say, I don't know, but to cheat and philosophize in trying to make us look smart. However, ignorance is acceptable when it is not related to something that simply needs to be known. Let's say when the foreign minister says he'll close two chapters in the negotiations, he doesn't know which two. Ignorance is allowed even when it represents an exception, not a rule. Prime Minister Plenkovic, however, has a very serious problem with ignorance. His ignorance has already been discussed in this assembly, but rather than the prime minister realizes that he should inform himself about all the affairs of his party colleagues and colleagues, he persists in his ignorance. Plenkovic needs to be understood. I'm sure it wouldn't be easy for anyone to run a party with a verdict where the best would be hard to find 15, 16 people without an affair. It's easier to be gentle in ignorance. However, the prime minister's ignorance is paid by citizens and citizens of Croatia. And it's not just money as in the case of loans signed by two current ministers by the defendant Gabriela Zalac, the former Mercedes minister of which the prime minister certainly didn't know. The prime minister's ignorance of citizens pays with their health as well as in the event of a shameful scandal with the vaccination platform. Some kinds of ignorance are unfortunately very literally deadly. Croatia needs a premium that knows or a prime minister because the one who doesn't know, doesn't see, doesn't hear and doesn't want to see and hear clearly doesn't have the capacity for the duty he is acting and the responsibility this House has entrusted him with, this country, these people deserve better. If the prime minister doesn't change, the citizens themselves will simply change the prime minister, it's only a matter of time and number of victims of ignorance in that time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u42983	The eighth debate, the Center and GLAS Representatives Club and Honorable Representative Anka Mrak Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u42984	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in the first half of the 12 months last year, we were here until morning to discuss the interpretation of the non-preparation of the health system on the crown. We were saying that Prime Minister Plenkovic, Minister Beros and the entire government had enough time to predict and prepare things as they belonged. Of course, the ruling majority voted that we were wrong, that what we're saying had nothing to do with the truth, that everything was perfect and blooming roses. But colleagues and colleagues from HDZ and associated parties have been convinced many times so far that truth and reality do not ask for the majority in the assembly. The number of hands you have in the assembly has nothing to do with what's really going on. And so we rewind the movie four months away, we're in April this year, and we see that everything we've written in the interpellation is true. Because of the unpreparedness and incredible creaminess of the platforms through which vaccination was to be organised and co-ordinated, it was likely that there was not enough time in more than a year to predict that vaccination would begin at one point and that we needed an organization. It's really a surprise. As a matter of fact, in the debate, HDZ fighters competed on who would more praise health preparedness. So far away that some particularly up - to - date young hopes have tried to claim that we are attacking sisters and doctors. There's only one thing we didn't write four months ago in our interpellation, and now in case of vaccination, it appears. Suspected of guessing and corruption. My dear HDZs, what would you do if you didn't have corruption? You don't seem to be able to breathe without giving a friend or best man a job somewhere, so get a mustache on it together. Even a crown and a vaccination can't be done without the citizens' money pouring right into your pockets, and for the vaccination who cares. As a matter of fact, a home friend and a manual photographer took $5 million for an app he did on a free program and apparently only has one flaw, it doesn't work. Health Minister Beros, this great hope of the new reformed HDZ, shamelessly assigns millions of jobs to friends amidst the horrors he has brought health care to. He assures us that the services say that everything is fine and refuses to take any responsibility for as produced by his vaccination platform. He says so, Beroche, that it's not true that the platform doesn't work, but maybe it just doesn't work the way we want it to. What is the exact difference I suppose Beros and Plenkovic know, and how the daily testimony of the reported platform has been erased, over 65 years of age and chronic patients who are still waiting for a call as well as doctors of general medicine. I really don't know, maybe we should organise a vote in the assembly and then declare that everything works perfectly or better to vote that everything works perfectly, that we've vaccinated 50% of the population, that we beat the crown thanks to the Beroshe platform because if your majority of the vote is in the vote, then that's exactly the way it is. It is clear that Minister Beros must leave after everything he has afforded the citizens and ruined and what literally saves their lives, but we should not be fooled that this will solve a problem and health care will work. Beros is the minister because Plenkovic placed him in the post and the primary responsibility lies with Prime Minister Plenkovic because as long as he is prime minister and HDZ in power, we will sink deeper and deeper while the incompetent and corrupt ministers are changing as on tape and not only in health but also in all other restaurants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u43065	5th debate of the Croatian Sovereigns Club and esteemed colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u43066	Dear President HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. Christmas time is long over, and the next Christmas is very far away. However, it is only today that the city of Sibenik is being broken up. Christmas trees don't break up, but they break up fighting, as they would tell me in Sibenik, smurfs, bushes around the dump site of "Bikarac". What's it break up with? Of the piled nylon bags, we'd say in Sibenik, a bag, a bag that has thousands, hundreds of them near that dump. Now, the question is, why is it breaking up? Why are ten workers of the Sibenik "Purity" and the Bikarac companies on the ground yesterday and diligently collecting bags? Because Comrade Plenkovic is coming to Sibenik today. He is coming today to remind the Bikarac Regional Waste Management Centre and that everything would be appropriate to the cameras and that Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic sees it beautifully all together representatively, and then it must all shine. And then our hardworking "Purity" workers here all day yesterday and today they're taking those bags off, the duffel bags in the area of Bikarca. And when we talk about Bikarco, I have no objection to the withdrawal of EU money, and moreover, I, I, I, I, I, I always like to stress that this is our money that we have paid in EU membership and I have nothing against the selection, the selection of waste and recycling of waste. But if someone spent hundreds and hundreds of millions of kunas, and now somewhere at a level of 7% recycled, reused waste, then I'm wondering something's wrong. Isn't that right? Two years ago we were at 0.8 to 0.9%, now we're on record almost 7% of recycled waste. I'm talking about Sibenik-Knin County. Well, that's not all. One part of the waste that is recycled is plastic, and then when ours, our valuable cleanliness, or Bikarac, selects that plastic, he gives it to an authorised buyer and pays that buyer nearly 1000 kuna with a VAT ton of that waste, and that buyer again sells that waste further, and not only that, he gets 50 drops from the state per bottle of return packaging. So, citizens pay the cost of something, public utility companies take that money from citizens, and then some private ones take money from these public utility companies, indirectly from citizens and get more money from the state. To me, I'll say, slightly speaking, it stinks. So it's something we should talk about here at HS. I used to say here that the absurd waste collection is bigger which is what doesn't end with Croatian means collector or waste-boughter, it ends up in Austria, and then Austrians end up with the same waste for which we pay them for what they took, produce electronic energy or heat their homes with the help of the heat. The question is simple, are we too rich to share money who knows which private buyers waste and whether we are too rich to give, give money, for example. specifically, Austrians? And finally, the most important question, how is it possible that after hundreds and hundreds of millions of kuna, after several decades of investment in the Bikarac Regional Waste Management Centre, the share of recycled separate selected waste is only 7%. I think there's something very fishy about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u43144	The third debate of the SDP advocates club respected counterpart Boska Ban Vlahek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u43145	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In the last few days, the media has been full of headlines around the Health Ministry's “Veri se” platform for which millions of kunas have been spent, which has been put into operation since February and over which tens of thousands of citizens have appeared for vaccination, and now, as far as we can see, it has been a complete failure. In most counties, no person was able to vaccinate after applying to that platform, and those counties that tried to use it gave up because the ordering system was vague and full of mistakes that caused them chaos and chaos on the ground. Thanks to the internet platform which is the Home of Health Čakovec under the directorship of Dr. Branka Vrčića made two months before it was made by the state, the vaccination plan goes like a log. A step in advance was considered, the Dom of Health Čakovec did not want to wait for the state to start, he formed his own vaccination application platform to make this whole vaccination process completely transparent, quality-organised and clear, and to facilitate communication with doctors and epidemiologists. All residents of the county who wish to vaccinate their data shall enter the application or may, instead, provide information to general practitioners. Afterwards, employees of the formed call centre shall contact citizens in accordance with the list of priorities to notify them of the time of vaccination. Up to now, 24,000 people have registered through the application, vaccinated over 18,000 people, more than a fifth of the population. They are all vaccinated by priority through the application except for those exceptional cases such as immobilised or severely ill persons. Last week we had a 10th more massive vaccination on three points and in these ten mass vaccinations, 22.610 doses were already divided, and over 17% of the population was vaccinated with at least one dose. If we look at the population over 16 years of age, then we get to 18.8%. All the doses we've got, they're all split in a few hours. In a priority group over 65 years old, only about 3,000 were left to split and then ended up with the priority group. There was also a break-up of educators, 65% reported, and 49% of the number had already been split. It is our priority to reach 50% of the divided population by June. According to publicly available data, the comparisons in order, if we look at the price of the state platform and the number of people split through it, and the same application data at Home of Health Čakovec we come up with data that the cost of costing vaccination per person of the state platform is about 400 kuna, while the price of the Home of Health platform Čakovec is around 2 kuna per split person. And most importantly, the state application doesn't work while this one works quickly and efficiently. Through its own platform, up to 3,000 people were given the opportunity to be vaccinated daily, which no one could have done in Croatia until recently. The platform also relieved us of our offices, family doctors we didn't want to vaccinate in, we've already focused on checkpoints. We have several, not one as in Zagreb. It all works quickly and efficiently. And most importantly, for that platform, it's not the millions that have been disembarked, it's about 40,000 kunas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u43237	Second debate, Club of HDZ Representatives, dear colleague Ljubomir Kolarek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u43238	Dear President, colleagues and fellow MPs. I would like to look back with a few words on the current provision of measures to support the preservation of jobs in activities affected by the Covid-19 coronary virus and the consequences of the earthquake in the area of Sisak-Moslavina, Zagreb and Karlovac County for April 2021 Behind the scenes of everyday political pamphlets that we hear here in the Parliament, which many known and unknown try, above all, to catch several political points, and these good things happen. We're all aware that the new, that we're being attacked by new strains of the virus, that we don't know whether or not we've passed the peak of the current wave. We don't know how many more waves are gonna hit us, and in all this, the economy has to live. Therefore, any aid is very welcome, by vaccination and other measures, primarily by healthcare on that side, in due course, we can overcome the pandemic, but if the economy is destroyed, the real end of the crisis is difficult to see. We therefore welcome the continuation of these measures, and the information from the ministries says this, the preservation of jobs and will continue to be a priority for economic development and recovery, and will actually be used to preserve jobs and in May and April of this year, and the measures will benefit 30,000 employers and about 120,000 workers. In April, a total of 2.2 billion kuna was secured. But let us not forget, by now over 680,000 workers and more than 110,000 employers have been included for the preservation of jobs. Since the launch of the special circumstances to today, HZZ has paid more than 9.4 billion kuna. It is important that measures continue to apply to the preservation of jobs in endangered areas, that employers do not have to fill a pile of paper in order to obtain and report these measures, but simply declare that under criminal and material responsibility, circumstances have arisen from the criteria for obtaining support. But I would also like to highlight a positive example, an example of our City of Prelog, Lower Međimurje and Međimurje, where there are companies that have at no time used these measures that increase the number of employees, wider production plants, adapt to the scope of jobs that can cover the emerging situation and actually record good business results. It's mostly about the meditative industry, I point out this example because it seems to me, of course, not only to me, that in recent years we've been overly dependent on tourism, tourism and hospitality right now among the economic branches most affected by the coronary crisis. But we must take advantage of this moment and put production in the focus of the Croatian economy. I mentioned vaccination, given that the nearest tourist season needs to put emphasis on the vaccination of tourist workers, employees in trade, media, but actually if we are thinking healthy we need to vaccinate first of all the working-age population, especially in production because they are our priority because they are actually holding us. We hope that we will all be able to see through vaccination the light at the end of the tunnel because, despite the success of these measures of support for the preservation of jobs in the long term, it is certainly not the right solution to rescue, but in these situations, the crown of the virus certainly does not have any other economies and it is the most developed in Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u43338	Good morning, honourable MPs. I thank the media representatives, and we will go as always at the beginning of the meeting with the presentation of the position. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Mosta, respected colleague Marija Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u43339	Did you know that the pandemic, which shifted life online, has contributed greatly to the increase in child exploitation for pornography, which is as much as 30% more than in 2019? Did you know that the increase in body injury to the harm of children and families increased 50% compared to 2019? Did you know that the system at the time of the pandemic has completely collapsed so that the non-implementation of the decision to protect the child's well-being has increased by an incredible 81%, and the violation of the child's rights by 33%, or did you know that in the pedestal 2020, children are dramatically more used for pornography and physical abuse, and the protection of their rights practically does not exist? What's this about? Encouraged by the tragic death of little Nicole and knowing that in the pandemic the crime of family violence has increased by as much as 40%, I have asked myself a question that I did not get an answer in public space, what happens to children at the time of the crown? It's not the numbers, it's the trend, because he's the only one who's warning us. How is 2020 compared to 2019? In 2020, the year of lockdown, people are nervous, people are unemployed, alcohol consumption has grown, many institutions have been transferred online and are working in a reduced range, even the Ombudsman for children online. The school is online, and the sport is practically gone. On whom do the accumulated frustrations manifest themselves? The figures inexorably warn that children are a large victim of the crowns at a higher level. They serve as a exhaust valve because of their parents' accumulated anger, the fact that most institutions have been relocated online because of the conduct of epidemiological measures, served as an excuse to circumvent judicial decisions concerning the protection of children's rights and virtualization of our reality, unfortunately proved to be fertile soil for child pornography. And what do the competent institutions say about all this? They say that, I quote, the results of the efforts made are found in an increased number of detected crimes of violence in families committed at the expense of children. To translate, when the numbers are bad, it means the system works well, and when they're dramatic, then I guess the system is brilliant. If it's true that the numbers are growing because the employees of the MUP started doing their job better, then what does that tell us about the numbers that are going down? For example, sexual abuse of a child under the age of 15 has fallen by 46%. The MUP logic would, therefore, mean that the system has completely failed, because we have a dramatic decline in the application of sexual exploitation of children. Of course, the above doesn't make any sense and the truth is simple. We have not perfected any system, especially at the time of the pandemic when it, like everything else, is on appliances, but the children as the most vulnerable and unprotected group remained at the mercy of their abusers. Time to face it and react urgently to stop this trend. And what does the lawyer do for children? She's sending recommendations. But it is not enough to guide and to calm your conscience. It should be persistent and repeatedly insisted on their implementation. Because, unfortunately, all we find in practice are only impervious reports and graphs, but also inexorable and falsely interpreted figures behind which the living faces of children who should not have become victims of violence, pornography, or any form of exploitation. Children who have their rights and deserve their protection. There are also amassed questions that remain unswerving. How many children in 2020 are separated from violent families based on this data? Why the decisions of the courts or the Department of Social Care when no one implements them and who is responsible for their non-implementation, or the question I ask with the greatest chill. If official numbers are like this, and schools, just like socializing, have not been available for most of the year, so children were not available to those who were able to recognize the signs of abuse and were imprisoned with their abusers, what is the real situation? So perhaps before again someone vulgarly curses social workers or starts pompous masterplans of unqualified ministers, that first, without twisting, without unsustainable self-indulgent explanations, we analyse the available statistics and let the public know what is happening at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u43434	4th debate Club of IDS Representatives and esteemed colleague Katarina Nemet, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u43435	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. I will look back on an ongoing initiative or national campaign, by which numerous animal protection associations, but also by the general public supporting them, are seeking an immediate amendment to the existing Animal Protection Act by introducing a complete ban on keeping dogs on the chain. It is a campaign titled "For Croatia without Dogs on the Chain" launched by several of the largest Croatian Animal Protection Associations, which was then supported by over 50,000 signatories through an online petition at the address ban.net. In various ways, support has been expressed by a large number of institutions, citizens and public life figures, and all with the goal of ending this completely inhumane practice once and for all. I believe that many will agree that in the 21st century it is absolutely unacceptable for helpless beings who we often call the best of man's friends to condemn this same man to life slavery, to life within a few metres, on conditions that no living creature deserves. All of us who have pets know how much they mean to us, we know that they are practically family members to us. I am aware that there are also those who will not understand it, they will think that we are exaggerating in our attention and love for animals. And I can understand that. Everyone has a natural right to their own opinion. But what I am deeply convinced of is that we do not have the right as a human species to threaten other beings to bring their entire life span down to slavery, to a chain, to an agony that has no end. In this direction is also an initiative to amend the Animal Protection Act which in Article. 51st speaks of how it is forbidden to keep dogs permanently tied up or keep them in separate holding rooms without allowing free movement outside that space. This unscheduled formulation is often a source of abuse because when it happens that competent institutions, veterinary inspections or communal redistribution and respond to dog holding on a chain cannot prove that it is permanently tied. The initiative, which I repeat, has been signed and supported by more than 50,000 citizens and Croatian citizens, however, requires that this gray zone of manipulation be resolved simply by keeping dogs on the chain completely banned. Speaking of the Animal Protection Act, it should also be said that it has a number of good sides, of course, there are other provisions that would be good to review and in dialogue with animal protection associations sometimes and modify. But what is in this context is, in fact, an inadequate implementation of the provisions of that law. Often legal provisions remain only a dead letter on paper. Institutions responsible for their implementation, from veterinary inspections to local self-government, rarely avoid the obligations arising from this law, and all unfortunately to the damage of animals, primarily dogs and cats. We are talking about the problem of taking care of abandoned animals, conducting sterilisation and castration, establishing city and municipal or county dog asylums, etc., etc. It is therefore inevitable to include both more concrete and stricter infringement provisions to ensure their implementation, but then necessary and to ensure that all the relevant provisions are implemented and implemented. This is why the Ministry of Agriculture and the Croatian Government is calling for a positive response to the "For Croatia without Dogs on the Chain" initiative, to guide the proposed amendment of the law in the procedure, but also to establish, through dialogue with Animal Protection Associations and other potentially interested partners, other needs for possible changes in order to get a better quality, and above all more effective law, a law that will guarantee a more humane and appropriate attitude towards animals, which will then bring us closer to many developed countries that have a far more appropriate time in which we live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u43455	6th debate, independent representative respected Karolina Vidovic Kristo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u43456	Ladies and gentlemen, the speed of decision-making in today's digital time is the obligation of those who make decisions. To the extent that governments make decisions successfully, it is very transparently seen on the pages of the statistical office of the Union, Eurostat, looking at economic growth or the fall of certain countries and which is extremely important, growth or decline of the population. According to these statistical parameters, there is a drastic decline in the Croatian population in Croatia, and by purchasing power, as we know, only Bulgaria is behind us. Following these scientifically based data, the Croatian government has proven to be incompetent and unsuccessful. However, there are other indicators, those that have no scientific background, which is also the time for Croatian mainstream media, and according to them, Plenkovic's Government is the most successful in Europe, in the world, and perhaps wider. This manipulation is being paid by the government to the media by Croatian citizens' money. These Croatian media are effective in performing services to Croatian powerful people, it is evident, and their democratic social role is not being executed at all. He'll be ashamed of what he's done today. Since this public control is not working at all, the decision of the Croatian government is becoming increasingly absurd and increasingly grotesque. Thus, at last week's session, the government appointed Yugoslavia's Bagatin, a 72-year-old man as president of the Clinical Hospital Management Council in Split. The government does not specify the criteria on which Yugoslavia took Bagatina out of retirement and placed such an important function in Croatian health. Also, several months ago, a certain Jure Zulj was returned to the Ministry of Justice system from retirement. Otherwise, Mr Jure Žulj was retired after the 2014 affair. In this case, no one has explained to us what the criteria and special skills of the pension are to reactivate it in the ministry. On the other hand, the head of human resources in a foreign company in Croatia tells me that when talking to a job, the heart is broken when so many quality people have to give rejections because simply, the Croatian labour market does not work and people have no job and it is quality and educated people. One part of the problem is that we have a low level of economic activity, and the key cause of this situation is corruption and incompetence of ruling structures because, as we know, Croatian children are ruled by the powers of the communist South regime, and their ability to see, for example, Plenkovic is getting planes. So you've had money on your account for five years, and you can't buy planes for five years. It is this destructive reverse anti-development spirit that ruled Croatia. Of course, there are thousands of people in Croatia who are in full strength and highly educated with international experience who could act as the Administrative Council of the Hospital in Split. But today's government doesn't need those kind of things. They need retired Yugoslavs Bagatini and Jure Zulj. I have a case of a person with a finished study at a famous American university. He wanted to work in and for Croatia and offered himself to the public ministry. After months of delay by the minister, man became a résumé of one of the world's largest companies and within 2 weeks. He's got a managerial position in that company, and it's on the roof, for all of Europe. Transparency, ability, honesty and patriotism are the criteria this Croatian government is afraid of. Plenkovic's government needs Yugoslavia's Bagatin and Jure Zulj, people of communist manners who guarantee that nothing in Croatia will change, that the rich become richer and poorer. And of course, the Croats are still moving out. That is why we are fighting for a society of knowledge, work and results, against a friendly-non-potistic consciousness whose results we feel daily on our skin. We Croats are part of a Central European value system and are doomed to success with little perseverance. And we will achieve it through the rule of law because the rule of law has no alternative. In this rule, the rights of those who have proven to be incompetent and who have achieved everything they have gained through privilege and not knowledge will finally be removed from the steering positions and the opportunity will be given valuable and capable. Therefore, we are fighting for a fair Croatia, an equal country where work and results are valued, I repeat, we are Croats of a Central European value system and we are, with little perseverance, doomed to success.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46764	We are now going to debate according to the announced agenda. The first is: - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law prohibiting unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 96. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia in relation to Art. 172. 190. The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture, and the amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law. I would ask the motionary's representative to give an additional explanation of the final bill. With us is the Honorable State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture Tugomir Majdak. Then wait for the secretary of state, reporting for a break from colleague Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46765	I am looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club to ask the promoter to reconsider the intensities of this law and whether this legislative proposal will indeed abolish unfair commercial practices accordingly. What's the problem? We all agree that unfair commercial practices should be abolished. What are unfair commercial practices? Unfair trading practices are, for example, when a small supplier of fresh milk sells his product to “Vindi” and this “Vindia” does not pay him within a 30-day contract but abuses his stronger position on the market and pays him much later than it should. And of course we are in that situation all of us are on the side of a small supplier of milk or our farmer who is trying to break into a large trade chain because unfair commercial practices and it is important to highlight it is really a lot. When you read the Agency's reports, there's almost no big trade chain that's not being punished for unfair commercial practice. However, where does the problem arise? The problem is that this law that tries to do so is that it has lowered the threshold of those that it will cover from 50 to 15 million, so that it is even fairer is one-sided. He's just talking about the bargaining force of the buyer, and we understand that when we have Lidl compared to our farmer. But what if we have a large fruit producer and a much smaller buyer than that fruit producer? Or what about when we have someone in Croatia who is a customer compared to a much larger supplier within the EU? Therefore, this law should be regulated bilaterally by respecting both the strength of both the buyer and the supplier, so I call once again on the legislator to consider whether it will achieve its intensity.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46766	Thank you very much. Stanka's approved. Anyone else picking up for a break? If not, we'll continue at 10 o'clock and 40 minutes. It's 10.28 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46767	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.42 HOURS]] What? ... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] And the minister is here, I'm sorry. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Minister Marija Vukkovic, will she take the floor? I'm sorry, I didn't see you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46768	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs, gentlemen of the Parliament. At European level, the need for a systematic way of preventing unfair commercial practices is indicated for a number of years. For a number of years, through voluntary national frameworks, the system has been governed by the code, or by addressing the problem of unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain, in a different way from country to country. In its resolution of 7 June 2016 on unfair trade practices in the food supply chain, the European Parliament called on the Commission to submit a proposal for a legal framework of the Union concerning unfair trade practices and on the basis of which the Directive was adopted on 17 April 2019. 633 on unfair commercial practices in relations between enterprises in the supply chain of agricultural and food products. The obligation is to amend the European Directive by 1 May 2021 in the legal framework of the country and from 1 November 2021. In 2017, the Republic of Croatia regulated the national legal framework by adopting the Law prohibiting unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain published in the National Journal of the European Union. 117 of 2017. The law lays down a number of unfair commercial practices, in particular a total of 33 basic and additional, which arise as a consequence of the unequal economic power of stakeholders in the food supply chain. Almost every time a significant bargaining force of a trader is exploited in relation to its suppliers, when conditions arise for them which are not the result of partner-equal strong negotiations but are unilaterally influenced, we are talking about unfair commercial practice. Such unfair trade practices across the EU and Croatia have been the most affected and affected by farmers, small and medium-sized enterprises, or those who are the weakest link in the food supply chain in the same way as small and medium-sized enterprises dealing with processing. The aim is to protect them by this law because their survival ensures the survival of production, the survival of processing, the survival of the regional economy as well as vital rural communities and the production of domestic traditional food as a whole. These amendments to the applicable law propose amendments and additions to certain provisions in order to comply with the provisions of the EU Directive, in addition, to regulate the rules and system of measures to prevent the imposition of unfair commercial practices and to lay down in more detail the powers and practices of the law enforcement authority. The final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law prohibiting unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain, the final proposal shall ensure consistent fulfilment of the task of compliance with the European legal framework and further regulation of business behaviour and trade practices, and shall significantly extend the scope of the product. For example, the terms ‘purchaser’, ‘processor’, ‘trader’ include the concept of ‘purchaser’. By changing the threshold of the total annual income, the scope of the customer address of the law is extended, all purchasers and associated companies with total annual income above 15 million kuna, enter into the scope of the law as opposed to the former threshold that was higher and includes purchasers, processors with income of more than 50 million kuna or traders with income of more than 100 million kuna. More precisely, the obligation to have a written contract between the buyer and the supplier, the rules and responsibilities relating to the issue of invoices and the buy-in bloc and to include in the list of unfair commercial practices that have so far been within our national law, which are part of the EU Directive, covering the total of 33 basic and additional unfair commercial practices, is extended to 43. In order to protect the manufacturer, the final proposal defines production and market-sensitive agricultural and food products which are vital to the sustainability of agriculture, namely milk and dairy products, fresh beef, veal, pork and meat, eggs, fresh fruit and vegetables, flour and bread, sugar, vegetable oils in food. Furthermore, two trading practices, the sale of so defined sensitive products below the final selling price, which must include sales costs of a minimum of 10% compared to the purchase price as well as sales at a price lower than 34% of the final selling price, limiting the action threshold to the stock model to be bought two, one gets gratis. These two provisions will be observed during a limited period of application of 30 months. as from the date of entry into force of the law, in order to prevent certain unfair practices. The final proposal for a law prohibits unfair commercial practice requiring the supplier, in the framework of the promotion, to bear in full or in part the cost of discount on agricultural and food products sold by the customer in the context of the actions in order to be involved in the action sale of the supplier, only for quantities sold through the register and for the unsolded quantity of products purchased at the action price, the buyer should be paid to the supplier at a regular price. Since the implementation of the amendments, procedures related to unannounced AZTN controls have been decommissioned as more effective mechanisms and mechanisms have been introduced to protect the identity of applicants of unfair practices against commercial retribution, but also any other form of retribution. With the systematic application of control and fines, AZTN will punish the perpetrator of violations of the provisions of this Act, but I point out in the end, that the main objective of the established and established penalties is the provision of a dissuasive character rather than of someone else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46769	Thank you, too. You have several replicas. The first replica was asked for by Mrs. Devereaux. Selak Rasudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46770	Dear Minister, I'm glad to finally see you in the House because we have so many bill proposals regarding your resources spoken to you lately, and only now have you shown yourself. I remind you that I hope that you will do the same tomorrow when we can talk to you about the fraud of the subsidized Croatian beekeeping alliance, and then the powers that they receive as a reward, the Agriculture Act without a farming strategy and all other accumulated problems. By listening to your opening speech, by your intonation, one would somehow conclude that you are a little bored. I hope I'm wrong, that it's only a long red tape that comes from the ministry's work, but I will certainly warn you that this debate in the Parliament is going to wake you up very much. Therefore, my first question on this trail is why this law.../incomprehensible/... regulates relationships so that only the buyer is stronger negotiating force when we know, especially with regard to our businesses in relation to the EU, that this does not have to be the case, that the supplier can be stronger than the buyer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46771	Thank you very much. Ma'am. Minister, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46772	I'd like to thank the honourable MPs for asking. I'll briefly say that she obviously missed many of the debates I've been involved in. If it wasn't very scientific to comment on someone's drowsiness without evidence, and the last time she looked back on a rather unrecognizable dictionary of this, to my non-inhabitation in the parliamentary debate, I was in Brussels looking for additional support for Croatian winemakers who are facing a major disturbance. As far as the specific question is concerned, we, the law, are in line with the EU directive, and we are dealing with what has proved to be a problem in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46773	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Credentials. Selak Rasudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46774	Art. 238, demeaning parliamentary deputies. I haven't missed the debate, if you've followed them, and you could have looked at them afterwards, I've been present at all the debates concerning your portfolio, and as far as I'm concerned about this presentation of yours, I've pointed out that I'm talking about the impression, which is also part of the usual parliamentary discourse, not the scientific proof of your condition. And I mentioned, I hope I'm wrong, but I'm not sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46775	I don't know if you're wrong, but you have a warning. Second breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46776	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I think he's hurt. 238 Rules of Procedure, due to the fact that a respected colleague at the same time declares that it is a demeaning of the MPs, and earlier on, in a rough and ugly way, she has diminished not only Minister Vukkovic but also her entire work so far and the work of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46777	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure too. - Mrs. Crescent. Martina Grman... Who? Ma'am. Selak Rasdic, do you have a breach of the Rules of Procedure again? Yeah? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46778	Art. 238, demeaning parliamentary deputies. I beg you to concentrate on not being false, nor was I speaking rudely, nor was I speaking ugly. I said that I was glad that the minister was finally in the Parliament, that I hope that she would be in Parliament all week long because the important laws were on the agenda, she found again that there was no earlier on these proposals, and the Parliament was coming ahead of Brussels and also said something about its impression, indicating that I might be wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46779	Thank you very much. The second violation of the Rules of Procedure, you know that after the third paragraph, the word is taken away. You know that? - Mrs. Crescent. Grman Kizzwat. Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46780	I thank the vice president of HS. Your Honor, Minister. In his first reading of this law, the SDP proposed that the law be withdrawn from the procedure and that a new quality law be made that would benefit all. Today, in the final draft of the law, explain that all are covered by these amendments and additions and that it is the deadline of 1.5 to comply with the EU Directive. My question, Minister, is, if the deadline of 1.5 is to comply with the EU Directive, today is the 28.4. Today we are discussing, on Friday there is no vote, are we going to break the deadline of the Directive again? How long will Croatia pass laws beyond the deadlines of the EU Directive? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46781	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46782	Thank you very much. The deadline for the application of the EU Directive is November 2021 for full application, we will be on time and once again, as well as when we have passed the law, we will have such dialogue and publication on all issues, and there were, let's say, in the first adoption of 150, and we expect the same answer from the community, although it is a very, very demanding law, I expect that it will be during time and that the community will again say economically and those to whom even the regulation does not correspond, that I will repeat, quote, a school example of good, detailed dialogue and regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46783	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Nadj. Excuse me. What's the matter? Who? Yeah, uh... I didn't see you have any injuries to your Rules of Procedure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46784	Thank you, Vice President. Art. 238, Your Honor, I have not asked you to apply, I have asked you to comply with EU directives. This isn't the first law where we're late, so we have the State Inspectorate Act where the Food Act isn't in line yet, it's not even in the process. You have a strategy of agriculture called '20-30. And we're bringing it to '22, then call it the farm strategy 2022-2030. And as for this, of course we're late again, and that's obviously very hard to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46785	Thank you very much. Let's play along, it's a game that's become a yes. It's a warning. Let's move on, Mrs. Nadj replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46786	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honors Minister. The law prohibiting unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain, which is in force, has 35 members, and this final proposal to amend and supplement 26 articles. According to Art. The 48th century 3rd single methodological nomotechnical rules for the production of acts adopted by HS, National Journal 74/2015, are prescribed ‘if more than half of the articles of the basic regulation are amended or complemented, it is necessary to access the adoption of a new regulation’. Why didn't you approach the adoption of a new single regulation, no amendments and additions to the law, is this how you actually degrade the unique nomotechnical rules that this HS has just adopted? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46787	Thank you, too. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46788	And I think that the assessment of the demeaning of the Parliament and the unique nomotechnical rules is certainly too harsh, we never do that, and as much as I remember we respect all the remarks relating to nomotechnical harmonisation, which are also in charge of the Office for the Law of the Republic of Croatia and the Committee on the Law of the HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46789	Mrs. Nadj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46790	You've just disrespected the unique nomotechnical rules, and I'm surprised the Legislative Committee didn't pay you back.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46791	And you just didn't say what article it was, so you have a warning. No, no, please sit down. [[Intruder Nadj: 230.]] Mrs. Ban Vlahek, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46792	Your Honor, Minister. In the transitional and final provisions of the applicable law of 2017, The Ministry of Agriculture says that within two years of the date of entry into force of this law, the Ministry of Agriculture will carry out an impact assessment of this law. Yesterday, a question was asked to your secretary of state who said the assessment was not published, while the final draft of the law on page 32 states that the information on the assessment was published on the Ministry of Agriculture's website. So I ask you, have you been able to agree whether the assessment has been published or not, or whether the assessment has been made at all?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46793	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46794	The assessment was made and it is publicly available. It was made within the legal time limit.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46795	Here you go, Mrs. Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46796	Your Honor, Minister. Art. In 238, your secretary of state said the assessment was published on the ministry's pages, but since yesterday the assessment has not been published. So I repeat the question again, is the assessment made and is it published on the Ministry's website?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46797	Don't answer it, Madam Minister, it was a violation of the Rules of Procedure and, of course, a warning. Here you go, Mrs. Romana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46798	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honors Minister. The final draft of the law lays down provisions relating to the rules on the issue of invoices and the ransom block. However, what is not defined is the deadline for the release of the ransom block, I assume that the buyer must fill in the storage loop and record the entry of the product into the accounts for further accounting. In the real world of producers, it is not exactly because sometimes ransom blocks are not issued, so we insist that the deadline for issuing the ransom block be defined. It is another item that is unclear in law, yet logically necessary. You did enter section 3 of the 5th century on our proposal, but you did not define the deadline on which we insist.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46799	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46800	It's being noted, we've specified provisions relating to the issue of an account and a ransom block.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46801	Mrs. Mariana Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46802	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister. We all agree that unfair commercial practices are a major problem to catch up with, and this law extends the scope to as much as 43 unfair commercial practices, in particular by law sensitive products, and there is a proposal for a limited period of time to prevent unfair commercial practices in this segment. I am interested in what your expectations are of applying this model to sensitive products because we know that they are actually the most hit and will the model proposed by law reduce imports of milk, meat, fruit, vegetables at dumped and predatory prices in Croatia? We have seen that the Law on Trade and the Law on Competition that should be dealt with in this area does not really give the right answer so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46803	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46804	I appreciate the question. These two provisions were created as an attempt to react to the possible existence of predatory prices in the Republic of Croatia or, of course, we are trying to check with another competent authority. The provisions are brand-new, they're sensitive, they need to be followed closely. It's early to say, it seems to me that it's early to expect, early to talk about concrete expectations, and generally here we are trying to prevent the practical sale without accounting for transport costs, logistics costs, without any margin on those most sensitive primary products.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46805	Thank you very much. Mrs. Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46806	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Your Honors Minister. Therefore, one who will implement this law and who will be responsible is the Competition Protection Agency. This law stipulates, among other things, that the agency will employ six additional employees to do the job and provides for a million-and-a-half thousand kuna in an item special to their work, to equip jobs and others. I'm interested in how much of this agency now because we have employees working under the applicable law, and they're the applicable law that you're changing and supplementing, and about what kind of expert you're going to be looking for, are you at all able to find those 6 employees on the market, given the specific knowledge that they must have, so how many of them are there today, which are special knowledge, and what experience do you have, will you succeed in hiring these new 6 employees? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46807	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46808	I appreciate the question. So the employees will try to hire the Competition Protection Agency, and the Ministry of Agriculture is committed to providing funds. Mostly in this context, here is the context of otherwise hiring at the Competition Protection Agency, as far as I know, looking for lawyers, but I would still like to answer you in writing, writing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46809	Mrs. Devereaux. Rose of the Wolf.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46810	Thank you. Ministers, therefore, in the introductory part of Regulation No. 2019/633 clearly states that this law, or regulation, should also protect the manufacturer from public authorities. My question is how will it be handled in frequent and present situations where, for example, schools get directly from the manufacturer of products, and then it is actually late with the payment to be provided only by the Ministry of Agriculture, I wonder if then the agency in those cases, so the Competition Protection Agency will launch proceedings and punish the ministry or maybe punish the school? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46811	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46812	So, if you're talking about implementing the school scheme in Croatia then here I can tell you that we are trying to make amended regulations this year that should reduce administrative procedures or at least not increase them, and to improve the possibility, the possibility of using short supply chains, the Competition Protection Agency makes decisions in accordance with the accredited deadlines of, which are somewhat different from those laid down for payments, but these are not accounts. This isn't about bills.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46813	Mr. Domagoj Price.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46814	Dear Minister, I agree with you that we need to protect the competition and that is why it is important that this law has a dissuasive character. So now I'm curious, of those entities that have been punished so far for unfair commercial practices, have there been cases that the same entities are business entities, have they been re-involved in unfair commercial practices?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46815	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46816	All information on the administrative procedures launched, the decisions of law enforcement and the penalties charged can be found in detail on the website of the Competition Protection Agency.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46817	Thank you. Mr. Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46818	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here is the law on the prohibition of unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain: 10 new phenomena will be followed and sanctioned if they are found to be unfair commercial practices. We are witnessing that in the past, many of our large trade chains with our subcontractors or cooperatives have used exactly what was in the law, but the agency probably has not been able to control it all and have used their negotiating rights and opportunities to force large numbers and this is also specified in this law today and has increased the relationship to 15 million kunas for those who have to comply with these legal provisions. I believe that this will best help those who produce and who do large chains and do business and trade.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46819	Thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, time. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46820	Thank you for your comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46821	Thank you, pretty lady. Minister, you don't have any more replicas for now. Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? Yeah. Here you go, Mrs. President. Mariana Petir, Committee on Agriculture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46822	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ma'am. Ministers, MPs and MPs. At its 23rd session, held on 27 April, the HS Committee discussed the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law prohibiting unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain sent to the President of the HS by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We discussed this law as a parent body. The debate was attended by representatives and representatives of the agricultural associations, chambers and purchasers sector. Suggestions have been made on how to improve certain, certain solutions proposed by law, and a detailed report can be found on HS pages. The Ministry accepted certain proposals made by the Committee in its first reading, but it was also evident that it could not accept the proposal made by the Committee, which concerns the fact that we wanted to define as an unfair commercial practice the sale of products below their producer price by interpreting it as a breach of the rules of the internal market of the Union. As a new proposal was tabled yesterday, the applicant said he was willing to consider this new proposal, which would establish unfair commercial practice, as an unfair commercial practice, to establish the purchase of agricultural and food products below the market price in the countries from which the products came, and then I will ask the minister during the debate to show about this proposal which the applicant said he was willing to consider. Following the discussion, the Committee decided to propose to the majority the HS the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the prohibition of unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46823	Thank you, too. I'm opening a debate. The clubs are up first. Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic, Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns. He's gone. He's losing his right. - Mrs. Crescent. Marija Selak Rasludić, Club of Representatives of the Mosta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46824	This is an important law, so I really hope for a fruitful and engaged debate because despite the final proposal, I am afraid that we have some substantial changes to make in order for this law to be what it says it is and that is what has been done by unfair commercial practices. In that sense, my earlier comment had no intensities to offend the minister, although I must say that I am confused by her rhetoric, answers like "received knowledge" that remind me more of talking to a machine than with a living human being, especially one minister who is in a vivid debate with the Parliament. Croatia's agriculture is in big trouble, it's familiar to all of us, so it sounds a little cynical to find out that we're protecting farmers in a situation where during this whole crisis we have OPGs that can't sell or couldn't during the lockdown of their manufacturing markets whose work was limited while shopping centres work all the time. And that's one job of the minister and the moment she was supposed to react. To talk about unfair trade practices and I will repeat, protecting the rights of our farmers is particularly cynical in the situation, I'm talking about statistics from a few years ago but the trend is still that the number of poultry decreases by 23%, the number of pig farming by 20%, cattle by 7.5%, etc., and even we're counting on the production of eggs where we were recently self-sufficient, we have a problem with renting land and we keep forgetting what one wise professor pointed out and that is that water, air and agricultural land are our basic resources. When we talk about unfair commercial practices, it would also be important at the principle level to make a distinction between fraud followed by an appropriate fine in this legislative proposal, it is questionable how it is determined because it is extremely high penalties and we need a concrete argument to choose such financial amounts and, on the other hand, the threat of health for which there is insufficient financial penalty if unfair commercial practice arises which, as a consequence, could pose a health and end-user threat, there is a need to close traffic, therefore, to prohibit traffic. So we find ourselves in a situation of serious not to say, a dramatic lack of domestic production. Unfair commercial practices are certainly one of those that contributes to this because SMEs fail to manage the market. In order to explain what is problematic in this legislative proposal, I will return to what is fundamental and that is that the unfair commercial practices to which this law applies are at all unfair. It's a general principle name that doesn't say much about those who didn't go through these laws and should tell them something. Therefore, unfair commercial practices are, for example, a situation in which Vindia pays its suppliers fresh milk within 90 days, which is significantly longer than the legal deadline for fresh products than 30 days. The Competition Protection Agency has punished Vindi with an administrative penalty of 284,000 kuna. Unfair commercial practices are also when Lidl seeks additional quality assurance measures carried out on the initiative or the request of Lidl at the authorised laboratory chosen by Lidl. So, what's going on? It happens that whoever is stronger, he and the snake, or large in this case, I have listed some who are known to us all, exploit their negotiating power against small suppliers and then conduct rules beyond legal provisions. In that sense, the intensity of this law is good. It is good to bring down a threshold that will cover more people who carry out unfair commercial practices from 50 billion to 15 billion. But we have a serious and multi-layered problem with this legislative proposal and it is up to us to find a fair and compromise solution in order to overcome unfair commercial practices. How? Protecting the weaker side of the market. And what is the basic problem of this law? The intensity is positive, we need to lower the threshold of a significant negotiating force in order to expose more abuses, threaten unannounced controls, and support the extension of the Agency for the Protection of Competition because where corruption is really seen in practice today, that is, directly affecting the lives of all our citizens is right on the shelves of the store. As we talked about the new Consumer Rights Strategy, as I pointed out, as regards consumer rights, Croatians are not bad. They are the worst in the entire EU. So protection is nothing. To make things worse, so is our purchasing power, because unlike countries with a good standard of living, research in Croatia shows that in selecting a food product, we play a crucial role not in quality, safety or origin of products but in its price. Yes, the average Croatian buys on action and are precisely big if not the biggest malversions possible because it is about products that are often quickly to be solved, just like their attractiveness and visibility, it greatly affects the place where they ended up in the trade chain, the top shelf, its bottom, closer to the register, away from the refrigerators are all things in which exactly the unfair commercial practices regulated by this law happen. Since EU statistics show us that once the goods to the consumer, if they are bad, there is no protection for us, then we can only see how important it is to fix the system before the goods come to the shelves so that we are at least as sure as we are that we are not eating something that I am not going to say healthy, but at least acceptable. And now what's the problem? So we understand the situation that this legislative proposal well solves when small suppliers of fresh milk are fighting against the great Vindia, but what about when the situation is reversed. When we put, for example. More visible in the context of the EU and when it buys from a significantly stronger supplier or when the buyer of fruits and vegetables is weaker than the large producer of fruits and vegetables. So the basic problem of this legislative framework is principled. He regulates unfair trade practices, but he edits them unilaterally. Assuming, which is only an assumption may be more common, but it is not necessary so that in practice the customer is always stronger than the supplier and therefore the one to be controlled and restricted because the supplier cannot impose unfair commercial practices. But, of course, that doesn't have to be the case, so I set this visual example that the manufacturer, a small OPG who produces milk compared to Vindi, but Vindi compared to some large European company that provides some of what is needed for the production of milk and dairy products is a completely different story. Therefore, care should be taken to protect the rights of all those on the market, so that none of them can participate in unfair commercial practices. Also, the issue of unannounced controls regulated by this law needs to be further explained because some of the things that allow these controls, such as fishing rooms, do not protect Croatian production but reduce the ability of agricultural product placements that have a very short life span. Therefore, what needs to be amended is primarily Article 4 relating to Article 3 and which regulates the one having significant negotiating power and which is not only a customer. Furthermore, since this is not in line with EU Directive 633/2019. Furthermore, it should be noted again that the Croatian market is relatively negligible in relation to the EU market and the rest of the world. It is therefore unacceptable that the threshold for a significant negotiating force is much lower in Croatian legislation than in the EU directive. And what needs to be considered once again, and we will do all of this with our proposals through amendments, how to regulate these unannounced controls to prevent unfair commercial practices, but at the same time do not violate the rights of those whose premises they enter. Croatian agriculture is in serious trouble. The production's going down pretty well. And that's the basic problem that makes us have so much imports. We're not self-sufficient, and we haven't learned in this crisis that this should be our priority. Indeed, we must prevent and legally prevent unfair commercial practices. But not unilaterally but comprehensively.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46825	Thank you, thank you very much. It is now up to the SDP advocates' club, to be represented by Ms. Martina Grman Kizivat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46826	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, today we have the Final Proposal for the Law on Unfair Trade Practice in the Food Supply Chain. For starters, I'll read you a piece of the text from the final bill. Unfair commercial practices arise as one of the consequences of the unequal economic power of stakeholders in the food supply chain. They hit farmers, small and medium-sized enterprises as the weakest link in the chain, but also small and medium-sized enterprises in the process. And that's all small and medium-sized farmers and small and medium-sized enterprises are mentioned. I get the feeling that that way he's trying to get the weakest in the food supply chain to touch, but that's all they're concerned with. In the spirit of the Green European plan, gentlemen should be a priority. In this way, the agony of Croatian agriculture continues. The applicable law on unfair commercial practice has 35 articles, 25 of which is amended as far as the non-quality and enforcement of the law itself is concerned. You did not accept our constructive proposal to get the law out of the process and to make once a real, fair law that would cover everything, but you had an excuse that all these changes were covered. But that's not true, though. The real truth lies in the fact that the deadlines of the EU directive oblige us to make harmony. So, deadlines press us, but we are still out of deadlines because I will repeat, today the 28th law will not be voted on Friday because there is no vote and we are breaking deadlines again. I would like to know how long you will be embarrassed and late with all the harmonisations of the European Directive. It is an obligation for all EU members, but Croatia is breaking deadlines again. We here in the Croatian home get a set where you are unable to comply even with your own laws. Here I'm talking about the State Inspectorate Act, your food law is still not in the parliamentary procedure. How long are you going to run a farm policy like that? And I want to know why we're just coordinating now. So what have you been doing for two years? We continue to believe that this law will further encourage imports to the detriment of domestic producers and introduce complex procedures that could result in an increase in costs throughout the food supply chain. We insisted that a clearer definition be made of the ultimate selling price. The final selling price is the price at which the retailer sells the product and the final consumer, and is formed in a way that the purchase prices of the agricultural and food products are multiplied by a coefficient of at least 1,10. I asked you specifically yesterday, what does 0.00 mean? What kind of compensation is that? Is that a margin? I didn't get the answer on the board again. We believe that customers should know what they pay through clearer provisions in the law. We insist that the definition of the final selling price as well as the other provisions relating to it be complemented. In order to define the deadline for issuing the ransom bloc, which means that it is clear which amount and quality is committed to the site, the SDP Club will submit an amendment. This is extremely important for small and medium-sized farmers who are mostly not in the VAT system. Provisions related to the rules on the issue of invoices and the ransom block are prescribed. The elements of the buy-in block are the quantity of goods, quality and price determined and clearly stated amounts of the contracted discounts or rebates and the exact specification to which they relate in accordance with publicly published binding customer conditions to the supplier. However, what is not defined is the deadline for the ransom bloc to be issued. Let us assume that the customer must fill in the storage loop and record the entry of the product into the accounts for further account. According to information from farmers and agricultural producers, this is not always the case. Sometimes ransom blocks don't come out when they take over goods, and they don't even know the price. The law adds that the supplier is responsible for the content, and the buyer is responsible for the contents of the ransom block, but still is not defined, that is what we will insist on. In order to clearly define and deal with sensitive food and processing products, we propose that an article be introduced into the law on the fee for sensitive agricultural and food products with clear definitions and provisions. We want to avoid the situation that our suppliers have additional costs affecting their competitiveness and that sensitive agricultural and food products are eventually destroyed or become waste after the written-off deadline. We also witness that domestic agriculture, the food industry is very often required to sell products at action prices due to the extremely low price of import products. In order to protect domestic agriculture and the food industry and avoid false interpretations and concerns, we require that the payment of goods to suppliers at action prices be defined in one article. That's for example. prescribed in the Slovenian law in ours is not, the SDP club will also submit its amendment to that part. It is unfortunate that the Ministry of Agriculture did not accept the proposals of the agricultural sector and the food industry in order to protect them from unfair commercial practices. In fact, we have witnessed recent events with the price of sugar in trade chains that have led to the closure of even two sugar bars along with other elements. We demand that the Ministry of Agriculture accept proposals from the food industry in order to avoid a potential situation of closure of the plant and layoff of workers due to the costs incurred by unfair commercial practices. All industry and food needs maximum protection and maximum support. On my question and in my first reading, I mentioned the impact assessment already mentioned, you are now explaining that the impact assessment was made, but in the final draft of the law it stands and that it was published on the web pages. Yesterday we heard from the secretary of state that it wasn't published, and that's where it says it was published. You may have agreed on whether it would be published and whether this impact assessment was actually made? If it's made, and you claim that it's made, so I would ask you to finally give it to the public to see that impact assessment, too. I repeat, you have committed yourself. Thirty-fourth law says you're gonna do it, but it's not just that, Art. HS Rules of Procedure, Art. 174 obliges you to provide us with an impact assessment, even the Rules of Procedure of HS obliges you. Get us an impact assessment. And to conclude, in all EU countries, the farmer is important, the European Green Plan is to protect domestically, protect indigenously small and medium-sized farmers, and we have not even protected them by the law on unfair commercial practice and they remain the most sensitive and weakest link and there is no protection for them again. This situation is not good, the law is not good, and agriculture is still a secondary thing in Croatia. I will repeat that all those who once fed us are forced to think that they will feed themselves and their family, these are no less than the consequences of poor agricultural policy. Gentlemen of the Ministry, please wake up because without your work, it won't help our agriculture either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46827	Thank you, too. Mrs. Anka Mrak Taritash will speak in front of the Center and GLAS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46828	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. In the second reading of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the prohibition of unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain, it is before us. What is important to say is a few frameworks in which all of this is to be seen, thought, thought, and debated together. First, we have a basic law from 2017. which entered into force on 7 December 2017 and with a delay in the period of time for the adjustment of all the bonds of the laws pending until 31 March 2018. And here it is about the law that is in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture, but for the very implementation of the law is the competent Agency for the Protection of Competition. And this amendment and the addition of the law should be viewed with two aspects, one aspect is to align with European directives, and the other aspect is with the experiences we have. So now we're in April 2021. and we have certain experiences, certain knowledge we have, and that context should be observed and watched by this amendment and the addition of the law. I am indeed one of those parliamentary advocates and our whole party GLAS is someone who believes and thinks that Croatia really is in society, that it is better to be in society of good, that it is better in society of successful, that it is good that we are a member of the EU, regardless of what we are here at the bottom of all indicators, but I think it is better when you are in society of good and successful, but not beyond that, regardless of the EU, it is not a perfect or complete model, but there is some experience to see and what has been seen at European level in recent times, it has been seen absolutely necessary to systematically disable unfair trading practices in the food supply chain, because who in the end actually gets hurt? Those who are at the beginning and those who are in the end suffer. At first, those who are producers and finally, we who are customers, who are actually useful or the subject is to try to feed quality, to try to buy, to have the ability to buy better quality products and to have certain safety. We really live in climate change times. These climate change can be, for someone it is only in political speech, but it is a fact, regardless of everyone who tries to find a reason why it is not, but look around you and you can see daily that it is a fact and these changes in this world will be adapted sooner or the plant and animal world will adapt. In doing so, I primarily think of producers, farmers and when you look at the Green European Plan, it says in the context of climate change that you must, indeed, that countries must adapt to some other conditions. We have a specific sensitive area of the Neretva valley, which is expected to increase the level of water, sea level, that there will be a change, and you need to look at it in the context of some, context and production and food production and other processes that are important and important. And there is the role of the Ministry of Agriculture to observe and see through its and its strategies, and through action plans, the changes that are happening and that are going to happen. I was in a lecture about human immigration once about 10 years ago and said that due to climate change, there would be, among other things, the greatest migration of people who would leave an area where they could not live. But that's what I'm saying in the context of production. So, at the beginning of that, in the food supply chain, that consumer is at the end of the chain, but in terms of those defined at the beginning, these are the primary producers, these are the processors, they are the buyers who sell the product to customers and them, on the one hand the chain, we call suppliers, and the processors, at the moment of the purchase of the goods, as raw materials, and the buyers, on the other hand, are the buyers, and here you have to do what this law needs to do, need to make some balance. Because whoever's at the beginning of that whole chain and those whole stories are the primary producers. At the beginning of all those, they are the weakest, and the weakest are farmers, small and medium-sized enterprises who, small and medium-sized enterprises, small and medium-sized enterprises in processing and there is something that needs to be balanced. Is that possible? I'm not sure, this law is that, in the way he defined, that it would be possible or there would be an even bigger gap between one and the other, which should never happen and should not do that at all. So there should be done somehow, to protect those who are the least possible in terms of some food trade on a European or world stage, there's us somewhere below 4 million and we're relatively small, but we're always for someone interesting, and what we always have to keep in mind, the end-user. So, the one who comes to the store and buys something. To protect them, to keep what he buys, to be quality, preferably to be domestic, that this problem we have, the competitiveness of foreign cheap, yes, but in favour of the domestic, that's the part that you have to have and the promotion, you have to lead and point to a series of things, so that's what the ministry's role is. What is the role of AZTN that implements this Law is actually the one, the one where you have to, where you do certain unannounced visits, you have the ability to do checks, you have the possibility of unannounced control. Croatia is a small country. My experience is that all of a sudden, once you have unannounced control somewhere, regardless of what you can do in Osijek, the same moment is known by Rijeka and Pula for the simple reason that it shows that it really counts. It's no accident that I asked the minister a question, and it's about people who do it. The answer to a part of the question how many people at the Agency are working on these jobs today and what we know, we know that six new people are going to get a job. The experience that we have and which will be growing, and that is, that we have on one side unemployed people and we have this one, to call, under quotes, for some people, the attractiveness of working in public administration, and we have experience of doing people to you when you get certain experiences, certain knowledge and be able to, go, because you can't offer them in public administration, except possibly some minor advances, but also some other things and we'll meet in the future more and more. This Law also points to this fact that we try to hire in the public administration quality people, people who have experience, who have knowledge, who can then implement it. As far as possible, we'll see. We'll see how much you, so one lawyer, and lawyers are always, there's a lot of them, but it's always very hard to get because they have the attractiveness of all other things, and here they're looking for specific knowledge. So it's not a pleasant job when someone's going to work, so unannounced to come and exercise control, it's not a pleasant job. So, all that work is so awkward, and we should get quality people. Why am I talking about this? Because if you have people who know their jobs and do it well, that's how you encourage someone else to really take care of the whole thing. But all the time and in this law, we need to keep in mind what the end-user is, and the end-users are all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46829	You, too. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Ruzica Vukovac, who will speak in front of the House Movement Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46830	Dear Vice-President HS, honourable ministers, state secretaries with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. So the anonymous poll the ministry is calling for actually did not measure the impact of a single regulation. In particular, when the law is passed, full analysis should be carried out, in particular to identify the addresses where an individual effect will be expected and monitored. I am an indicator in an anonymous survey that the law had an effect on improving liquidity is not relevant and at least verifiable data. It cannot be fully concluded that the law had positive effects, especially given the fact that we heard that the continued problematic cooperation between the agricultural inspection and the AZTN itself and the Competition Protection Agency, which is why it is not listed as an analysis of the impact of an anonymous survey but is called for professional publications and research from 2009. Furthermore, AZTN still does not have a method of self-sustaining control and fact-finding, which significantly slows down the process itself. Similarly, if it is to judge the impact of the AZTN report published on their pages as an official report in most of the proceedings initiated by AZTN's cost, therefore the traders finally initiated an administrative dispute. A large number of such disputes have not been resolved yet and we do not know when it will be. In view of these unsolved cases, of course, the question of the effect of the law itself is raised. As far as I know, we still have a list of A, a list of B products in the shops themselves, and it's big trade chains, so it's about food for which the manufacturer has to accept the return and the smaller lists for which the return cannot be done after all. The producers themselves, taught by experience, found Internet sales channels, as well as the supply and sale via market spaces themselves. But the situation with the crown will only later give us real effects when we see how much production in the Republic of Croatia is, and when the channels of direct sales remain closed. Only an indicator of the catalogs of trade chains in which the sale, action and similar marketing activities of Croatian producers are advertised, which as such are not covered by this law, clearly shows the model of unfair practices which are applied in Croatia, and in particular those as such do not fall part of previously known contractual activities, or, for example, the e-mail trader to the supplier who is called on to participate in marketing activities without stating the promotion of a strictly specific product being considered an unfair practice within the meaning of this law. Furthermore, if we only observe a segmentary previous law does not consider unfair commercial practice the moment when a return is made for the expiry of the duration. I think we'll all agree that it is a very serious unfair commercial practice. But given the fact that Croatian small producers do not have developed processing, they are not associated to make processing at lower prices, especially fruit and vegetables, by adopting this law since 2017. They remain unprotected. Namely, the buy-in organization itself is often centralised and the supplier, or manufacturer, does not have the possibility of affecting the shortened deadlines from the production to the store policy. All the fruits and vegetables that stood on the warehouse and waited for the distribution channel if, in the meantime, part of the waste goes to the manufacturer's load and manufacturers do not usually raise such a product but only accept a smaller amount of charge. But if the manufacturer were to ask for his product back, he would have to walk in the shops and collect it himself, which, of course, represents additional costs. Now that's actually the reality of implementing this law. Art. 17a. which prescribes the system control itself and is not so bad, but the question is whether the State Inspectorate has the capacity to carry out the same controls at all since we heard that the Agency is not. The statement of the article itself is quite illogical given that the administrative procedure begins with a solution, and the solution comes as a consequence of actually the pre-determined facts. So the question arises, do you in art. 17a. The Agency shall have the grounds and circumstances leading to the administrative procedure or not? If there is, they will have unannounced control, so everything has already been established because there is no basis for administrative proceedings. Why is the deadline for repairing or implementing the measures ordered by the agency so long as 60 days? If it is not considered possible within 60 days, irreparable damage may occur for suppliers he cannot bear. For example, why can the deadline not be 15 or 30 days? What can't a merchant solve in 15 or 30 days, and it can't be done in 60? Namely, for individual producers the entire season lasts 60 days, and what will a buyer or trader do when the ransom season is over? Maybe put the product back on the shelves? If he can't do it otherwise, we suggest that he formulate himself in a way that puts the longest time limit of 60 days. Points 5 and 6 of that article are also pre-liberal, it is clear that, if no solution is made, fines shall go until the execution of 10 thousand kuna and that is prescribed by the General Administrative Procedure Act. I don't see why this isn't worth it to the Agency, but the Agency is renewing the procedure, and then it's considered a difficult situation in the adoption of fines. I don't even know what that means. The punishment is pronounced or the punishment is not pronounced? Violation, as such, is prescribed or not prescribed. What is visible is that there was a tendency to accept the contents of the directive, but the process itself of determining, and ultimately, the adoption of a solution is in the long Croatian judiciary, thus stretching to the fact, never ending and never condemned, and agricultural production has its clear beginning and end. The season lasts for fruit and vegetables, with a wave of 45 to 60 days, with exceptions and as visible as it is, the process of determining there is no chance of ending no more than 180 days, which means that by not knowing what time we actually managed to protect those large scales of small and killed the safety of our citizens and producers in the rule of law because even when at European level we have the basis and when Europe gives us the frameworks, then we remember once again the judiciary and the possibility that the process will never end and never be sanctioned by what is wrong, because, if nothing else, there is also an administrative dispute that is going on and going on and on and on, of course, there is always the possibility that the state will pay compensation to a trader who is not in a hurry anyway and knows that there will be a team of legal experts in this country all the same time. And once again to support this thesis and ask the question, why does this law have a specific provision for fines in such a way as to prescribe only the highest penalty? Why isn't a minimum sentence mentioned? What happens when a trader is punished with 5 or 10 thousand kuna? Is that the purpose of this law? That a merchant who has income from a couple of million kunas pays a fine of ten thousand kuna? Is that it, it's all in accordance with this Law. Is that really an emergency? I must mention that Croatia is otherwise also a signatory of the so-called The milk package that asked us to establish as many producer organisations as possible, so today our buyers, in particular in the dairy sector, do not negotiate with producer organisations at all, and do not want to conclude contracts with them as relevant entities, and this should certainly be part of this bill's proposal, and I would like to add to everything another unfair commercial practice, although not commercially, but rather politically, so making correct assessments of the effects of the regulations and the legislation prescribed to assess the effects of the regulations that also the proposing's obligation, should have been common practice and its result should have been an integral part of this bill. Since the beginning of the work of this assembly, not a single draft law has had an assessment in its contribution, although it is also prescribed by the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and that Article. 174. If that's not unfair to the MPs, I don't know, then it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46831	Thank you. Mr. Sinisha Yunkash will speak in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46832	... Secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. [[Specially enabled.]] We have before us the Law prohibiting unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain. These amendments and the law prohibiting unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain require the harmonisation of certain provisions of the EU, EU Parliament and Council Directives of 17 April 2019 on unfair commercial practices and relations between undertakings, in the supply chain, agricultural and food products, in which the harmonisation is carried out with due regard, but also essential. In recent years, there has been a need at EU level to prevent unfair trade practices in the food supply chain leading to the fact that food supply chains are party to unequal economic forces and significant efforts have been made to achieve this task. In 2017, HS adopted the Law prohibiting unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain. The adoption of that law in the Croatian legal system establishes a legal framework for the establishment, insurance and protection of fair commercial practices with a view to protecting all food supply chain participants and introduces unfair commercial practices aimed at exploiting the significant negotiating power of purchasers or processors or traders in relation to their suppliers. A significant negotiating force has customers who achieved a total annual income of 15 million kuna or more. The current law as a significant negotiating force defined traders with a total annual income of 50 million kuna as a lower-rate, or 100 million kuna or more as a higher level. By passing the Law, agricultural producers and the food industry were in a particularly unfavourable position. Any law prohibiting unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain is the suppression of unfair commercial practices that are contrary to good business behaviour, against good faith and fair treatment, which in practice arises in the exploitation of the economic power and position of one party, in particular by the buyer in a business relationship, where disproportionate obligations are imposed by the other party and economic actors are in an unequal position and are lost to the balance of rights and obligations. Such practices can be unfair, even if there is an opposite agreement between economic forces. In the case of trade in agricultural and food products, the need to introduce protection against unfair commercial practices of agricultural producers and food industries, which often consumers have imposed such practices using their position and stronger economic power, is above all the protection of farmers, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises in processing. The amendments to the Law prohibiting unfair commercial scratches in the food supply chain are essentially in line with the definitions and concepts of the Directive, for example. The purchaser, the processor, the trader, these changes are replaced by the expression of the buyer, instead of the concept of fresh agricultural and food products, introduces the concept of corrupt agricultural and food products, the terms of the primary producer,... the trader and the processor, and other concepts are also harmonised. These amendments and additions change the scope of the product in such a way as to extend the products to which this law applies, and the same as so far applies to those products covered by the current regulations of the law in question, which is food, but also unprocessed agricultural products. The ban on exploiting a significant bargaining force against the supplier is also regulated by imposing unfair commercial practices. The law lays down a provision governing the amount of total annual income, including the annual income of related companies, which is then considered to be the obligor of this law, so it is considered that a significant bargaining force has a buyer who has achieved a total annual income of at least 15 million kuna. An obligation shall be imposed on the customer to submit, at the request of the Competition Protection Agency, information relevant to the determination of its total annual income and receipt within 60 days and, otherwise, to initiate the procedure for determining the existence of the conditions for payment of fines. Amendments and additions to art. The 11th Act regulates the obligation to enter into a contract between the buyer and the supplier in writing and describes in more detail the content of the contract in such a way that it contains all the relevant provisions for the business or relationship of the contractual forces. In addition, the way in which the price of a agricultural or food product is established, the terms of regular or irregular delivery of the product as payment deadlines shall be introduced, the conditions of exemption from the obligation to conclude a contract between the buyer and the supplier in writing shall be governed. The rules and responsibilities of the issuing of invoices and the buying-in bloc are also more detailed and the list of unfair commercial practices is expanded, thus including in the law of all unfair practices described in the Directive. As unfair commercial practices, where the customer pays the supplier in the longer than prescribed time limits, cancels the order, requires the payer not related to the sale of the compensation for the loss or loss of food products after the transfer of ownership to the buyer, reveals business secrets of the supplier, threatens the supplier with implementing measures of commercial retribution, requires the supplier to pay compensation for the analysis of the end-user’s complaints, then the compensation for the inclusion of the product in the offer, as well as for the storage and manipulation of the after-delivery measures, requires the provider to issue insurance instruments for the re-comparation of the insurance, and that the buyer has no obligation to issue insurance funds in the taken and the products collected. As an unfair commercial practice, it also determines the requirement of customers for rental fees, the requirement of market research fees, the removal of products from the list without prior written notice, the charging of staff costs, the collection of costs, additional quality controls of the product, the charges and the contracting of fees not shown on the account, not taking over the contract quantity of the product, the sale of products at a price lower than or below the price of the product and below the final selling price. Other unfair commercial practices of the customer have also been supplemented with the addition of possible exemptions from the prohibition. It's the 12th law. The rules of conduct of the announced control carried out by the Competition Protection Agency as the authority responsible for the implementation of this law have also been developed. Particular attention shall be paid to mechanisms to protect the identity of applicants of unfair practices, and this shall be done in accordance with the observations of the Committee on Agriculture, so that the rights of protection against reprisals for the parties to the presentation or anonymous notifiers affected by unfair trade practices in the supply chain of agricultural and food products and the right to verify the identity of the notifiers. Provisions have also been amended to regulate the punishment of a customer who is engaged in unfair commercial practices in his business. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 18. This provides for the taking over of obligations by a customer who is a party to the procedure in order to quickly eliminate established unfair practices, so that the customer against whom the procedure has been initiated may propose, within 60 days, to take the obligation to implement certain measures and conditions and deadlines in which he intends to do so and to remove unfair commercial practices. The current law added a new Chapter 3 which regulates the cooperation of the Competition Protection Agency with the European Commission and the implementing bodies of the EU Member State and the reporting. The provisions of Art. The 24th law lays down fines for serious and minor infringements of the law, setting the amount of 5 million kuna as the maximum amount of fine that can be imposed on a legal person and the amount of 2,5 million kuna as the amount of penalty that can be imposed on a natural person considered a buyer. We expect that these amendments and amendments to the law will improve the rights and system of measures to prevent and impose unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46833	Thank you very much, Mr. Yankee, thank you. And now the last club, the club of representatives of HSS and HSU to be represented by Mr. Zeljko Lenart. Here you go. A microphone, a microphone, a microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46834	Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. There is a very simple question about this topic, is there really a will to solve this problem in Croatia? Why am I asking this question? We live in a country where the judiciary does not function or operates under strange circumstances, the judges are in many corruption affairs, there are also certain rulings, the implementation of judgments, the maintenance of penalties, payment fees and in this light talk about unfair commercial practices, although it would be better if we called the Law on Fair Trade Practice, and at least it would sound positive, becoming slowly amazing. He often feels for this pay phone in that "storm of a grandmother to pass the day" because we are discussing many laws, we are passing a large number of laws in HS whether they are bad or good and then after a while we see clearly not implementing all the laws we have passed here, about which we have discussed once more sharply, sometimes less sharply, sometimes shorter, but the effect is very, very weak. And this law will show time whether it will live, whether the result of its adoption will lead to an increase in agricultural production or a decline in agricultural production. Unfortunately, with all our attempts to demonstrate an increase in agricultural production, it's not really happening. Last year there was an increase in agricultural production, but it was an exceptional climate year, so the contributions in war cultures were 20% higher than they were years ago. What happens in agriculture is industrialization of agricultural production. I am not saying this by heart because here is Janusz Wojciechowski, who is EU Commissioner for Agriculture and Rural Development, says that small farms have disappeared, and huge industrial factories that receive European money are in place. There is a similar situation in Croatia. We don't have maximum support. The large ones receive large amounts of support and are transformed into an industry in agriculture, and as such they can deal with trade chains and fight for their rights and place on the market. But we said that our OPG is the foundation of agriculture in the Republic of Croatia, but we can see by all accounts that it is not. The same happens in Poland where Mr. Janusz says he's been in the past 10 years. 190.000 small farms have gone missing and their place has been occupied by the large industry i.e. large agricultural producers. Irish Europarliamentary Chirs Macmanus said, he also criticised the CAP and its role in providing support to small ones, says he is very concerned that this will be the last generation of family farmers. All of this is pointed out by these trends, and thus this customer-to-manufacturer relationship, especially those of the smaller ones in Croatia, where smaller producers working with large chains are unhappy with unfair contracts. Why the unjust? Because contracts have to be respected only by them, and when chains have to respect contracts and then contracts don't work anymore. And in this case, when the riots are simply thrown off certain shelves from certain chains and their production into which they have invested probably a lot of money because only the larger ones can participate and compete in the centres, it collapses because they have no place to place the goods, especially when it comes to vegetable goods and fruit growing in the Republic of Croatia. I don't know how long we're going to cheat ourselves into all this, we realize how many affairs we've had in agriculture, out of meat affair, out of an affair with olive oil recently, so we've closed the sugars, it's hard to count all that. The agricultural land law we passed more than 3 years ago. did not do his job that was supposed to highlight the moratorium for foreigners to buy land in the Republic of Croatia, agricultural land and is simply worth the simple law, which is that "the big fish eat small fish", it is obvious in the Republic of Croatia. When you see and debates in the agricultural chamber and when you see agricultural debates at all levels, they largely dominate these discussions and want their very desires to be carried out by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The government usually has obligations according to because they're campaign financiers and then they have to listen to what they want, but that's how we kill the O.P.G.s. Unfortunately, our farmers are going to Europe to do other jobs. I've got some acquaintances who got a job at a farm in Germany where the owner of the farm wondered how they failed in Croatia, and they know how to work cattle, and they know the job. Recently, in my first reading of this law, I also mentioned a case of corn fraud that took place in Sisak-Moslavina County, in particular Dubice, where farmers almost brought corn from all over the county. You could also see the story in the show "The Fruits of the Earth", so it's almost two years away, but nothing happened. All actors know each other, those who took over the goods are known who should pay for the goods, who needs to be paid for the goods, but to this day nothing has happened, and RS institutions have tried to protect producers who have worked for almost a year more productively to sell what they should have lived on. And in such circumstances when we talk about unfair or fair commercial practice, unfortunately people just don't believe in everything we discuss in HS and all of these laws that we bring to HS. More and more people are losing hope, leaving production, our markets are dying, there's less and less supply in the markets, more and more people are giving up on that job because simply big centres have taken over the supply of agricultural products and they want to, whether they want to or but I prefer to believe that they really want to destroy the OPG, and that's what colleagues from Europe are saying. When a man from Poland says that, and Poland knows that he has withdrawn among the most recent funds from the eu funds, then I'm really worried about that, especially for the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, production from that country, I can say now that I am a Yugoslav, but I didn't, I studied at that time at the Faculty of Agriculture so that I have no idea what production was, is unfortunately an unattainable dream for us in Croatia today, an unattainable dream both in quality and in quantity. We let ourselves be dictated by foreigners, dictated through malls that we allowed to be built in the centres of smaller cities, that they simply dictate what to sell, how to sell, what to produce, who to live and who to fail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46835	Thank you, Mr. Lenart. Now we move on to individual debates. The first is Mrs. Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46836	Two are big problems. The first problem is the reduction of agricultural production, which is rare within the EU, which affects Croatia greatly. And the other is the problem that is inextricably linked to this, precisely the problem of unfair commercial practices. If we carefully examine the report of the Competition Protection Agency, then we find one defeating figure, which is that there is almost no chain that was not in any way part of unfair commercial practice and therefore received a large fine. What the problem is and what the agency points out is that the larger ones can dissipate by paying the same penalty so that they further problem their decision in different administrative courts while the smaller ones who do not have such purchasing power can actually pay that decision. But what we would like to do is, of course, do unfair commercial practices right in large ones, so sanction those who really have serious purchasing power. So, what's the problem with this law now? In this debate I will be more concrete, the problem is that we support this intensity to find the asymmetry that leads to the possibility of exploiting its significant negotiating force and to protect our small farmers, suppliers and all those who are truly at risk in Croatia. But we must be aware that we also want to protect both small and medium-sized enterprises that are buyers, so nowhere is it specified that the buyer is necessarily the one who is bigger and stronger. This is often the case as I have told you in the case of Vindia in relation to a small supplier who produces milk. Yes, it's quite logical for us to assume either from Lidl in relation to Plodine or any other chain that has been sanctioned, which has exploited its significant negotiating power. But when we talk about the relationship between our small and medium-sized enterprises with regard to the EU or, let's say, our fruit and vegetable buyers in relation to suppliers who have even objected to this legislative proposal, that doesn't have to be the case at all. It is therefore necessary to regulate the Article. 4. so that this relationship is set in proportion to proportionality. So, to include the negotiating force or the traffic and the customers and suppliers, not just one side as if the other could be any one, because that's none of our business. This is how the directive is also prescribed within the EU. Therefore, both suppliers and customers must be taken into account. This is a key problem that we must face in this legal framework if we really want to avoid unfair commercial practices. Another problem concerns the regulation of unannounced controls. So we are in favour of the agency taking a proactive role and more control of unfair commercial practices. But here it has in Article 11. different powers which are not necessary, which in some ways also affect the rights of customers, but can also result in greater damage if they are easily corrupt products. In addition, despite the fact that most of what the Agency can do when unannounced controls are listed, it is again left with the possibility in Article 17(5) of that Article that there is still something left to be done which it considers necessary. This should therefore be cast out so that all criteria and in some other articles that we will propose within the amendment are unequivocally placed so that these controls are not carried out arbitrarily and that there is no abuse of the new role that the Agency will play and that will be strengthened this way. Finally, I will again visit that one of the key tasks of the Ministry of Agriculture is to protect farmers. In that sense, the ministry had to react earlier when the sale of our OPGs was threatened, and now it should react when threatened and already long-term, and we are afraid it will remain that way. all agricultural production. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46837	You have two replicas. The first line is, the first line was sought by Mrs. Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46838	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, so we have the amendment and addition of the basic law of 2017 which entered into force in 2018, it has been in force since 2018 and so far. And it would seem kind of correct to me that, in the light of the reasons for making the changes and the additions, we got little and the experience of the agency is, which implements the law and before, which are the experiences, which are the problems, which are the legal solutions that have led to some problems being solved. We already have a bunch of laws and we will probably become the strongest in the EU where we comply with EU directives, where when either one of us is in the debate and in the first reading and in the second reading, it is because one of us is asking for it. That's not true. So Croatia can always have its specifics, but we do it in the light of the law We don't win. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46839	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46840	I agree with my colleague, Mrak Taritash, and I particularly find it problematic that when we are told that a regulation or an EU directive is implemented that assumes that we should not come out of this framework, it is not an opportunity that when we are already combing the law to make some additional changes that would benefit our suppliers from customer relations. No, no, no, it's not in this directive. But every five minutes we change the law, when another directive comes or someone is thought to need it instead of making systematic changes. I find this a significant problem just as difficult and the fact that this law came to the agenda of the Croatian Parliament 5 days ago. So I consider these laws organic laws. Sometimes people wonder how, from where my interest in them so much, I was expected with worldly themes. Yes, I am a philosopher, but without this, we can't live and this concerns every citizen of Croatia. Therefore, there should always be a minister when this law is discussed and the laws must come to us in time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46841	Thank you. Mr. Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46842	Dear Vice President, dear fellow Members, you and your colleagues often point out that there is a constant reduction in agricultural production in Croatia, which is absolutely not true. Agricultural production, or mainly war production, is on the rise, this is statistics. When we talk about livestock production as a branch of some kind in agriculture, you forget the fact that in Croatia, 20, 30 years ago, the number of inhabitants, mostly after the Homeland War, was significantly reduced, mainly in rural areas which were largely engaged in livestock farming at the time. Simply if there are now in those areas where there are no people normally that there can't even be livestock production. That's not the fault, and this government knows who's to blame. I would ask Mr. Lenart how much he received at that time, or his family and family support, and what did his economy look like to him at the time, and what does he look like now? What tractors and machines were then worked by him and his father and grandfather And what's he doing now? [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46843	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46844	So, as far as livestock production is concerned, I was very specific, and I said feathers, pigs, cattle, I don't think, and I don't want to cheaply politicise here that this is a simple and easy-to-solve problem that I don't know with a moment from the ministry is going to disappear. No, of course not. This is a long-term problem that continues and is partly and inherited. But I'm sure things don't have to look this bad. Surely this is not one problem but all the ministries. Surely the recovery plan must be directed so that we can make ourselves self-sufficient that this crisis has taught us. Surely we should have encouraged OPGs in markets that are open during the crisis, not just to focus on shopping centres that also have significant negotiating power, so I guess that's obvious. And certainly you can do a lot, a lot more. That's where he's The responsibility of the authorities. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46845	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mrs. Wesna Nadj's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46846	Dear Mr. Vice President, Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. When it comes to the final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law prohibiting unfair commercial practices, the fundamental question that we aim at adopting this law is, and will we succeed through its application, to the stated objective? In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. Paragraph 2 of this Act states that the aim and purpose of the law is to establish, ensure and protect fair commercial practices that protect participants in the supply chain of agricultural and food products. Will this be achieved by fines prescribed at a maximum amount of up to 5 million kuna for a legal person and 2.5 million for a natural person? He won't. And these are small amounts for trade chains, and that's usually foreign trade chains that show huge incomes and profits and growth from year to year every year. Just for example. In 2018, Lidl made a profit before tax of 434.7 million kuna with a 25% growth. And it is now expected that such powerful trade chains will be intimidated by the prescribed fines and will proceed with fair commercial practices compared to small and medium-sized suppliers or agricultural producers selling agricultural and food products. A little tomorrow. And what was the state supposed to do? The State must strengthen the bargaining position of the producer in the supply chain of agricultural and food products and enable them to conclude long-term contracts in accordance with fair commercial practices. It also needs to be created to create an environment for association with cooperatives or other organisational forms in order to have greater negotiating power. Incentive measures should strengthen the cultivation of local varieties and breeds, thus moving regional employment and sustainable biodiversity and reducing the import of food products of dubious quality. It is necessary to create a infrastructure that will stimulate and cheap agricultural production and allow quality storage of agricultural products. Therefore, we need to build a system of renewable energy production, irrigation and fighting protection, and this year the need for a system for protection against frosting for orchards, freezers and stock exchanges for the sale of agricultural products, as well as infrastructure for the provision of digital technology "New Generations" to rural areas has been demonstrated. Why does the Republic of Croatia not encourage a sustainable and competitive agricultural sector that would contribute to the European Green Plan, especially given the "From Field to Table" strategy and the "For Biological Variety" strategy? We have agricultural land that could feed all of Croatia and could still be exported, and we import agricultural products of suspicious quality. That is why we are constantly reading about the withdrawal from the sale of harmful agricultural products on the pages and in the media of the Croatian Agency for Agriculture and Food. So, for example, “la bio idea pesto siciliano” due to the possible presence of glass fragments in the content, sesame seeds, increased amount of ethylene oxide, fasèn spinat, possible presence of tropanese alkaloids, and imagine for infants and young children. Under this law, AZTN as the body responsible for the implementation of this law should also carry out unannounced controls and controls on applications as an anonymous rule. However, let us not be fooled, nor does the agency have administrative capacity to carry out continuous and comprehensive unannounced controls, nor will there be a lot of anonymous applications because people fear they will not be discovered. If this country does not create an environment in which it will strengthen administrative capacity, independence in the right sense of the word and quality of the Agency's work and strengthen the position of anonymous applicants of unfair commercial practices, "Write home has failed". We have satisfied the form, we have harmonised the law with the EU directive, and we will continue to eat agricultural products of questionable quality, and our quality products will be eaten by Italians, Germans, Austrians. Would you like to buy asparagus from the Croatian fields? He can't, but he can do those from Spain from Mexico. We are far from agricultural self-sufficiency and light years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46847	Thank you. You have several replicas, the first replica has Mrs. Selak Rasudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46848	I agree with you, colleague Nadj. It's this agricultural self-sufficiency that we should at least learn something about right now, we can't even see it, we don't see the farming strategy that it's going to develop into, we don't see the food banks that should have been here long ago, and we're transferring them from the document to the document. What I'd like to ask you is, we don't get any explanation about how these amounts are being arranged, on what basis they're being determined, which should be paid as a penalty because the problem is what you said, the big nothing, and the kid's all too much? On the other hand, it was said that intensity is such as to change practice, not to charge penalties. Why is there no possibility, for example, of a peaceful dispute resolution? So, and the key to what you have set and in the replica, who will be punished and will anyone ever be punished for failings in that so many legal provisions are being amended, which is contrary to the nomotechnical rules, rather than going into the making of a new law?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46849	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46850	Thank you very much, very much, very much. Thank you very much, very much, very much. So, the fact is that we don't really respect our own normative regulations that we bring into this HS and actually the minister didn't answer anything because she doesn't really know why she didn't pass the new law, probably her lawyers do. But when we talk about penalties and the whole penalization policy, we should work more on prevention, not actually on punishment. Because this punishment actually, like I said, has no purpose because it's a small amount for large chains that have big incomes and get.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46851	Mrs. Devereaux. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46852	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Comrade Nadj, you have also pointed out in your replica the fact that when a certain percentage changes the law that you should then work and be a new regulation. And you emphasized the role of the legislation office. The legislation office, among other things, is its role to look at each other's compliance with certain regulations and to point to such things. But we have a series of cases now. Last week, we had a case where we discussed a state report in the area where the legal provision said it was brought in four years, and it was done neatly in seven years. So, I would say that one topic is to discuss the content of the regulations and to discuss it well, but if we forget the form and if we don't stick to some things, then we're going to have quite a kick here. I don't see why some forms aren't respected is it supposed to be simple, we should live in a country where, among other things, the form is respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46853	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46854	Thank you, colleague Taritash. So, when the legislative proposal actually goes into debate, a number of offices pass, and so does the Office for the Law of the Government and the Committee on the Legislativeness of this HS. The laws are not only written for lawyers, they are written for citizens who will take one law and read it and know what it is, as prescribed. If you have ten changes, then people can't handle it, so law enforcement is questionable. So that's the goal of the topic, and actually these normative rules that we've come up with in this HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46855	Thank you. Mrs. Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46856	Dear colleague Nadj. Due to the disproportion of domestic brands and private brands of trade chains in the formation of a retail price for certain products, there is a divergence in the final retail price of up to 60%. This way, because of the unfair trade, Croatian brand manufacturers fail, and thus comes through a longer or shorter period of time until Croatian production fails, please comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46857	I'm sorry, I know it's hard, but you have to hold the mask. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46858	The fact is that in trade chains we have more foreign products than domestic products, and in fact, the Ministry of Agriculture and other ministries should encourage Croatian production so that they can actually eat quality Croatian agricultural products.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46859	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas, thank you. And now it's Mrs. Mariana Petyr's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46860	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister with associates, MPs and MPs. It is certain that unfair trade practice is one of the most serious problems facing farmers across Europe and thus farmers in the Republic of Croatia. By adopting among the first ones in the EU the Law on combating unfair commercial practice, by harmonising among the first to the provisions of the European Directive and by extending the scope of unfair poisoning practices on them 43, it says that we have identified the problem and that we want to address it. However, this will certainly not happen overnight because it is not an easy process at all, given that we are part of the common European market, and then prices which, according to each of their effects, are thus not treated until so demanding evidence has been sought for the determination of predatory prices that only a few procedures have been initiated at EU level. I therefore believe that the reasoning that we have received as to how dumped and predatory prices are regulated by other regulations, so they should not be regulated and this law does not solve the problem because under the Law on Trade and the Law on the Protection of Competition there are real mechanisms and that they sanction such phenomena then they would not have a market for agricultural products flooded at dumped and predatory prices. It is also a confusing argument that, as an unfair commercial practice, sales of products cannot be determined at lower prices than producers because it cannot be done because there are no mathematical models or methodology to calculate that price. According to me, available information in the Republic of Croatia and calculations for the sake of the Advisory Service, there are specific observatorys at EU level for milk, meat, fruit, vegetables and wine which publish the parallel data of Member States at EU level. In addition, the DZS shall publish the average producer prices from the purchase and sale research that are calculated on the basis of the data collected on the quantity and value of agricultural products. I understand the concern of the legislator of this law that it does not want to violate competition and I do not call here to be misunderstood, that Croatia, as some other Member States may have done, in the making of the law, bypasses the Competition Protection Agency. What I call for are brave and creative political decisions that will protect domestic production and for which I will give maximum support. It is true that no common minimum agricultural price is prescribed at EU level, but there are market measures prescribed by the common agricultural policy to assist farmers and the European Commission has also established a system of monitoring the prices of agricultural products to be published monthly. So we have some instruments, some Member States have prescribed in their national legislation and the minimum price of agricultural products to protect their agricultural production, and some even introduce defenders for unfair commercial practices. The provision defining production and market-sensitive products is certainly a step forward in the effort to introduce protection measures in the area most affected today. I think that we should work parallelly to provide the infrastructure in the agricultural holdings needed to actually enable them to better place their products through short food supply chains, which would result in a reduction in imports. That is why it is important for us to choose the right measures through the programming that follows us to use almost five billion euros that we have secured in the EU to protect domestic production. I believe that this law is essential for the introduction of order on the market, so, with all the positive measures it takes, we need to recognise and determine those points that are problematic, we need to monitor the effects of this law, eliminate problems in order to allow farmers to finally pass through and that they can do normal business. That is why I do not see the adoption of this law as a final process, but I believe that our task is constantly to seek solutions that will bring unfair commercial practices down to a minimum and at the cost of more frequent amendments to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46861	Stay, please. The first replica, Mrs. Pryce. Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46862	A valid colleague, Petir, unfair commercial practices appear as one of the consequences of an unequal economic power of stakeholders in the food supply chain. They hit farmers, small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as the weakest link in the chain, but also small and medium-sized enterprises in the processing process. And that's all these small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and businesses are mentioned and the law includes those who have a turnover of 15 million kunas. So I ask you, where is the law protecting small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who are the weakest link in the food supply chain?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46863	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46864	Dear fellow MPs, this law is intended to protect small and medium-sized enterprises and therefore so many unfair commercial practices are prescribed. You noticed in my statement that and that was also during the first reading, that I also suggested some additional unfair commercial practices that I think should be introduced to protect small and medium-sized farmers. We are also invited to reform the common agricultural policy and this is foreseen by our national Agriculture Strategy, which is at its final stage of adoption. I can therefore conclude that this law goes with this goal, and in practice we will see if we can still introduce some mechanisms and how to introduce them so as not to conflict with the Competition Protection Act and to strengthen the position of our farmers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46865	Thank you. Mr. Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46866	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues. We are witnessing that precisely from the EU countries that are both in our environment and from third countries, products that are practically uncompetitive or that make unfair competition here by so-called. dumped prices. Here was also an example during the Coronation of Last year's import of meat from Germany and so on, and I am interested in it, given that we are a single European market, but it is a different regulatory framework in certain EU countries, I am interested in your comment and opinion on how and how to end it, or how to protect the domestic market anyway, because we saw in that video link conference when we had, that practically every EU country protects its market in the same way, right? So I'd like to hear your comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46867	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46868	Thank you very much, Your Honor. You are right, so Member States are trying to protect their agricultural production by introducing different mechanisms, these mechanisms can be prescribed by law and are then publicly available, can also be at the level of social partners' agreement, and this is particularly true in those countries where the strong producer organisations and associations representing farmers can be as so-called. Creative measures as I called them. I consider it personal, and this is what I suggest, that we must monitor the prices of our products and regulate that products that come under these prices come to the market are regulated as unfair commercial practices. Why would I think that? I think that's why... Thank you. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46869	Thank you. Mr. Shimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46870	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, unfair commercial practices unfortunately were when God walked the country even to this day, especially today, it is a very good business trade that makes good money. However, the Croatian producer is important to us and let us also buy Croatian. Now, can we change the paradigm and buy Croatian products, protect the Croatian producer and benefit from it all, have healthy food, have a manufacturer who can live on it and not import food that is harmful to health and actually question how much benefit we have from it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46871	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46872	Thank you very much, Your Honor. In any case, we must certainly change our consciousness and our consumers and call for domestic purchases, for this reason we must guarantee that what they wear is indeed domestic. I welcome the fathers of continuous and frequent controls that have been carried out lately, they are the result of these precisely our debates and such demands, but they also show that the jobs on the agricultural product market certainly have, and that this area is indeed daunting when it comes to fraud. So I think that the proven quality as one way of certification of our Croatian products that guarantees that this product bearing the Croatian proven quality is Croatian, is certainly a step forward in the consumer guarantee that by buying this product, they buy Croatian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46873	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Grman Kizzwat.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46874	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Petir, you have been a representative in the European Parliament, so I assume you know about this situation that I have stated that our law will not be harmonised until 1. In accordance with the 5th Directive, I'm interested in your thinking about that part. And on the other hand, you stated once that you had just initiated that the law, the original law on unfair commercial practice, is at all in Croatia, I'm interested in not being protected at all, but I'm curious at the time, not even now, small and medium-sized, how do you think I can protect these small and medium-sized farmers and producers, because let's be honest, rarely who has a turnover of 15 million kuna per year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46875	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46876	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, I don't think we'll be able to comply with the deadlines for harmonising our legislation with the European Directive. I think we're here in time and we won't have a problem here. I also believe that through this law mechanisms have been put in place to protect small and medium-sized agricultural producers and also to protect domestic production. What I call for is for it to be more determined and to be stronger and that we are looking for a certain space through national legislation because the European directive has given us that one width. I understand these remarks coming from the Competition Protection Agency on my observations and from the Ministry of Agriculture, but see if Italy could prescribe minimum prices for agricultural products, if we know what our producer prices are because we calculate them, then I believe there is one space where we may be looking for a solution to protect ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46877	He's a colleague of Ivanovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46878	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear MPs, you pointed out that this law will probably not achieve the final solution when it comes to unfair commercial practices, so I would like to ask you if you consider that building agricultural capacities, and here above all I mean refrigerators, floor warehouses, anything that can store products for some better conditions and ultimately bringing small producers together, will affect the reduction and number of cases of unfair commercial practices when it comes to protecting agricultural production.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46879	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46880	Thank you, Your Honor, I think that this is extremely important because it can enable us to access the implementation of short food supply chains more easily and quickly. I think that would be a solution to a lot of our problems because I've talked about it more than once, so if fresh milk was the one that, within 24 hours, comes from the farm to the store, fresh meat when it's prescribed that what comes from the slaughterhouse to the store is within 48 hours, then they'd probably eliminate a lot of imports, but we need infrastructure for that. That's why I called for smarter programming because we can't, in rural development measures, predict cycling paths as an important measure. It is a measure that contributes to the development of rural space, but let's help this small farmer create conditions for pasteurizing milk on his holding so that he can participate in a short food supply chain.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46881	And Mrs. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46882	Thank you, Vice President. If you consider that agricultural and food products should also be included in unfair commercial practices, the purchase of agricultural and food products below the market price in the countries from which products come and that appropriate penalties should also be imposed in breach of this practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46883	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46884	Thank you very much, distinguished MPs, so you've heard I'm even more rigorous than this proposal. This is a proposal from the pig grower that we expect the ministry to be manifested. My initial proposal was that it should not be below the production prices, but I can agree that this may be one amongst, inter alia, a compromise solution because market prices are being announced by all Member States at EU level, and this monitoring can be done so that here I would tend to all those who are appealing to think about such a single proposal because we think that we could then, in some way, protect domestic production and establish a fairer system.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46885	Thank you. No more replicas, thank you very much. And now it's Mrs. Anka's turn, Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46886	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers with Associates here in the second reading as I have already said we have the law and when we have laws I always think about them and somehow define them in form and content. And now let's talk about shape. When I was a little girl in another country and another system my uncle and aunt had a store in a small village near Bjelovar and I was very happy to go there on holidays because what other kids were playing shop I had in reality. I was standing at the counter there, so I pretended to be a salesman and everything and it made me very happy and so often I feel in this assembly. So we get the law in the first reading, then we try to make that law in the first reading, we make comments, we give suggestions, and we give it through work on individual committees, and then we get a very fast law in the second reading that it can be said that laws don't go into emergency procedures but go into two readings. And then you see the remarks that are being adopted are the observations of the Committee on Legislatives which are essentially nomotechnical, the remarks that are being adopted are eventually from the ruling HDZ together with the parties that it is, and what the opposition gives is very easy to say is not or have not gotten the conditions or not it's not good then, and then some times it gets a little bit more detailed, and some times a little less detailed explanation. And now it's become kind of a common practice. You know, you always have fashion, so in one time you wear green, in another board, in a third I don't know some color, and now we have laws, we get through two readings, the difference between two readings is what it's supposed to be so we're satisfied, but then we have a sequel to all of that. Then the amendments are given, and then these amendments are usually rejected. When an opposition amendment is adopted, then it is a great celebration of the opposition, here we have managed to pass one amendment. And then, say, in half a year or a year, we'll get that bill back into amendments and additions where exactly that amendment the opposition said it should be, will be in amendments and additions. And as long as we have one play like that, we won't make a step. So, the role of the opposition is to point out that it speaks to what is not good, the role of the government, until the ruling understands that they listen to the opposition, to realize that what the opposition indicates does not speak because it is bad, because there is no smarter work, but because it wants to get better rules because these regulations will ultimately benefit all and somehow we should all be in common, but really very often feel like a little girl when I was playing and in reality standing behind the counter. Any law when I come in, I kind of look at this content part and in those laws that I decide to discuss and I always set out a few things that I think are somehow the basis of that law and in this part and the basis of this amendment and the addition of the law. I wrote the following things, to see the practices of other EU member states, more honestly and more correctly define the relationship between suppliers and customers, to see exactly what our business environment is. Which means unannounced controls and ultimately how to protect domestic production. I have to be honest about that. In a country like our country, being a minister, in this case, the Minister of Agriculture, is not easy. It's not easy, everyone would like something, something to happen, if we had some steps. It's a very wide diapason of everything that needs to be dealt with and somehow it always seems to me that behind each minister should leave some, some improvements and that some step should go forward and we have and absolutely in terms of what we want from agriculture, we wander. You have some things in which we should really take a unique position, so whatever part of this assembly we're sitting in, but I think a lot more water will pass under the Sava Bridge until it happens to us. What should be of interest, interest should be to, in fact, protect farmers, protect those who are the weakest in all of this and who are not protected by anyone. And the role of the state and the role of the ministry should protect them, I'm afraid we didn't do it with this law either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46887	Thank you very much. Stay, you've got replicas. Let me just say, I couldn't agree more... I'm going to protocol, so I'm going to say, I totally agree with what you said, but it's always been like that no matter who was in power. Mr. Bauk, here you go, replica. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46888	Thank you. I agree with ma'am, too. Dark-Taritash, but she's actually deep in the dark. So what happens on Fridays in the assembly is one unfair commercial practice when HDZ and smaller coalition partners have to agree that they change the way they voted on boards in relation to the plenary session. It wasn't always like that, but it doesn't matter now. And what's most interesting, so we don't really know who the merchants are and who the buyers are in that case. Sometimes they buy one, and the other they sell, etc., but they know who pays, they pay mostly citizens, and maybe it's time for that unfair commercial practice to be interrupted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46889	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46890	Thank you very much. Now I'm going to try to answer, and I'm going to be in the dark. So, when it comes to unfair commercial practices, there's always a relationship, so two. One is a supplier, so one is, one is defined as a buyer, and the other is defined as sellers and there is always a relationship between the buyer and the seller. Here, this law went in favor of the one who buys, and we're trying to say that there should be an even relationship and that should be defined in that way. And on Fridays, what we saw in the assembly, we saw two examples. An example of when it was necessary to protect the abused women when the conditions regarding HDZ and their partners were not met and one very prose example of the last Friday that was when HDZ voted not to every 4 years. bring strategies.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46891	Thank you very much. Mrs. Devereaux. Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46892	Thank you. Dear fellow Taritash, I'm troubled by those six employees we're going to need in AZTN. The minister did not know how, how she would actually ensure the employment of these employees. I think we're going to get people who, who are going to be minors and that we're going to have a lot of time, we're going to have to spend a lot of time studying them. Wouldn't it make sense that the minister already had some kind of agenda at the Ministry of Agriculture animated her lawyers and economists to sort of report for this contest because I think if we have people who don't have the experience to do anything about this law?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46893	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46894	Thank you very much for your question. So we can have the most perfect laws in the world, they can regulate everything we need to regulate, but if we don't have people who are able to implement it, we're free. So what's the feature of working in the public administration is the following. You still manage to get the trainees and the trainees working, so a number of 12 months, 15 months and then get some experience, as soon as they get experience going to work somewhere else because, therefore, the private sector, I'm talking to them about some professional titles, but somewhere else it offers something that the public administration can't offer. Other countries have the same problem, but they do it in different ways, so let's say I have another 10 seconds, I'm going to try to say, let's say the Netherlands solves it in a way that when you work in public administration, you have more vacations, you have certain educations, you have better health care, so some other measures, there are measures to keep people. We just don't have it, and until we have people to leave us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46895	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Thank you. And now it's Mr. Stipan Sashlin's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46896	Dear Vice President, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow parliamentary deputies. Here is the second time we are now discussing this law or amendments to the law on unfair trade practices in the food supply chain, and that is the fact that it is currently one of the really burning problems in Croatian agriculture and that it will solve a part of these problems, however, I believe that everyone will, for sure, not be. The aim of these amendments to the laws is to establish as fair and fair as possible relations between suppliers and those sellers, as they are now categorized or named, right. With these amendments to the law, I say, we want, and we will indeed try to believe both opposition and ruling, all of us, to remove as many of these perceived negative or unfair commercial practices as possible, but no matter how hard we try, there will always be some new examples, some new ways that they will impose their will, their way of trade, etc., their conditions usually at the expense of the smaller ones. It is unfortunately so and I'm afraid it will remain so long, therefore this law otherwise laws are to be changed, so that they are adapted and when the need is observed, to be corrected in some way. So far, it has been common that farmers or producers often do not even report examples of negative trade practices because they are simply afraid that they will not be able to place their goods in that chain later on, etc. There is now an institute or protection here, in a way, the identity of applicants of unfair commercial practices, and I believe that this will in some way contribute to transparency or increased number of applicants, which is certainly good. One of the most common negative examples, I speak from experience in Slavonia and Baranja and there was so-called return of non-quality goods, i.e. shears, wastes, etc. Often, farmers, most often it was about fruit and vegetables, simply have to return their goods after a certain time because otherwise they are charged there by storage or decking, which often knows so much about being large that simply malts do not exceed the price of the goods themselves, right. That's what I'm saying, one of the frequent examples that proved to be a negative commercial practice. Also, as I said earlier in the replica, regardless of what we are a single market, the European market, often exactly goods from neighbouring European countries, and also from third countries, come here and make up unfair competition, or so on. dumped prices and thus simply endanger our production. In order to avoid this, I also said in that first reading of this law, I consider it necessary, if at all possible, to develop a stock exchange in the area or on the market of the Republic of Croatia, to have at any time control or to have knowledge of how many individual goods, whether we are sufficient in certain goods on the market and thus protect ourselves from then any additional imports, any dumped prices, etc., etc. There is a very important role of the Agency for the Protection of Markets and Competitions and the State Inspectorate. We've seen other European countries do it, and I think we need to learn something from them. It is also common that agricultural producers, warlords, cereals production etc., simply their products after harvest, after harvesting cannot be stored because they do not have the right facilities for warehouses, silos, refrigerators etc., are simply forced to hand over their fish and often do not know the real price at which they give it up. It is only then that later when this market salesman finds out the price on the market, then he tells them your goods, your grains, etc. will go at that and that price. This is a really big problem and this problem was recognized by both Osijek-Baranja County and Mayor Ivan Anusic's initiative, they launched a project... The coolant, or regional distribution centre in the county or Osijek, is worth about 100 million kn and this has proved quite well, the manufacturer's reactions are very, very positive and I think that's how [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] and such examples can help these agricultural producers protect themselves from these great, here, thank you. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, weather.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46897	Stay, you have two replicas. The first replica was asked for by Mrs. Devereaux. It's a ben.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46898	Thank you. Here's a colleague, it's clear that not all situations can be predicted by law itself, so we can't prescribe all situations in that sense. However, if we wanted to improve the position of those who are weaker on the market, these are mostly our producers because they are small, because they are depreciated, then why, for example, did we give in to certain provisions instead of strengthening the bans, such as the question of charging the producers of positions on shelves in shops? Or why do we not strengthen the system of acting on official duty, without reporting if we know that applications are in themselves problematic? Why don't we boost those capacities? I mean, for everything we've prescribed now, we've had time and money since 2005, the EU has given us money for that, and we're still in 2021. to think about how we're going to network our producers? [[Intruder Radin: Time.]] They're really problematic to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46899	Thank you very much. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46900	Thank you. Good question, I haven't been able to say in my speech, but we must also encourage association, what to say is a horizontal association of small producers in order to strengthen their negotiating position in the talks with these large ones, but it is also necessary to enable and provide certain legal assistance through associations, through professional associations, chambers, etc., to these very smallest ones who often simply cannot and often do not have quality or contracts with these buyers and simply, write down what is offered to them and then later see that it is not true. So there's a series of measures that have to go parallel to this law to sort of protect and help the little one.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46901	Thank you. Mrs. Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46902	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Shashin, I think you've been well-detecting, not this law of the Holy Scriptures, so we don't need to take it as a final law, but we now see that through the implementation we've come to some different solutions, we've introduced new unfair commercial practices. Surely, the implementation of these measures that we now prescribe will determine that there are even better measures or that some other measures may be more effective. The association of producers is extremely important and it has proved crucial in the negotiation and, for example, you can see in Belgium where you have strong producers of the organization that trade chains do not make sense to put meat, milk, eggs, fruit, vegetables from imports while there is domestic. But the fact is, we still need a lot of work to do that. It is therefore important for us to create in law mechanisms that will help us to regulate the market while producers themselves do not strengthen that they can really have a good negotiating position. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46903	Answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46904	Thank you. Uh, I really agree absolutely, completely with you. The fact is that we are a relatively young country, and in particular we are a small and young country in the EU. We simply need to learn all of this together, including our agricultural producers and all together. And it is up to us here to, on, at the Croatian Parliament or the legislative body to pass as high-quality laws as possible to ensure the protection of these people as well as possible, and time will simply show that we will have to adapt to each other in the coming period and in the coming years that simply through practice we will show the need to amend certain laws etc. It is a continuous process that will last and how much we are all together in this capacity and in some ways unique that will certainly make the results better.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46905	Thank you, no more replicas, thank you very much. And now it's Mr. Goran Ivanovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46906	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, State Secretarys, Associates, colleagues and colleagues, we who come from Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema are always interested, of course, in laws that can contribute to and protect competition in a certain way, especially when it comes to unfair commercial practices. Perhaps it would be the case or rareness to list fair commercial practices, small producers are simply in an unfavourable position when dealing with large food distributors and supply chains. Therefore, this initiative, which is also being promoted by the Minister, and of course the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture Ms Marijana Petir, is short supply chains. I think it's a big rescue for agricultural production and it will certainly be a measure that will need to be focused on and with which we will achieve a much better effect. We've heard a lot about it here, and in our first reading, of course, I think that unfair commercial practices are something that has to end. It's not easy, you've seen from these reports, and when you start the procedure and when you prove unfair commercial practice, the court proceedings go on indefinitely and the question of whether or not to be charged doesn't charge everything you're looking for. I think it's a good thing. From 50 million to 15 million for big with 100 million also to 15 million, I think that's something that's good. Will six new employees manage to deal with it all, an absolutely good question. I think we need to tie up the inspection absolutely and all the other state bodies dealing with the implementation of laws like this. But I think one thing is very, very important. And that's first of all a merger. So there is no agricultural production or improvement for agricultural production until we realize that association is something without which we can't move on. It protects us in all segments. And when it comes to farming, all the way to the market. I think it's very important. And secondly, our agricultural infrastructure is very, very bad, and then it happens to us that we already have shoppers on the market that offer you money for something you've just sown. So he's going to tell you I'm going to give you 80 limes per kilogram or kuna, no matter what at the time you're reading or having a harvest price is going to be 1.50 kuna. So that's the blackmail some small producers unfortunately have to agree to to pay their loans and what they have, which is very, very bad for agriculture. So I think we need to raise, something Mr. Shaslin was talking about, making regional distribution centres and the Ministry of Agriculture is very interested in that. You also saw this through the National Recovery and Resistance Plan that it is with these regional centres that it wants to help farmers or small family economies to protect their products and sell them when the price is much higher. Yesterday I was either in Lidl, 600 grams of apples, so 600 grams that's less than a kilo of 12 kuna and 40 limes, so a kilo would cost about 22 kuna, and our apple producers were satisfied in the autumn to get 30 or 35 cents per kilo, which would cover theirs, and there's something else, something to earn. Therefore, we have a big, big problem here and I have to say that here in the last few months and through the amendment of this law and the Law on Agriculture and everything that goes towards the protection of domestic agriculture seems good to me, we all have this common consensus that we want better agriculture in Croatia and there is no dispute at all and I hope that both the Ministry and of course the Committee on Agriculture and all of you representatives and all of us come to a solution that will be much better and that will eventually feel increased agricultural production in the area of Croatia. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46907	Mrs. Devereaux. The first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46908	Thank you. My friend, I can really say that you probably have good intentions and I see that your proposals are going in that direction, but I have to ask again, what prevented your party from putting short supply chains where it could have been for 10 years? 2004. and in 2005, I worked on the first regional operational programme for Lika-Senj County. What I insisted on was for Plitvice to open for local products. So there were EU money that could be invested in both warehouses and refrigerators and in the organisation of local farmers. The answer I received from the crowd was “make sure that something does not happen to you” because it is known who owns the national park market. Your ministers were there. We could've had short supply chains for 10 years. This is not the concept of the EU that they have now come up with from the sky, in the ribs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46909	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46910	I agree, he's got his own deadline every time. I hope that's the time you're talking about, I'm actually convinced of that, behind us. Here I am going to say one example and the Osijek-Baranja County, there I was deputy mayor, so I can talk about it. We introduced a free school meal for all students in the area of Osijek-Baranja County and precisely through these small suppliers and dairy manufacturers, bakery products, tried to establish such a short supply chain. And I think that time at the end of the day will force us to do it and I'm sure that these examples that you've brought here will be some distant past, and something else will be our future, hopefully much better and brighter.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46911	Mrs. Devereaux. Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46912	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. When we talk about short food supply chains, colleague Ivanovic, the fact is that we need to help our farms to adapt and to have adequate infrastructure to deliver this food. I therefore find it important to point out once again how important programming is for the next budgetary period and to recognise such measures that are not actually expensive. What I am told by milk producers is that they may be able, with some EUR 5,000, to train their economy to do whatever it takes to ensure that this milk is safe, healthy and that it can go to the market. In this regard, I also agree with your thesis that we need cooperation between the resolutions and enhanced work inspections because the State Inspectorate is in charge of implementing the Trade Act where quality is then analysed in accordance with those prescribed standards and what is declared.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46913	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46914	Thank you very much. So until we build these capacities that we talked about, and let's be honest, that infrastructure can't be built in a year, two, that's the process that's going to take, I just think that short supply chains are something we need. That food practically goes right away, there's not much storage, there's not much thinking about some things, and it's certainly something that goes into it. And what I think, and so do we, and here we are in the Committee on Agriculture, I think we're sometimes stiff, I think we're sometimes looking beyond serial standards. And imagine, we're all fed up in the country, you had a bucket that you went to Grandma Love for milk and no one was infected or ignored or anything else. Today you must practically be an atomic physicist to get conditions and condition that you can distribute milk in your village. I think we need to be a lot more pragmatic here than it might have been by now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46915	Thank you. And the last replica of Mr. Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46916	Your Honor, Vice President. My colleague, here we are mentioning the role of the assembly, the role of the resolution ministry, etc. I'd like you to give me a little comment or your opinion in the role of regional or local self-government in all of this. Because often there has been a debate here recently as the milkman in Osijek failed, the "Meggle" went, etc., I think we also have very positive examples where, at the initiative of local or regional self-government, such problems are being solved, but perhaps even better solutions are being found to prevent or help these small producers. I'd like to hear your comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46917	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46918	Thank you very much. Of course local self-government and regional self-government are political bodies, but they are not immune to not following the market, not seeing what their economic operators are doing, whether they can help them and how they can help them. I can help them in a number of ways, with a conspiracy, that's how it was code, with "Meggle". "Meggle" announced that production was shut down in Osijek, a regional man or mayor of Osijek-Baranja County, along with the minister, with the prime minister, had set out to address the problem. Today, "Forten's Group" related "Belje Plus" took over Osijek's dairy and practically preserved the same number of jobs and the same number of suppliers that deliver milk and I don't think politics can be immune or abolized from what is happening in the economy, even the more it has to do, it has to precede it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46919	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. Thank you very much. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Romana Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46920	Thank you, Vice President. Today, we have been given the final proposal of the Law on the ban on unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain. Despite the supported facts in the first reading by the SDP Club that better this proposal is withdrawn until more concrete and more high-quality legislation is passed, this has not happened. This Law will further encourage imports to the detriment of domestic producers and introduce complex procedures that could result in an increase in costs throughout the food supply chain. The definitions in the amendments and additions to the Act are not public, so the ultimate selling price, the price at which the trader sells the product in retail to the end consumer, is formed in a way that the purchase price of agricultural and food products is multiplied by a minimum coefficient of 1.10. What does that even mean? In addition, we're interested in what costs enter that coefficient of 0.00? Is that a margin, some other fee? We believe that customers should know what they pay through clearer provisions in the law. We insist on supplementing the definition, the final selling price, as well as the other provisions that apply to it. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 7 prescribed The elements of the buy-in block are the quantity of goods, quality and established prices, and clearly the amounts of the contracted discounts or rebates and the exact specification to which they relate in accordance with the publicly published and binding terms of the customer to the supplier. However, what is not defined is the deadline for the ransom bloc to be issued. We assume that the buyer must fill in the storage loop and record the entry of the product into the accounts for further accounting. In the real world of producers, it's not like that. Sometimes ransom blocks don't come out when they take over goods, and they don't even know the price. Amendments, pages 3 and 5 on our proposal have been introduced, but no deadline has been defined, which we insist on. It is another item that is unclear in the law, but it is still logically necessary, and obviously unnecessary to the rulings. Our Ministry of Agriculture must understand that they must consult with producers because it is the only way to detect the problems that need to be solved, not to pass ad hoc laws that serve nothing, nor to help farmers or society as a whole, but only one check that the competent ministry has passed both that law and removed it from the agenda. In the end, she would only end up referring to the replica of Representative Shaslin as regards Meggle only after my colleague Hajdukovic and I reacted and pressured the current mayor of Anusic, only then did it work out to solve the problem of Meggle and the jobs, and this could have been for sugar candies, and you did not respond to sugar candies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46921	Wait a minute, don't leave, you have two replicas. The first replica was asked for by Mrs. Devereaux. Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46922	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues, AZTN as a public body should be independent. However, the Competition Protection Council manages the work of the Agency and members of the council and presidents, in fact, appoints HS on a proposal, thus ruling. Do you think they can be independent, given that they actually depend on the ruling?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46923	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46924	Thank you for asking, Agent Nadj. Well, I definitely don't think they can be independent because they come from a circle of rulings and taking their positions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46925	Mr. Price.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46926	Dear fellow Members, would you please explain to me a little bit more why you feel that the issue of the deadline for the ransom bloc has not been settled and what specific proposals have you made on this issue?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46927	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46928	We asked for a deadline to be defined. What, all the meaning of the provisions should be defined by law, and if it will be complemented in the way the ministry describes it, then it should be introduced into the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46929	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. There's a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46930	Injury. 283th Honorable representative of us... calls or insults. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I really don't know if you started it, uh, that initiative, but you're so active in your SDP organization in Osijek that it's here, right now, you can't agree on a list right now and that it practically fell apart there in Osijek, so I don't know, uh, maybe, maybe you could suggest a solution to the sugarcane.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46931	Thank you very much. Thank you. You probably meant 238, not 283, right? But no matter what, 238, or 283. Here you are, too, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46932	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure Shašina, 238 [[/Intruder: Mrs. Never mind.]] Yeah, because the MP didn't stick to the subject, and as far as the Osijek SDP is concerned, don't let him worry, but first you clean up the trash in your backyard, and then you look into someone else's. [[238, what?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46933	Okay. I gave Mr. Shashin a warning, and I have to give you a warning because you had no reason to intervene because it's been a warning for days, right? Okay. Let's go to the finals now. She's the first one. Sandra Bencic in front of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46934	I thank you, Chairman. So, first of all, I wanted to say something about what a lot of people here have been saying, which is so we can't, by law, solve all the issues that bother our farmers and those who put these products on the market. Right, yeah, one law can't, but we have a continuous dotted approach to changes or interventions in a particular system. So if we really wanted from, to protect our producers and their position on the market, from the conditions of their work, the delivery of the final position on the market, then we would have access to one block within three weeks, a month, a month and a half, we would have one by one, a whole set of laws that regulate that issue. From the Law on Agriculture, from laws and regulations that regulate product quality issues and control over the quality of products for placing on the market, the issue of inspections and, of course, the issue of unfair commercial practices. If they did so, if they had such a concentrated and comprehensive approach, then perhaps those solutions would indeed be such as to improve the position of our manufacturers within a certain time limit. If this were to be followed by a debate on the Strategy for the Development of Agriculture or the way we will use the National Recovery and Resistance Plan to achieve these objectives, yes, then we would have a serious legislative activity. Then we would act here as a legislative lever for what is strategically meant to be achieved in agriculture. This is how we stick one by one, and very often it happens to us that we have to change the laws often because we have made changes in one, then we see that it does not go with something that is written in the law of the other or in the third, or that other regulations do not follow and that is a bad way of legislative activity. That's the first one. Secondly, I wanted to say that what's being pointed out here is that there are some interventions that don't concern the law itself, so networking the manufacturer, I think I enjoy listening to it. It's recently... fruit and vegetable buying centers, I've been saying that for 15 years and it's come to the Parliament, so I think I'm thrilled, but people, 15 years, 15 years. So for the networking of manufacturers, the first money from the EU came through the SAPARD programme in 2005, then we had since 2007 on, I'm talking about years of programming for IPA, then we had the first package of structural 2013 and 2014 and then the next package of 2014-2020 and in 2021 we are talking happily that in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan we will put the projects of the Centre for the Buying of Fruit and Vegetables to our producers, here we are, right now just, giving finally the infrastructure that improves their position on the market and which is needed to overcome this subtlety and that they do not have the quantities that we could place. I mean, it's embarrassing for me, but I think those who work here for 20 years and participate in the fact that they should be even more involved. We often buy Europeans... and repeat them here as if here's some big innovation. I hear short supply chains also make me a little bit uncomfortable because it's like now it's some innovative concept that came from Brussels, not something that's the basic logic of every local development, every country in the world. Why did I mention national parks? National parks in each of our regions could have been the driver of both local and regional development of agricultural production and marketing. When we were working on this, therefore, the first regional operational plans, we were not yet in the EU, we still didn't have to respect that the sellers are equal on the market and that the goods are equal on the market no matter where the country comes from, then we could have started it and then if we entered the EU we would have built stronger farmers built infrastructure. Why couldn't that have happened? Only because of corruption, because it was in the interest that Agrokor or Todorovic and his flocks in the government placed their products in national parks because they were golden whom they were today.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46935	Thank you very much. Now it's the SDP and Mrs. Martina Grmat Kizivat's Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46936	Thank you, Vice President. In conclusion, on behalf of the SDP club, I'm going to do a few things again. Unfair commercial practices are not protected by this law by small and medium-sized farmers, small and medium-sized producers. Once again, I will point out that not everyone has a turnover of 15 million kuna and cannot be covered by this law. This is unfortunate because in the spirit of the European Green Plan, they should be a priority. The European Green Plan is something I keep mentioning, but there are still no letters or speeches from the ruling ones. And that's a huge problem for us because our small and medium-sized farmers should be important and should be the first to be protected. And then we have a situation that they can still fall under influence, under blackmail and by buyers and buyers, and their problem has not been solved by this law either. I have to mention something else that's important not to accidentally go under the radar, we mentioned it in the first reading of the law, which is that the Competition Protection Agency will hire six new employees and not only to hire them but also to secure a million and 500 thousand kuna in the budget. It would be all right if the results of that agency did not show other things, and that is, if we consider that in 2019. of 36 administrative procedures solved 7, to 8 employees, means neither the whole case per employee per year. Is the additional 6 employees perhaps the solution to doing something concrete? That's what's important because we think that at the time we live, it's at least unacceptable to hire, or not to say, to prey on six new people. You may have been able to withdraw from the ministry as proposed by colleague Nadj or colleague Mrak Taritash from the people who already have knowledge and experience, so perhaps the effectiveness of the agency would have achieved some results. I will also remind you once more of the deadlines, that it is evident that we have broken the deadline to comply with the directive. We may not get a sentence, but until when will Croatia be in a frenzy and not be able to do so, and you had two years to comply with the EU directive, until when will Croatia be blasted, until when will we break the deadlines? About our national laws not to even tell you. I'm going to ask you one more time to still show that impact assessment. I've had the whole debate and the last one and I've been looking for this one. Show the impact assessment because you are bound by law in Article. 34th you'll do it in 2020. Today is the end of the 4th month 2021. We haven't seen that assessment. You say you have it, then you don't have a problem showing it to us. On the other hand, I said it was binding on you even on the Rules of Procedure of HS, Art. 174, you are even obliged to deliver or simply agree on whether you will publish it on the web pages as stated in the final draft of the law. Either publish or just show us so we know what's been done because this way we have new amendments and additions to the law, and we don't even know what's in the impact assessment if you've done it at all. And all I'm saying is to tell you to start respecting what you yourself have prescribed. You yourself have prescribed that you will do so. And then you can't expect us Parliamentarians to believe that these amendments and amendments to the law are going to change anything if you're late again with the deadlines, you don't show what you've committed by law. But it's no problem that we may not trust you because I can't trust you either, our farmers. How will they believe you if you are not able to do what you say. I ask you once again because of our farmers start doing your job precisely and in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46937	Thank you, too. And now, in the end, the Minister of Agriculture, Mrs. Marija Vuckovic, will have the final word on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46938	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs, I will try to look at in accordance with the order of exposure to any observations made today at the presentation of the final draft of the law. First of all, related to data on the decline in production that are often repeated here. They are completely incorrect, agricultural production fell from 2008 to 2015 according to data from the Ministry of Agriculture's deep diagnostics confirmed by the European Commission on average by more than 5%. In the period from 2016 to 2021, the average growth was 2.8%, with a second assessment by the State Statistics Office in the last 3 years of 5.1, 3.9, 7%. Anyone who repeats it further, if he's heard these words by my court deliberately lie, but I will again be polite and I will speak with knowledge. Regarding the comments on the sale of everything to foreigners, about whether excessive imports are our imports we can reduce the non-illegal restrictions on the market although there is much more we can do legally than strengthen our production in order to be sufficient for Croatians, also competitive for Croatians, at appropriate prices for Croats and to grow in exports. And cheerful data in 2020, even from the first 3 months of '21. the year on the reduction of imports, on the increase in exports, and that should be said fairly, we cannot be quite satisfied with the structure of this, the structure and the balance sheet. Regarding the allegations of late regulation, lack of strategy, etc., this means this Ministry of Agriculture, in addition to facing a number of needs of rapid reactions, and we never had them again in 2020, only market measures we had 15 with the largest increase, for all the laws that the Law on Official Controls and the Law on Veterinary and Food Law should be in line with many, with many remarks and doubts that all countries have in, almost all countries in the EU. We don't have any of these law enforcement issues, and I would also like to say that all these areas are legally and fully covered by current regulations. AZTN employees for new 6 we have provided funding, we cannot transfer employees of the Ministry of Agriculture, because AZTN employees must have special conditions. Similarly, as regards the assessment of the implementation, the assessment that they are set up by the rulings, I think that this assessment is completely unfounded, that it offends their work, their knowledge, their judicial examinations, their legal experience and all that, all the respect these employees have earned, has shown the implementation of this law for the last 2 years, given the dozens of procedures that have been initiated, given the timely solutions in the short time, and since their solutions are likely to be against which all the disputes have been confirmed in the courts so far for which the court's solution has been reached, confirm that they are working hard, committed and professionally, and whoever does not see it is likely to do anything professional. Reports, the department's impact assessment of the regulations were made compensation, within the legal time limit, were in electronic consultation, I was now able to open them at electronic counselling. If we need to re-publish them in other places, too, there's no problem. Whether they should be upgraded and we are prepared, but it is completely incorrect that they are not made and that they are not available today. It was not in this law, it was said here only on compliance with EU rules in this case with the directive adopted. So we've also highlighted in the opening statement and you can find it in every law that I follow in this vault. It is precisely defined as the part relating to compliance with the regulation, which is the part that we prescribe of national interest and which we prescribe in accordance with our national needs without being required by the Directive. And today it's said in the opening speech and as far as I know, all the regulations are done that way. It is also not true that we never respect objections or requests of opposition or views. I have to say here is not the representative Dark Taritash, but I remember personally in a few discussions that I had and as the secretary of state after the first reading that we have just appreciated her remarks and what is quality and what is good, we are trying to reasonably read. And from that day on, I said a sentence, a word taken into consideration because sometimes it means that, and so in electronic counselling, it's common to look even more closely, that I feel the need to look at even more closely at such an observation. So, as far as trade chains are concerned, I wouldn't call them here individually, those who are punished are legally punished, it also confirms the court, and we all need them in the food supply chain because we're not going to come out here and open the shops ourselves, and so neither of us, and the regulation is meant to protect those weakest in that chain, these are producers, and many of them have said that the law has made some shifts most in the work concerning the provision of liquidity and the acceleration of payments and they have objections to some other objectives of the law. As for the association, in 2016, we had three producer organisations, we have 20 today, we had 17 last year, we can't be satisfied with just the number because they're not sufficiently marketable, and with what we've established, so we've changed the rules, so we think we should get support for the rural development programme, that producer organisations should be founded on a profit basis and should have a goal of better marketing, and I will point out when we talk about both producer organisations and warehouses and refrigerators, that they could be financed through a measure of the 4th rural development programme, that the producers' organisations have received additional points, but also with this sub-component under the National Resistance and recovery plan, we want to invest in such association, marking and building infrastructure with an even greater intensity of support. So it's not a start, it's an upgrade. The lack of a irrigation system has been mentioned, over the past few years, from the rural development programme, 17 irrigation projects have been funded through which farmers should be taken over and we will motivate them with support and under measure 4, and we are now doing that, 7,000 ha and will continue to work in the next programming period. Draging products due to malfunctioning from shelves you can often encounter not only on the Croatian Agency for Agriculture and Food but also on the pages of the Ministry of Agriculture, the system... says only one thing, that we are becoming more transparent, more open, that the system is fully functioning and I am happy to say and we have analyzed the structure of the products that have been withdrawn, that Croatian products are very rarely withdrawn, in very small percentages and can only praise the efforts of Croatian producers and call for Croatian products to be bought to a greater extent. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The need to discuss the strategy in the Croatian Parliament is mentioned here, so I will say that the draft amendments to the Agriculture Act propose exactly the provisions of the Ministry of Agriculture which will allow this most important act of strategic planning to be presented in the Assembly until now. As for the food bank, it exists and the banks, forgive me, the bank of genetic resources exists, the food bank and food waste reduction is also part of the National Resistance and Recovery Programme, this ministry has clearly distinguished what is part of the future VFO and what reform activities that are not financed, at least not currently within the VFO, are moving and we have therefore proposed them for the National Resistance and Recovery Plan. Komasation, further investment in smart agricultural digitisation, reduction of food waste, the equipment of intermediaries and the construction of refrigerators according to a special model with a larger share of co-financing, where to understand immediately, there are refrigerators in Croatia that are not used, for this project to be successful, it should have a real producer organization, brand it, run the process from the beginning to the end and with... investment activities, then it has a reform character and so now we try to do it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I understand the proposal relating to producer prices or market prices. Once again, we will analyse these proposals because they certainly have their own positive sides. There are two doubts, one question with legal compliance, with compliance with the acquis and the other is whether such proposals harm those who invest in raising their productivity and competitiveness because, namely, the technical efficiency of Croatian agriculture at the level of 0.3, the technical... What's he saying? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That, on average, in the EU, this level of production is achieved by those who invest 70% less input. Therefore, they do not produce each equally efficiently or at the same producer price. We must find a balance not to demote the debates and activities that, according to us, according to this administration, is the first goal of Croatian agriculture and the prerequisite for everything else. I said the strategy, import I said, statistics, of course it doesn't mean that it will be a long-term trend, we should have additional efforts, but our statistics are completely different from those of individual parliamentary representatives. And it certainly is good to see other countries' practices as suggested here. As far as protection is concerned, how to protect domestic production, I think it's done with its strength of productivity, with measures in investments that we are just witnessing these days and related to reproductive centres and plastics and to increase investment for processing that was embarrassingly low in this programming period, embarrassingly low... etc. That's how you create higher added value. It has been said that this law does not know who the merchants are and who the buyers are, I think it's the remark of a representative named Bauk. She was, of course, accompanied once by a handsome and linguistic lock but it's completely incorrect. The buyer is always the one who buys. If we have the manufacturers, the buyer, the buyer is the buyer, if we have the buyer and the merchant, his buyer is a trader and that's why in this part he's asked for a directive to comply with those terms. With regard to the need for additional emphasis other than freezers, silos and warehouses, I will point out for example. Co-operation with potato producers, in the past year in the half-days facing a major problem, could no longer be used by a particular protective agent. In a year and a half, a new operation was launched and a new limited competition in the rural development programme, we established three producer organisations which are d.o.o. Potato manufacturers and it was the greatest effort, they managed to make the whole project technical documentation, and after a year and a half we already sign contracts, we will have warehouses, modern storage and ventilation facilities, we have 3 real manufacturers organisations that are d.o.o. and we will have a healthy product for Croatian consumers or for export. So we're going to continue and we're going to be tied to the floor warehouses, and we're already starting to prepare this operation. Someone mentioned that policy collection practice is no longer an unfair commercial practice, which is considered harmful. I can understand the remark, but in that part we have complied with the directive, it is practically declared according to this proposal now so-called. With grey practice. In principle, it is an unfair commercial practice, but in addition to a prior agreement which has not been coerced and which is entered in the form for which there is documentation falls within the so-called ‘. grey practices that are allowed in that case. As for our fruit and vegetables on the shelves, I am certainly pleased to point out that the first producers, the associated producers who have applied for a quality label from the fruit and vegetable sector. We need to increase our production, that's, that's the first condition to make it more on the shelves and make it more accessible. It's not enough, and we're doing it now and we're also publishing a competition, so I'm going to look at an additional question, which is about restructuring and setting up new permanent plantations, but only for those producers that are going to get watering equipment or equipment against fighting or anti-frost equipment. We don't have to wait for new programming... We've already changed everything into a rural development program in the past, in the past. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have also established animal welfare, we have established financial instruments and these Croatian farmers who need help and who need protection are not as powerless as they used to think here. They are, for example, in the use of financial instruments currently the first in the EU, and we have only established them in 2018, which says how much cheap loans and interest subsidies were missing, but here they are best used in relation to the location of other European countries. It is completely incorrect and therefore, of course, we have evidence that, I will say on behalf of Mayor Anusic, and in my personal name and on behalf of the Prime Minister, that here in the case of the problem "Meggle" and the shut-down, the potential shut-down of production was reacted only after the open letter of the SDP. Of course not. If we need evidence for such a thing, we can, uh, we can, of course, always bear it, so we can see who's telling the truth and who's not telling the truth. As far as sugar is concerned, this Ministry of Agriculture and the Croatian government have been in the last 3rd year. Do everything you can to make sugar tail production completely disappears, and this is the first prerequisite for sugars from Croatian fields. Unfortunately, someone programmed the ugar to be more profitable than sugar tail, and now we're doing all that to change, and we're going to work to preserve biodiversity and implement environmental measures, but not in a way to demotize production. If you ask me why you haven't done this before, you can't program it at 7 years, which we can fix earlier, especially in part of the rural area, and now that period for which we are all responsible for both direct payments and organic agriculture and all that we are doing now, action plans, recycling, so by 1.1 everything will be presented. And finally about the final presentation, the remark relating to the 15 million customer restriction is completely unclear to me or I hope that the representative who presented it understands that she does not refer to producers, she refers only to customers, which I must say in the end. You have to if, to me, you need to read this law one more time, we will, of course, implement all the amendments and proposals submitted and try to answer them wisely and thank you again, so I believe that we will implement a good regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46939	Thank you. If you don't have to come back later, please stay here, but first we have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Devereaux. Vesna Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46940	Thank you. He's been injured. 238, insulting the MPs. So the minister said that whoever doesn't see the expertise of her employees probably never did anything professional in life. Let's say, I'm the last one after 40 years. I worked in the public administration at the Department of Administration, so when we got your draft bill, that was a hell of a thing. It means a lot of objections to the drafts of your proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46941	Thank you very much, thank you, thank you. It was a replica, you know, otherwise everyone should feel offended, yeah. It was a replica. I have to give you a warning. That's a second one, but we're good at the end anyway. Mrs. Devereaux. Sneezy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46942	Thank you, Vice President. In 238, when the minister said she would answer all the questions politely, I expected her to answer my question when she would deliver the impact assessment, and on the other hand, she would answer politely why we were late again. And as for the Minister of Sugar, it's something I can't personally regret. You said you did everything, so please don't do anything anymore because the result of your work is two sugars out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46943	It was a replica, you know better than me, and it's a warning, and now we've got replicas, ma'am. It's a ben.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46944	Thank you. I wanted to ask you, so for one piece of information that's very hard to come by, or I've been trying to get it for a few years, but the bodies themselves say they don't have it. So I got information that the Green Public Procurement Plan is going to the government, I think it's supposed to be this week, introducing green public procurement into the central at least central procurement system regarding food and drink. In order to actually secure the local market, it is terribly important that public contracting authorities start using green public procurement in the area of food and drink because this is how we strengthen local producers. However, please give me an answer, you probably have this information because in order to plan this type of procurement we need to know what the total amount of all our CPV public procurement companies that bond with food and drink is within a year? I say, so these data should be publicly available so that local self-government and regional units can actually plan short supply chains through a public procurement system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46945	Time, thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46946	The last Public Procurement Act provides for short supply chains to be signed, i.e. it appears to be an article. 284 or 285, but don't mind if I say blood count, please. We've been doing one research, and I have to say it quite openly, on the incentive that research came from HS, and I'm going to say it further from the opposition, about the question, and we've provided information based on our analysis and research as to how much about the public contractors used the full member, and how much in part. At this point I can't answer your question about when they'll be sure to be at the government's conclusion, because the Ministry of Agriculture is not in charge of the proposal. However, we will certainly participate if needed in further analysis and reporting In order to complete the data and in place the question is how many.../Conversation disabled./... [[Intruder Radin: Time, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46947	Thank you very much. Mrs. Bencic, I haven't noticed any injuries to the rules of procedure, but I suppose you have. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46948	I'm not really here, but I wanted to explain, and I'm willing to risk a warning. I just wanted to say that I was interested in the total figure of how much we spend on food and drink through the public procurement system in Croatia, that's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46949	I have to interrupt and give a warning, but I don't think that's how it's done. Mr. Shimičević's replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46950	I thank the vice president of HS. Your Honors Minister. Now, there have been some injuries to the Rules of Procedure, and during the debate, it was actually more difficult for a rotten grandmother to go through the day, which was not at all correct to the people who were working on this, but no one raised the breach of the Rules of Procedure and reprimanded those who said it. What I'm trying to tell you is, you're here, working and clearly for that are criticism. You can imagine how it would have been if you hadn't done what you would have talked about then and instead of all of us making some synergy and saying let's do it if we hadn't moved forward so far to make it better for all of us, to protect our peasants, we here say if someone did something or didn't 20 years ago when you weren't even, I don't know if you were...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46951	Thank you very much. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46952	I can only confirm that we will, of course, consider every remark that has come and that we will also consider amendments and try to pass a regulation that will further introduce the necessary protection to Croatian producers, which is precisely what you have been told many times today that this law will certainly not remove all problems or structurally transform Croatian agriculture, but that it can further protect them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46953	Thank you very much. We don't have any more replicas, no more injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you, Madam Minister. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. And I'm announcing an epidemic break until 14 o'clock and 10 minutes. It's at 13:56 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14:12 HOURS]] The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172 in conjunction with Article 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and Education, Science and Culture. Is Mr Tomislav Paljak here to take the floor and introduce us to this bill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46982	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, distinguished MPs, as you have heard before you, is the Final Proposal for the Law amending the Law on Educational Inspection, and I would first of all like to thank you for the constructive debate during the first reading as well as for the proposals and opinions presented. The amendments in question relate to Article 2 of the Law on Educational Inspection, Article 13 and Article 16 which regulates the handling of inspectors with the representations of citizens and legal persons relating to the part of the Educational Inspection and more precisely determines the handling of data from inspection procedures in accordance with the data protection regulations. These changes are in some way urgent interventions to respond as soon as possible to the most prominent needs of all participants in the educational process, especially educational workers. In fact, educators who perform public service are aware that their work is subject to formal and professional pedagogical supervision, but for the directors and teachers, official actions that have been initiated by so-called ‘. anonymouss. Subject changes have been made to protect all citizens from arbitrary or unfounded applications. As a result of the problem of anonymous submissions, the proposed law makes it clear that the concept is considered to contain the applicant’s name and last name, home address, contact information, or legal person’s name, seat and signature. This emphasises the need for an applicant to be identified by an educational inspection in order to exercise the right resulting from the law. Furthermore, the amendments in question more clearly establish the obligation to keep inspection or other official secrets and prescribes how the documentation and information relating to the inspection procedure is handled in this respect and to specify the handling of the data on the applicant of the performance. I note that, in accordance with the comments in the discussion in the text relating to the reasons of Article 1 of the final proposal for a law, the formulation of an unknown applicant has been left out, but I point out that the text of the law proposal which passed the first reading in the Croatian Parliament does not make any difference in the normative part. In fact, the Ministry of Science and Education considered and analysed the proposals and opinions of the day in the first reading, and we will explain why individual amendments could not be accepted. We must once again stress that the comments you have made on the proposed amendments mainly referred to cases concerning complaints about the professional teaching work of teachers and teachers, which is not the jurisdiction of the educational inspection and cannot be regulated by this law. The proposal relating to the power signature in the application was considered when the applicant is a natural person who is not accepted because the intensity of such a legislative proposal was the identification of the applicant, however, not the additional placing of administrative obstacles to the submission of the performances. In addition, submission of submissions to the educational inspection was made possible through the access point e-submission at the Ministry of Science and Education sites using the national identification and authentication system. The right and natural persons are also allowed to submit submissions by e-mail via the access point, the email address of the office&mzo.hr, noting that the answers will be delivered in the same way, so by electronic means, unless the ministry estimates that the delivery in this way is not appropriate, in these cases delivery will be carried out in another appropriate manner as is the case. In simple mail. We are also unable to accept a proposal relating to the payment of the application fee which would not be returned in the case of false and unproven applications. This legislative proposal provides for a second way to reduce the occurrence of false and unproven applications, which is an obligation to identify the applicant himself. Then, no proposal relating to non-registration of consequences in the event of a breach of the obligation to store personal and other confidential data which the educational inspector learns in the performance of his duties is already regulated by the regulations governing the office and the protection and confidentiality of the data, and no further need is required. The authorities and responsibilities of the officials of the proceedings were prescribed, and certain comments related to informal data exchange within the school or local environment. The application relating to the regulation of deadlines for reply to the submission was not accepted because the same regulation was made by the General Administration Act. Other opinions, proposals and objections to the draft law in the debate at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament were not directly related to the subject of the draft law and could not be particularly obvious about them, which does not mean that they have not been discussed. Finally, as the minister pointed out at the first reading, I would like to point out once again that given the current situation in the area of education and education, there is a need for more systematic amendments and additions, i.e. a full amendment to the Law on Educational Inspection, which will be in line with the applicable laws and regulations. However, for this overall change, it is necessary, of course, to adopt new and amended implementing rules in this area of education and education, which will then be accessible to the adoption of a new Law on Educational Inspection which will be more effective, clearer and helpful for all participants in the activities of education and education. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46983	Thank you. Stay, you have three replicas. The first replica was asked for by Mrs. Devereaux. Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46984	Thank you very much. Your Honorable Secretary of State, I will refer to that part of your opening statement, which speaks of the proposed law as a law that actually falls within the domain of emergency interventions. In this regard, the proposed law provides that the concept is considered to contain information about the applicant, which will be achieved that the applicant of the play is, in fact, identified according to the educational inspection, and thus will indeed avoid the so far so-called so-called so-called “. ” Anonymouss, and I think it's important and I really welcome this urgent intervention in the existing law, although I think it is necessary and more fully accessible to the full amendment of the law. Similarly, what I find quite important is the determination of the obligation to keep inspection or official secrets and the regulation of how the documentation is actually handled, which will indeed be achieved. the legal justification of handling inspection surveillance data, so I support this and I believe... [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, weather.]] these changes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46985	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46986	Well, of course, that was exactly the intensity of changing these legal regulations, so we've been focusing here and focusing on only two articles that are most powerful in this case and that will immediately be applicable and will immediately enter our system, because here, so here, with a five-year follow-up, we actually saw that this is really the amount of anonymous, so on. anonymous applications stifled the entire system and simply disabled one more proactive activity of the educational inspection and we are aware, of course, that, with all that has been carried out during the debate, that it will definitely need to respect all of this in the making of a whole law that will, of course, be in preparation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46987	Thank you very much. Mr. Shimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46988	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, here's an anonymous application that made a mess in the collective, they go into history, which I'm very glad because actually after every anonymous application that came to school, there'd be a mess in the classroom and nothing changed. And this is certainly commendable for 60 and how many educators there are but I speak exclusively of those who are worthy, diligent and do their job, educate and raise young generations. I would already like to give you the following task here, which is that this first step is that we must make a comprehensive change of laws and inspections and the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools so that we can get a school that will be a positive atmosphere and where there will indeed be synergy with the goal of raise and educate young generations. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46989	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46990	Here, thank you very much, Your Honor. You're absolutely right, we're aware of that, of course, the law has been experiencing a lot more than 10 changes and changes, and he's crying out for the whole document, which will, of course, include what you've been talking about, and I'm also personally looking forward to helping with these changes to reduce that pressure on colleagues and colleagues in schools, and also fellow directors so that there's really no longer this amount of bickering that we've witnessed lately, more current and that we can simply all work together and prepare ourselves according to that legislative plan and for these changes that you've talked about in the next period anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46991	Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46992	My dear secretary, I am pleased that you have accepted the facts that we presented at the last debate and that you have noticed that we need to amend some more education-related laws, which is a big plus, and I hope that we will achieve great success here. And what actually confused me a little bit is that you actually refused this proposal to charge taxes and, if it was important or incorrect, that this tax return. It confuses me for two reasons. The first reason is that you have actually rejected a direct proposal to in some way be additionally full of the budget and the second reason is that you have not accepted that people who actually spend the time of civil servants, who spend the time of inspection, are being punished additionally. Why is that?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46993	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46994	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Yes, we have also considered this possibility, there are some examples that solve this, but at this point we feel that tax as such is not necessary but that the fact that the applicant of the submission will have to be identified in the way we assumed in the amendments to this law, is sufficient to reduce such pressure and that it will actually contribute to the resolution of this problem in which we have discussed it. And about the potential of these budget fillings and these proposals, I don't know how much that would contribute, but I'm still going to let someone maybe an expert evaluate it, possibly, but at this point we're really not going to charge, but you're going to have to identify yourself with your personal data.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46995	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas for now. And now does the committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? Yeah. Who? And Pavić, Mr. Pavić, is in violation of his rules of procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46996	Your Honor, Secretary of State. It's just that I personally know a few people who are professional complainants, they sign without a problem, they report to every competition that's at school, whether for a lecturer, whether for a principal, whether for a professional service, and they sign no problems. The inspection must do something about it,.../Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46997	Mr. Pavic, do you want to give yourself a warning or should I give you a warning? He can do it himself. He can do it. Mr. Pavic's warning. Here you are on behalf of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46998	Thank you very much. Your colleague Miletic is forgiven. Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the HS, the esteemed Secretary of State with an associate. Therefore, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture considered the final proposal of the Law amending the Law on Educational Inspection at its 14th session held this morning, of course, in accordance with Article. The 97th Rules of Procedure of the HS in the capacity of the home working body. In his opening statement, the applicant's representative pointed out that the proposed law stipulates that the provision considers it to contain all the information on the applicant's name, last name, home addresses, contact details, etc. that is, in the case of a legal person, the name, seat and signature of an authorised person, which, of course, wishes to highlight the need for the applicant to identify himself according to the educational inspection of the sea and to identify his data in order to exercise the right resulting from this law. And so it is already said, but I will repeat, the amendments in question will more clearly identify the obligation to keep inspection or other official secrets and to prescribe in this respect how the documentation and data relating to the inspection procedure is handled and, of course, to specify the handling of the data on the applicant of the concept, which will indeed achieve a legal justification for the handling and the inspection data, and also determine the rights and interests of the applicant of the representation. In addition, it was pointed out that, compared to the text of the law proposal which passed the first reading, this final draft of the law contained no difference in the normative section and during the debate, all the members of the Committee unanimously supported the adoption of the final proposal for this law. However, an idea, an initiative, namely with the aim of improving the education and education system in the Republic of Croatia, has been crystallised in the debate, has highlighted the proposal to amend the Law on Professional Pedagogical Control in a similar way. In fact, the Law on Professional Pedagogical Control has not been changed since 1997, and we are also aware of the fact that in practice we often have different objections, primarily parents, to the work of teachers themselves, and as Mr. Secretary of State pointed out therefore the professional teaching work of teachers, teachers, teachers, teachers is not the subject of this law. And so here is the Committee on Education, Science and Culture once again one position taken to point out, and therefore I use the opportunity to mention to the Secretary of State this proposal and the Committee's initiative that, at some point, in a similar way, changes, ways of amending and supplementing the Law on Professional Pedagogical Control to adapt this law to the existing practice that we have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u46999	Thank you very much. It's one of those laws where fines are paid in stamps or dinars. You know there are laws like that. Okay. I am opening the debate and is the first Mr. Marin Miletic to speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Mosto. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u47000	Dear Vice-President of HS Mr Furio Radin, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, respected colleagues, colleagues, dearly respected teachers. Mr. Secretary of State, if you'll excuse me at the beginning that I might be a little unusual in my speech, I'd like you to tell Mr. Secretary that this is some school exam, I think you'd have to go to the correctional and that's the minister and the whole team who prepared this. I'll try to make an argument. Today we received very specific information from colleague Selak Rasdic about how this pandemic affected our children. They've been deprived of normal school, I can't go to my sports and other activities for over a year, they're isolated from their schoolmates and friends. Our kids live in a virtually virtual balloon, and their lives take place in front of TVs, on NET and social networks. Let's see what the kids got. Statistics and data are fragrant and inexorable. The increase in child pornography by 30%, the increase in child harm crimes has increased even more and in some counties is over 100%. If this crisis taught us anything then we all became aware of the school's values and not just for the children, I would say for the parents. School is an ideal environment for children in which our kids grow up, grow up, grow up, our schools are mostly safe havens for children, but it doesn't come by itself. We can also build state-of-the-art schools, we can equip classrooms with state-of-the-art equipment, state-of-the-art systems, smart records, but nothing, nothing can replace anything, can't replace a single teacher. And what is the position of our teachers? What is the position of our teachers, Professor? I have already spoken countless times in this honorable home in the Croatian Parliament. The teachers became like a boxing bag. Anyone who wakes up to his left leg in the morning looking for a place to search for their frustrations can simply report a teacher or professor to an inspection. Often failure or excessive parenting ambitions break over the back of our teachers. Infrequently, disagreements or conflicts within the Chamber are resolved through educational inspection. And these are all the reasons why teachers and teachers are increasingly applying. Respect, Mr. Bukarica. The ministry has promised amendments to the law to address the problem, to protect our teachers from chicane reports and harassment through inspection. I dare say, there were mountains of promise to the teachers, the hills were shaking, but nowhere is there a tiny mouse, a little mouse. The slightest shift has not occurred and serial applicants will continue to be protected, not teachers. They will continue to act on completely anonymous reports, so reports that are often such that they just want to make the teachers' lives worse by hiding in the comfort of their anonymity. You'll still have frustrated heroes of living rooms that are frustrated with themselves by 12 o'clock, and after noon, they hate the whole universe that surrounds them, they always have someone else to blame. We all know people like that, right, it's always someone else's fault, and then they'll report neatly to our teachers' anonymous applications. Worst of all, this law is hypocritical. You should say that. It's misleading, and that's what you have to say. He only handles the treatment of unanonymous reports signed, but he doesn't reject the anonymous ones either. And what's being arranged is mostly practice, and not only in the educational inspection, but also in the administration, right, sanitary or any other inspection. What bothers me the most is the attempt to trick teachers who have been told that they will be protected from anonymous reports and whines. It was promised to them here from this place, from this pay phone, the minister was here talking, I was sitting here in the 4th row following him closely. We'll protect you, dear teachers, you're worth it to us, it's worth our education. And that, the gibberish. You have at least this symbolically to show how much you care about education, how much you care about teachers. And that's where we go back to what I started, which is that our schools must be a haven for children, a haven, an oasis where kids will grow up, grow up, mature in every way. And that job can only be done by well-educated and motivated Croatian teachers. There's no substitute. I can't take over this job robots or artificial intelligence with all the reach. You can't bring in some new teachers from the countries of the Far East overnight. Education is a system, each school is a system that has been hardwired, built and built for decades, improved and created. For 14 years I worked in High School on Sušak, so decades, decades, decades, decades of hard work to know which school has certain quality and why it is so and why the kids even want to enroll it. Schools should be safe for our teachers, too, right? Croatian teachers expect much more, they expect a complete solution and legislation, not a few populist points. On this bill, the secretary of state will not submit any amendments because it is irreparable and unconstitutional. Syndicates, I've been talking to them, with these people, at the end of 16 years I worked in the system, two years in primary school, 14 years in high school. Unions all the employees in the school system expected a solution, not some populism. Teachers expect to protect them, to protect them from violent reporting, to protect them from anonymous harassment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u47001	Mr. Damir Bakic, will speak on behalf of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u47002	Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues, as well as in my first reading, I will begin with the same message. We believe that the system of anonymous applications has been counterproductive and therefore this change is positive and welcome. And as I mentioned in the first reading, the proposed law will be supported. But I'm gonna do this again. The work of the educational inspection is mainly about harmonising the normative functioning of the school, controlling the compliance of school activities with laws, rules, plans and curricula. The educational process, however, is much more and therefore the role of the inspection is discriminatory because it assesses only the form, and is not competent for professional and pedagogical development and therefore, too, the position of educational inspectors is paradoxical because they control normative compliance, and they are not lawyers, while teachers or professional associates are also not, and long ago, if they were ever. But we know all that, and we knew all that before the law was passed. On the other hand, that the education system was normally developed and that it was creative and that it was autonomous, educational inspection should not even act on the application unless the following steps were met, which I was then saying, or if the following steps were not crossed. First and most important, regular communication of student-parent-teacher-sub-teacher – professional-pedagogical service. Second, the teaching council, third ethical commission, fourth, if it is a work dispute, union or trade unions and fifth, school board. Because if any problem that arises were to pass all these instances, it would certainly find a better and more comprehensive solution than a formal finding of an educational inspection. And in that sense, key keys to progress are in the hands of directors, teachers, parents and, of course, founders. And finally, I would like to repeat the proposal and, in fact, I would like to join my colleague Maria Lugaric's proposal from this morning's session of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. It would therefore be valid in the same debt and in line with real needs and in order to improve the autonomy of teachers and schools as a whole to change and modernise the role and work of expert-pedagogical supervision through amendments to the relevant law. Thank you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u47003	Thank you, too. Mr. Rade Simičević will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u47004	I would like to thank the vice president of HS, the esteemed secretary with the assistant, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives, viewers and viewers. Here, I'm really going to stay here just for an educational inspection, otherwise, when it comes to school, then we can talk about school quite long, broadly, but let's just keep this, educational inspection now. I welcome the Ministry of Science and Education's determined intention to refer offices to anonymous applications that have created great tensions in collectives. An anonymous application has unfortunately been introduced, I don't know by what model, it seems to me to be the role model of those totalitarian regimes and thank God, it's behind us now. Anyone could have filed an anonymous application, including those best professors we have at school, but, well, here's all the luck, it goes back in history. Why? Well, we know from practice that anonymous reports in most cases have been rejected as unfounded, but after an anonymous report, what's the problem, there is a drastic disturbance of relations in the chambers. Although they are called anonymous, whenever an educational inspector or an inspector from school leaves, we all know everything to avoid unwanted situations, they will now come to the attention of only the signed application. But my suggestion is that before the inspector comes out, the principal or director should have an insight into the application and take the first step in solving the problems that occurred at school. This requires more than 60,000 teachers and teachers of primary and secondary schools, it is a clear sign that some members of the educational inspection that have so far been needed to change because examples of good practice have not accepted them as valid. We don't really need detectives at school to know what's going on at school. The school speaks for itself. You're wondering how the school talks? Well, everyone who's been to school, who's been through it, and the ones who's been to school right now, is talking. So we know everything about school, it's just now a question of how we're going to work it out properly. These amendments to the Law, in Art. Article 13 16 It is indeed intended to stop the self-will of individuals, to protect professors and teachers, teachers and teachers, and indeed the provision set out in the paragraph of one of this article is considered to be an application of a complaint or other submission indicating an irregularity, i.e. the situation, failure or conduct contrary to the provisions of the educational inspection section, which shall include the information on the applicant, name and last name, the address of the residence and contact details, i.e. for the legal person, name, seat and signature of the responsible person. If it comes to the performances of Article 1(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, 1 of this Article shall be subject to educational supervision, the inspector shall inform the applicant in writing of the importance. If the applicant again submits an idea which does not contain any new facts, circumstances or evidence in relation to which they have already been identified, the applicant will be informed that it has been followed. Art. 16, he is changing and saying, by conducting inspection supervision, the inspector is obliged to keep personal and other confidential information he has learned in the performance of his duties as an official secret and to act in such a way as not to endanger the law and other regulations laid down a secret. In particular, as from Article 2(2) of this Article, an inspector shall not be obliged to maintain the identity of the applicant of the performance if the applicant expressly permits it to protect his rights and legal interests. The educational inspection is required as an inspection secret to keep documentation and other data and facts in connection with the inspection procedure, and to deal with the same law and other regulations. These are changes completely, these changes are supported by all hardworking and hardworking teachers and teachers whose work is in the system of education and education calls, not professions, not those who are in minority and do not care about collectives or good relations... their self-will ahead of social values and general good students who teach. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, we also have people in schools who don't do good things at certain times. And that's exactly how they used the Institute of Anonymous Application to hide behind their unhappiness, while also disrupting human relations. I see the proposed amendments to the Law on Educational Inspection as strengthening the reasoned reporting of irregularities. So anyone who is a responsible educator, who works, who educates, regardless of who it is, should report irregularities, and thus we will discourage those who give themselves the right to break relations in the collective through anonymous applications. It should not forget that it is not about submissions which point to possible irregularities in the work of the director, which are far ahead of all the anonymous applications, as well as teachers and teachers, and yet they are not in the jurisdiction of the educational inspection but of the agency carrying out professional pedagogical supervision, but is primarily about the protection of pupils, and this problem should be approached with extreme caution and objectiveness. I trust the secretary of state that this is the beginning of a comprehensive work on the quality of the normative functioning of the system where the focus should be on the teaching process or education with the aim of putting students in focus and the acquisition of new skills and knowledge. More important than these changes is to restore the educational component of the school that is lost. The role of educational inspection is to monitor the legality of school institutions, not professional pedagogical supervision, it is quite different, different relationship and different supervision. The Law on Educational Inspection as an implementing regulation is important, but not the only tool for educational inspectors in the realization of that role. The assumption of effective and objective supervision should only be created by clear and unequivocal provisions of the Law on Education and Education in Primary and Secondary Schools, and by a series of accompanying regulations because it is not doubtful how practical application of the law indicates certain shortcomings and the possibility of different interpretations, and it is necessary to amend the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools. Following the above, I will tax-list some of my thoughts here where the ministry should strengthen its role in the appointment and resolution of directors in all school institutions providing funding from the state budget, strengthen the role and responsibility of the pedagogical head of the school of directors when it comes to praises, awards and sanctions, and the implementation of the annual plan and programmes, amendments and additions. 106th Law, ensure the functionality of data verification from criminal records, which is indicated in its reports by the Ombudsman for children, institutionally different positioning of the professional teaching service, the Education and Education Agency should reform and entrust professional pedagogical supervision in school institutions in a more effective manner than ever before, reform the role of the teaching service at school, the school board complemented by members of the Ministry of Science and Education and strengthen the role of founders in school management structures. This is just a few of the indications that refer to the amendment of the Law on Education and Education and Regulations, which would then create the basis for the comprehensive amendments to the Law on Educational Inspection or remove the need for further intervention in this regulation. The regulation of legal norms would also discourage those who aim to create anarchy and disorder in a system of education and education where the primary goal is to teach and acquire knowledge and skills, and to raise young generations in the spirit of civilization and Croatian values. The HDZ Club will support the proposed measures and I hope that this is the beginning of a comprehensive amendment to the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u47005	Mrs. Devereaux. Irena Simunic will speak in front of SDP Representatives' Club
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u47006	Thank you, Mr. Vice President HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate, The SDP representative club will support the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Educational Inspection. The amendments in question relate only to two articles, Art. Article 13 16 which regulates the conduct of inspection with the representations of citizens and legal persons relating to the part-round of the educational inspection, and more precisely determines the handling of submissions from inspection procedures in accordance with the data protection rules. This is the result of long-standing aspirations of teachers and teachers, educational staff, but also very clearly presented in late 2019. on the longest and highest protest and strike conducted by educational workers seeking among other things and the abolition of anonymous applications through this Law on Educational Inspection. This is the fulfillment of one promise after a year and a half, but also the inspection control system and the inspection concept itself should be well audited and improved, and therefore we support the view that this Educational Inspection Act requires more serious changes. These amendments to the law precisely because of the obligation to provide information on the notifier i.e. Disposing of the anonymity of the applicant will be protected by educational inspectors, but also by educational institutions against the good part of unfounded applications. We believe that the system of anonymous applications was counterproductive and produced many abuses. The work of the educational inspection mainly referred to the control of the compliance of school activities with the laws, rules, general acts, curricula and the activities of the educational inspection consisted mainly of the harmonisation of the normative functioning of the school, and the educational process is much more complex and therefore the role of the inspection is questionable. It is important to say, most of the above, that, in addition to these amendments to the Law on Educational Inspection, it is necessary and urgent to amend the Law on Professional Pedagogical Control, which is still in force in 1997, meaning that since then, most of the objections and submissions have not been changed, and that is precisely the problem that is not necessarily necessary in the jurisdiction of the Educational Inspectorate. The education system, like all public systems, has its own hierarchy and I believe that the first step to solving all problems should be the level of school and directors, not to skip those stairs and immediately go to the ministry, to the inspection. In the developed system, inspections should not even begin to act on most applications, and certainly not on reports that are not... on all possibilities of solving problems where the problem is actually created. Such an approach would certainly lead to a more quality solution. There is something else to point out, and this is the problem that only 35 inspectors through four district offices in Zagreb, Split, Osijek, Rijeka who work with about 2,000 applications annually have 2,000 supervised institutions, including primary and secondary schools, pre-school institutions, institutions that conduct education and education, which can be a mere open university, institutions of adult education. It is all actually the jurisdiction of inspection and supervision over 60,000 employees in the system and it is impossible to do quality this sensitive and demanding job with so few people who are also very little paid. The laws are changing, and the problem remains, the deficit of people is a taste of the problem that needs to be highlighted and dealt with urgently. I'm going to repeat this information one more time and remember it well, 60,000 employees in the system on only 35 inspectors. It's disturbing, isn't it? It is also important to say that an inspection cannot do as much as a director can in general for the climate, mode of business, interpersonal relations in a working collective. It's a shame that it gave up the licensing of directors that we would professionalise on our own system. We all agree that the key to quality education system is certainly not in inspections but in ensuring the quality of the overall educational process. I hope that we will see many more legal solutions from this portfolio that will change the team more which on the other hand we have a very constructive talker, and these are our teachers, teachers, teachers who propose changes themselves, and this proposal of the Law on Educational Inspection is also one of their suggestions. I conclude that the SDP club will support amendments to the Law on Educational Inspection with the aim of abolishing anonymous applications, which is a step towards solving one of the many problems that affect all of our educators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u47007	Thank you, too. We move on to individual debates, Mr. Rade Simičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u47008	Thank you, Vice President. I've come to order quickly, so I won't be long, I just really wanted to say that when you look at it from the outside and it works perfectly, so teachers, kids at school, teaching builders who want to learn and those who want to teach them. But we who come from the system actually know what anomalies are and what should change everything. What I advocate is synergy, so without the cooperation of professors, teachers, parents and children, there is no good teaching process and there is no realisation of teaching content. There may also be many times left behind to support the social community, although the social community is working hard, especially in recent times to make normal work possible. What is also important to point out that we at school today have all the necessary technology, teaching technology, and here now this pandemic of the coronary virus has actually shown that we have had the best equipped schools, that we could immediately move to on line teaching and that many countries have more developed than our small Croatia have copied our system. Is that enough? The school will be organised in order, the school will be an atmosphere of affirmative atmosphere of positive vibrations, only when the educational worker, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher gets the right place at school. Unfortunately, we're witnesses, here, I've been working at school for 30 years and more, from the first day I went to school, until recently when I went to school, it's always the same story. Educational workers are not adequately paid for their work, they are often underrated, and they do phenomenal things. If it wasn't for school, if it wasn't for a teacher, it'd be hard for us to bring out such young, smart and responsible people. So we also, a country that has 4 million inhabitants, so just look at the competition, the encounters and the reviews, where our young people achieve phenomenal results, and actually in them, as far as I could hear, when it's calculated, we invested 12 kunas or 15 kunas per student. Also, I don't want to politicize here right now, but I want to say that something has changed, that education workers have recently received those promises that have been paid and I believe that the trend will continue and that simply we in a small country cannot forget the system of education and education. We don't have oil, we don't have gold, we only have young and smart people and our goal is to sell brains and gain new value, and we can't possibly be destructive and do what's wrong with the system. We need to remove everything that burdens both students and parents and professors in order for the system of education to work and for a new value to be obtained there. Clearly, here I want to commend the ministry that will and is willing to accept the challenge, and I believe that, over these few years, it will indeed come to the wallpaper of the Law on Education and Education where there will be no change and the addition of the amendments, so that we will have a comprehensive law on both the Law on Education and Education, as well as on the Educational Inspection, so on the expert-pedagogical aspect, and then we will be able to really say that we have quality normative things and that it is only for people to apply it. Our wealth is our children, we have few and we have to invest as much as possible in them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u47009	Thank you. You have two replicas. Stay. - Mrs. Crescent. Bedekovic, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u47010	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. I will agree with you and with your claim that in fact, these amendments to the law are actually a support to those teachers who experience and carry out primary education, as an invitation, and not only as a profession, and in no way is this law a support to those who do not do good things, do not do good things, and in fact they are in most cases mostly used by the Institute of Anonymous. When you talked about it as improving the education system, you talked about the synergy of all stakeholders, from teachers, teachers, teachers, parents, local communities, etc., and only so can school as an educational institution promote and place an emphasis on its educational function. My question, the unquestioned contribution to the educational function of the school has a professional-pedagogical service at school. What's your opinion, how? A quality professional-pedagogical service can contribute and contribute to the educational function of the school? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u47011	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u47012	Thank you. Thank you, colleagues, and for your comment. Yes, school is a place where a positive atmosphere must be created. The vocational and pedagogical service at school are people who are professional and who should know from the entrance to school, which is said to be, to get out of school, so it's a spiritual movence school, the soul of the school, where a educator, a psychologist should know every child, feel the problems and troubles possibly present with such students because unfortunately we live in the time that we children notice only when it's too late. So we have to do everything we can to have the power of observation because we are professional, that we can record the child, have a conversation, give him support, make him happy, let him know that he is the only one, unrepeated and as such, extremely important in the community.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u47013	- Mrs. Crescent. Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u47014	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, it is certain that today the educational workers do not have the status in society that they once had, unfortunately, and I think that we must all work together as a society to get their status back in some way, that they really are gentlemen teachers, as they used to be called. It is certain that these amendments to the law are good just to avoid these negative connotations that have occurred in collectives because of these anonymous reports that have been unfounded many times, and have buried an educational inspection. Since you're coming from that system, I'm wondering if you think we have enough education inspectors in mind that in my opinion their role should not only be to come and determine the irregularity but also preventive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u47015	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u47016	Thank you, colleagues. Yes, the school is indeed an ambience, it says, you have that folk saying village that has no priests, teachers and doctors, no village. It won't survive that way. So for the first time, every school, if it doesn't have a driving energy, and everyone or at least most of the teachers, it's a call, and it's not an interest, and they love the job that they chose, but the fact is that now the educational worker is underpaid and we have to do everything first, and then eventually make stricter criteria for enrolment in teaching studies because we heard a colleague say that we have 34 or 36 inspectors At 60,000 employees, it's extremely small, and we have to work and work. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] that we always discover the problem before it escalates. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u47017	Thank you, thank you very much, no more replicas. Now it's Mrs. Vesna Bedekovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u47018	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary and Associates, I will do as much time as I can, and we have already detailed all the changes that have been made here, so I will not talk about it, because here is a more clear idea of what the differences between the first reading and the second reading were, and I will certainly repeat that this legal solution actually represents, as Mr. Secretary of State has said, in fact, a kind of emergency intervention that should mark the end of the anonymouss that in the system were indeed creating a mess and a remiller system, and I will certainly say that regardless of this emergency intervention, I certainly support a complete amendment to this law when we should deal with some more details that are related to inspection surveillance. What is important again I will remind myself, and yet I will return to this morning's debate on the committee encouraged, I did not say at the beginning, so I apologize, inspired by the idea of colleague Maria Lugarić, if Mary is now listening I did not mention it to her at the beginning, so the proposal is that, in a similar way, the amended and advanced Law on Professional Pedagogical Oversight. You have heard that this law has been last amended since 1997, and practice shows us that we have very, very frequent complaints, submission parents precisely to the work of teachers, teachers, teachers, teachers, educators, etc. And in such cases, the Law on Professional Pedagogical Control is followed, not under the Inspection Control Act. And so I think it's important here, and often I'd dare say it's a mix and a mustache in practice, and it rarely happens that they don't differ and there's no difference between an educational inspection and professional pedagogical supervision. Namely, what is the job and jurisdiction of the educational inspection if we look at this law that we are now talking about, then we will see that the educational inspection is carried out with regard to the application of laws and regulations which are worthy of establishment, the way institutions work in the system of education, working relations, labour rights, rights, real interests of students etc., and if we look at the law in place on professional pedagogical supervision, so the one that hasn't been changed since 1997, then we will see that professional pedagogical supervision is carried out in the implementation of the annual plan and programme of work of the school institution, by direct monitoring of teaching, by looking at pedagogical documentation, conversations with students, parents, teachers, members of the professional bodies of the school institution. And what is important is to point out that I am a supervisor or advisor as we call him in the law is still a supervisor, and today we have counselors, overseeing teaching, organisation, teaching planning and all other forms of educational work, professional use of textbooks, teaching programs, aids, teaching equipment. What is very important, therefore, is to monitor the fulfilment of pedagogical and methodical didactic requirements and teaching criteria, monitor the conduct of exams, student evaluation, etc. In addition, the consultant proposes measures to improve the educational system, measures to improve the organisation, planning, methods of work of the school institution and therefore provide professional assistance to teachers, teachers and care for their pedagogical training and monitors the results of the educational work of the school institution reported by the director. So there's this communication, and in my opinion, there's this very, very important preventive role of professional pedagogical supervision, and so here's the time I'm running out, I support the initiative, and again I'm asking Mr. Secretary of State for you to pass on the minister to change this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u47019	Thank you. You have two replicas. Mr. Shimičević's first line.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u47020	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, here's how empty the assembly is, we all swear that our education and education system is important to us, but obviously we're the rest of us who aren't involved in the campaign. That's the election now, so my God. You have well detected the problem of professional pedagogical supervision and inspection work. And that here I wanted to ask you what kind of role you think should be the principal or pedagogical service to bring these things to an end. If professional pedagogical supervision comes to school and there is a possible material violation of certain rights or the use of different methods and forms of work, the school records come in and if the principal or pedagogical service doesn't follow and they don't want to change the teacher, then we won't get anything with it. So the role of director and pedagogical service should be much greater. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u47021	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u47022	Thank you very much, colleague. First, I'll look back at the first part of your replica. Yes, the circumstances are such that a lot of colleagues and colleagues on the ground, we know that there is a pre-election campaign going on and I respect that here, they have to work on the ground, but I'll say it anyway, and you and I are educators and we're long-term. I have a lot of, a lot of internships in education at all levels, from primary school to higher education and science systems, and you know, we all swear on teachers, teachers, and it's hard, hard, and when there's a need for a reasoned discussion and a reasoned proposal to improve the system, then we're gone like we're not here today. The second part, the role of professional pedagogical service, communication with the director, absolutely, not only when professional teaching comes because when professional pedagogical supervision comes, then it's over. Director as Head of Institute and Professional Pedagogical Service, Pedagogue The psychologist and all the other experts are actually one team, one [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] A team that has to work on a daily basis. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u47023	Thank you very much. Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u47024	Dear MPs, first one note to a colleague, there are those of us... The campaign, but we care about the education system, so we came to this point to discuss a little bit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] My colleague knows I'm quite active here, and I'm trying to make the most of it, even though I've been working in the education system since the former Yugoslavia. Well, so that was a long time ago. [[Intruder Bedekovic: Me too, me too.]] I just wanted to make a note of something. What Mr. Bakic mentioned, that we should have steps when reporting to an educational inspection. It means that everything before that, given that the educational inspection actually controls the work of the principal and the professional departments in schools, that first it is necessary to address the principal and all of these services that need to be dealt with and only after that to the educational inspection. The same is true of this law that you mentioned about expert pedagogical surveillance. It makes no sense to immediately address the inspection if we have not passed professional service at school and if we have not passed the principal and everything else we could have gone through.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u47025	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u47026	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, thank you for being here for the debate and I appreciate your contribution here to today's peaceful debate, one of the few peaceful here in these days and therefore thank you for your participation in the debate and contribute to the lighting of this issue. I'll agree, so I advocate this whole approach to amendments and this law, and I'll agree that there's one thing that we need, let's do that, I'll sort it out as one coin, I'll step up because I'm not personally an advocate of the repressive system. The surveillance inspection isn't police surveillance, it's not repression. Among other things, inspection surveillance has a preventive role, and it should be his first mission, and not just the other part of the story to come and write the fines, but because when it's over, when the inspection comes, the story is over. So this gradual step-by-step approach is very important. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u47027	Thank you. No more replicas, thank you. And finally, Mr. Eric Fabianic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u47028	... colleagues and colleagues. [[Specially enabled.]] I'm also glad this debate is peaceful. Here we have a flash of amendments to the law regarding the educational inspection for which the colleague who spoke on behalf of the club said that the SDP club would support it and that fellow Simicevic was also saying that we are calling for a complete solution and I think we all agree. But here I'll remind you that last week when the SDP also proposed a flash solution to the Law on Legalization, then it was also mantra about the whole solution, but the flash change of course didn't go through, but this isn't the topic. Without further ado, these are the improvements that have been proposed before us and which should be supported. But I also have to be more specific about the role of educational inspectors because, unfortunately, one thing has been shown in practice, and that is that they are often dealing with things that are not in their jurisdiction. For example, which are in the sole jurisdiction of the founder and that is, for example, the issue of regular maintenance, investment or investment itself because it is nevertheless a matter of political decision or school board or the director himself, so here we are not talking about the system of legality of work. And then we have, I would point out something that's not there, but when we think about the whole solution, we have to think about it and it's an art. 147. The law on primary and secondary schools, i.e. primary and secondary education, where it says that de facto these supervisory tasks are also done by the competent office of the county. So the county's competent office helps the educational institution write its statutes, gives consent to the statute, and then has to monitor it afterwards, according to the logic "when you are judged, the cadiya sues you" or otherwise. And that part and that lack, I think that when we're looking for a whole solution, we have to look at it anyway, so we have to look at things in one whole. That part of the article. 147. It is necessary to coordinate safely before the reform itself that has led to the transfer of competence of the state administration to the county and that is something that I draw the attention of the legislative authorities to take and the part, even if it has gone through some changes, but in any case we need new comprehensive solutions. Here, I'd like to finish my debate before the end of time, see if there's a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u47029	Thank you very much, but you have two more replicas. Three replicas. Mr. Shimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u47030	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Representative, here, thank you for supporting these changes, they are cosmetic, but they are very important for 60,000 educators, those who are responsible, hardworking, hardworking and taking care of their business. I don't know if I'm going to be right now, but I think the educational inspection is independent in its operation and that the county actually has no authority in school, it can in one segment, given that it's the founder, but the teaching process, I think it's just an educational inspection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u47031	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u47032	Thank you. I would only draw your attention, so on what is the parent's law, 147 because there can be intertwining this, to intertwine jurisdiction, I think that law should be harmonised, therefore, and therefore, because it can happen de facto, that is, in the nature of conflict of interest. So this does not diminish the rights and responsibilities of the educational inspection, but it should eventually be harmonised with the novel that is related to the law itself, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u47033	- Mrs. Crescent. Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u47034	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. In your presentation, you pointed out that you advocated full access to this law and so on, you stressed that it was necessary to specify the role of an educational inspector, so I was wondering, can you specify and say, in your opinion and what do you think should be changed, so what is the specific role of an educational inspector and what would a particularly educational inspector do when he comes to the field directly?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u47035	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u47036	Well, in particular, I've given an answer in the sense that they monitor and what is not in their jurisdiction a few times. So what are the political decisions of the founders, and not what is the normative part, and unfortunately it happens, but I think that we should pay very much attention to something that is respecting the pedagogical standard, which unfortunately we as a state cannot fully realize, in general speaking, so as county and as cities, and this is a matter of one-way work in schools, because it is a pedagogical standard that was adopted long ago, which we cannot realize, and I think that there, that educational inspection, too, must give us and give us these statistics as legislators that we have, don't? The fact is that in practice, unfortunately, we have a lot of complaints, and I know people who do inspector work, that because of anonymous applications, they come to work on Saturdays, so that they can also share the tasks they think are really important to investigate, just because of anonymous reports, here's, I don't know if I've satisfied you, this one. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u47037	Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u47038	Dear colleague. You've turned your attention to a problem that's really present, and it's not just about county. He's also here about cities. In fact, the cities are the founders of schools, elementary schools, and if the city is the founder, then the statutes of the school are actually brought to the city council. So that's where the school statutes are adopted. If he is the founder of the county, then the statute is adopted at the county assembly. So there are these ingenuities that actually get intertwined and that should be taken into account as well as Mr. Secretary's attention so that this problem can be resolved, so that we can function more easily later.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u47039	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u47040	Thank you. But under the new regulations, the county as the founder, i.e. in the character and work of the mayor, gives consent to statutes, no more representative bodies, or at least what we are, that is, bringing in the instruments of establishment, in any case, so when new schools are set up, that is the County Assembly. Yes, there are certain things, so by abolishing the headship that once existed, part of the jurisdiction was passed on to the mayors, one part was transferred to representative bodies, so there were walks that were related to appointments of members of the school boards, where we always have some changes, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u47041	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Just so we don't invent another body that will unite all those inspections. And we have Mr. Tomislav Paljak who will speak in the end on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u47042	Thank you very much, Vice President. Honorable MPs, distinguished MPs. Yes, I'm going to use the right of final address, so here, regardless of the number, or the smaller presence of MPs and MPs today, we can, however, I think, conclude that when it comes to education and education, since it's always about very life-threatening topics, that here, and the debate can be developed in a very good and constructive direction. I would like to say, here, that no matter what side the proposals came from, that they were well-intentioned and, of course, I will start with the debates of the exhibitors, say that what we wanted to achieve through the draft of this law we are, precisely in the sense that it is very specific and that it is very clear and that it will immediately help our colleagues and colleagues in schools. And that's why here, there were only two amendments, and it was about the fact that this really solves the problem of anonymouss. That problem could have been solved, even before, but here I am, I have the right to think that we are the furniture that recognized it, that input that came from the chambers we heard and we reacted immediately. Regardless of what is at the end of the line, you cannot ban people from applying anonymously, because it would be discriminatory, in a way it applies to taxes, because, of course, even though we did not provide for charging here, there could be problems in which our citizens really have the right to communicate with public authorities and, therefore, through such submissions that do not necessarily have to be based. Regardless of all this, these amendments to the law, we have come to an end with anonymous reports and the situation will certainly improve in this regard in the chambers. What is also apostrophyd here and what I will of course pass on to the Minister and what is certainly one contribution to the debate is the need to go towards amendments to the Law on Professional Pedagogical Control because it was absolutely visible here, too, that these powers are very easily overlapped and that what is, in principle, a job of educational inspection and it is primarily a matter of supervision of the formal structure and mode of work and then legal exercise of student and labour rights and does not refer to the assessment of professionalism, methodicality and pedagogical competences in the work of individual teachers, there is indeed something that we need to distinguish and better clarify what we end up with and we are quoted as what will come in our next activities in terms of discussing the whole law and the whole text of the law. Here, I really thank you both for the discussion and for the fact that you stayed on this second reading even though it did not have any normative differences compared to the first one and that you participated in me thinking of creating a better education system in the Republic. We don't need to get carried away with big words, it's not true that this is an attempt to trick teachers, quite the opposite, and I think that we would be in such a quick and efficient way, so if we need to take smaller steps, we can achieve much better results than big announcements and throw away big words. Thank you so much anyway, all of you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-28-0.u47043	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. Tomorrow morning, at 9:30 we continue to work with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Biofuels Act for Transport. Goodbye and rest. SESSION Interrupted at 15.33 p.m.
