ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u27248	We are now going to the fifth debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club will speak to a respected colleague, Siniša Hajdas Doncic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u27249	Thank you. Dear President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. The issue of the state of Croatian science and university clienteleism is a fundamental issue of every country, every country that wants to develop normally inclusively. What do we have in Croatia? Here we have “30 deans signed for rector Boras’ shift, ” a newspaper today. My question is, what have these Deans been doing for the last 10 years? Why did they not react that Croatian research institutions have the least published scientific papers in the EU in prestigious magazines less than 5%, the EU average is 10%, the average of Denmark, and I always say when we talk about the development strategy that Croatia should move towards Denmark, figuratively, is 15%. What do we have in HAZ? We've got clientelem, we've got political advances, we've got puss. We have the sin of what should be the moral verticals of every society. And what's going on today? I don't think now of the ghastly accusations of sexual violence, so the relevant studies of the Faculty of Philosophy say that in the last 10 years 41% of students have complained about one of the forms of blackmail, whether because of the assessment, whether because of the progress, of these same professors and of those same deans that are just now responding. And you know why they're reacting today? And no, no, because of the failure of order into the vaccine of the rector Boras because after this site the rector Boras no longer exists, let's be clear, if you know on the cover how it works in Croatia. You know why? The question arises where is the eternal predictor, where is Mr Ante Cicovic and what happens to his third attempt at retirement? You know what's going on? Again, from HDZ's minister, they start a clientleistic game, everything goes back to the beginning again, and then we can all ask ourselves, when will Croatia reach Denmark? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u27322	Let's move on, the 3rd debate is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and esteemed counterpart Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u27323	There is no doubt that one of the most beautiful features of the Croatian People's Being in the past was an endeavor to bring its people's life into line with the principles of God's published truth. And not only when she could benefit from it, but also when he felt bitter. This is what all the Croatian people expect, and this is what they hope to do today from their assembly, let them pass laws that will not be cut by the law of God, to ensure the blessing of God the Creator, because one is written by a legislator and a judge who can save and destroy, to bring the laws of righteousness where all equal burdens are, to be equal with the same rights, to make laws possible for the people not to be burdened with burdens that they cannot bear. These are the words of Blessed Alojzi Stepinc, who referred at the opening of the Croatian National Assembly right here to the Croatian people and HS back in 1942. And on February 10th, we mark Stepincheva, we mark the moment, the day of the death of Blessed Aloysius Stepintz. And here on this day I would mention another man who was crucial in the life of Alojzi Stepinc, and this man is called Jakov Blažević, a pardon named Jakov Blažević. Jakov Blažević for those who do not know he was also the chief prosecutor of the National Republic of Croatia. He was the one who was the most responsible, who worked directly to condemn Aloysia Stepinac to 16. Strong slaves, Jakov Blažević. And do you know where else Jacob Blažević was mentioned? He was awarded to you thanks to his efforts and work in communist Croatia and Yugoslavia, so he made progress all the way to the chairman of the Socialist Republic presidency and signed this document in 1978, and the document on health measures to exercise the right to free birth of children, i.e. in translation of the Law on abortion and abortion. So, the signator, who passed this law of bad law, which has been legalized to kill the unborn, is the same man who convicted and sentenced the blessed Aloysia Stepinac. Fellow MPs, and MPs, of course, choose whether you are Jacob Blažević or do you want to be as much like what the Blessed Aloysius Stepinac said? And what the blessed Aloysius Stepinac said about the abortion and I'll read it to you. He talked about it many times. "The abortion is evil in itself. No social indication, no scientific reason can justify direct abortion or make it something other than what it really is and what remains before God is the murder of an innocent man. And the warm murder of an innocent man in heaven for revenge, it's disgusting and sinful, and especially if his source is his personal interest and greed seeking gain. The abortion is a huge social evil that has brought so much trouble to not only individuals but to entire families and has seriously wounded the tree of people's life in our day. But while in front of those who should be champions in the fight against abortions, I express his inner social wickedness, I predict that some may just smile at my appeal but no contempt and smile can remove the unchangeable realities that come from the national law and positive statements, which is that the direct abortion within itself is a grave ethical evil." I will repeat once again, the blessed Alojsia Stepinac that we hope will soon become a world. And one reason why he should be holy was that he had no “but. ” He explicitly defended what he believed and lived, defended the right to life, loved his country of Croatia. And you choose whether you want to be more like the blessed Alojzi Stepinac or Jakov Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u27379	We're going to another debate, that's Green-Left Block Representative Club, dear colleague William Matula. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u27380	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. 30 December 2020 The government of the Republic of Croatia means on the last day of work last year, it gave the City of Varazdin consent to the issue of municipal bonds worth 67 million kuna. This borrowing is funded by the so-called so-called "indemnity". the integrated settlement that was made last summer means in the summer of 2020. With this settlement, Mayor Varazdin Ivan Chehok wants to ensure that the legal transactions he concluded between 2008 and 2011. on behalf of the city, and with companies owned by the Patafta family and owned by Hrvoja Vojvoda at the time was part of the company owned by Davor Patafta, and Patafta is now vice president of the City Council. The company "EKOS HOLDING" is owned by Croatia's Duke, the Duke is the former president of the HDZ city of Varazdin. Therefore, the agreement was concluded this summer that these under quotes of business, transactions are carried out regardless of the outcome of the criminal proceedings for serious corruption which have caused them to be initiated and to facilitate the legal position of Ivan Chehok, Davor Patafta in these proceedings relating to the subject matter of this settlement, meaning 67 million kuna on the last working day. The abovementioned contracts against the mayor and his associates and partners lead to three criminal proceedings none of which have been legally completed. According to an unlawful judgment of the County Court in Zagreb of 12.7.2018, the Mayor of Chehok was sentenced for the offence of abuse of office and power to an unconditional sentence of 2.g., Davor Patafta to an unconditional prison sentence of 1st g. And eight months. The government of the Republic of Croatia has been informed of several controversial aspects of an integrated settlement issued by agreement. First, proceedings shall be brought before the Ministry of Justice and Administration, or before the High Administrative Court, on the establishment of the legality of the City Council session from 28 July last year, to which that integrated settlement was voted. Secondly, the issue of consent is contrary to the Budget Law. Third, an application has been filed against the mayor due to an apparent conflict of interest and the Commission for Decision on a conflict of interest has initiated proceedings. Fourthly, integrated settlements are the subject of legal dealings that have led to 3 criminal proceedings against Ivan Chehok, Davor Patafta and others for serious corruption. They have already been convicted of these acts. The fifth, against the mayor and his associates, a criminal application was filed to USKOK and therefore the inspections were conducted. There is a reasonable doubt that a new criminal offence has been committed by an integrated settlement. So, the situation in Varazdin is just another one in a row, in a long line where we witness the government's tolerance for Prime Minister Plenkovic and HDZ to corruption. As for the City of Zagreb and the Mayor of Bandic and Varazdin, we can see how political trade with HDZ provides full protection from the judiciary. The decision was taken thanks to the political influence of Damir Habian, president of the Varazdin HDZ, who also became an MP in parliament in the previous parliamentary elections. Our colleague, Habiban, is also a member of the HS Justice Committee, among other things, he gives a preliminary opinion in the election process on the decision of the Supreme Court President of the State's Attorney General. Agent Habib entered this committee despite the fact that he was four years ago. was in the coalition with Ivan Chehok. Czechoko was then prosecuted for corruption, and Habian continued to support him after he was convicted of corruption in 2018. Habib and HDZ, of course, did not support the establishment of an investigative commission to determine political pressures on the judiciary, of course. I just want to say that this speech of mine is being submitted to the report on the abuse of the advisers of the management of the Varazdin Cleanness of Robert Brisco, which we watched in the search report of RTL. Robert Briski is responsibly seeking to save the public company from Muscular settlements of varazdin [[Intruder: Thank you]] city administrations. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u27430	We're going to the fourth debate now. A respected colleague, Ruzica Vukovac, is on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u27431	Thank you very much. Dear Members, since the institutions of the Republic of Slavonski Brod have made a "city of the case" with their inaction, I believe that after a long time I must again talk about air pollution that has occurred in the town of Slavonski Brod in recent days was purple or extremely dangerous to human health. Citizens of Slavonski Brod and surrounding areas with air pollution have been struggling for more than 12 years, for so long, citizens of the city of Brod have been warning of the impossible conditions of life. At the risk of their constitutionally guaranteed right to a healthy life. Art. 70. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is defined as providing conditions for a healthy environment. The same article defines how everyone is obliged as part of their powers and activities, to pay particular attention to the protection of human health, nature and the human environment and parallel to that, the Criminal Law also defines crimes against the environment whose elements can be detected with a simple eye in the current situation in which the town of Brod is located. The risk of pollution faced by citizens of Slavonski Brod as well as residents of the Bosnian Ship, taking into account the work of the potentially largest polluter so far, so the oil refinery in Bosnia and Herzegovina Ship, can be classified under the category of environmental risks produced. The risks produced are the work of man and not related to natural disasters such as drought, earthquakes or the like, but are the consequences of exclusively human intervention in nature. Although there are other types of pollution in Slavonski Brod, the refinery in Brod is particularly controversial because it was not chosen by the citizens of Slavonski Brod as a source of pollution, but also because of the extent of the pollution caused. Also, the fact is that oil arrived at a time when the refinery was working, in the very refinery precisely with the Croatian pipeline, so JANAF, led to a conflict between the public and civil sectors in the Republic of Croatia. in the context of risk sociology, we can say that there is a lack of climate trust and good communication between authorities and experts towards the public, which prevents effective risk management. The public provides different information on the modernisation of the plant, on the deadlines for reducing pollution and so on, while better communication of institutions with citizens could contribute to a long-ahead project of education and information for citizens on air quality in the town of Slavonski Brod, which is unfortunately not implemented. A year ago, informal information was leaked that the refinery is not working but nobody knows exactly what it means, perhaps some plants work only occasionally or only partially and if the refinery doesn't work at all, what does 700 or 800 people in the refinery do there? Meanwhile, in its long-standing fight for clean air and the right to a healthy life, the demands, concrete demands of the citizens of Slavonski Brod, in particular the requirement that the Government of the Republic of Slavonski Brod, the competent ministries, the county and the city, respecting the constitutional obligation, take as far as possible to protect life and health of the citizens of Slavonski Brod and the Brod-Posavina County, including the recording of the source of pollution, their type and quantity as necessary sanctions. On the other hand, the requirement for Croatia to be involved in the process of issuing an ecological authorisation for the operation of the Bosnian Ship refinery, based on the ESPO Convention, thus the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment across national borders. I point out that Croatia has only 10 months left. in order to be involved in the context of the protocol and communication with the ship refinery, as it is time for the issue of a new authorisation for the operation of the refinery on 6 December 2021. In the event of air pollution in Slavonski Brod, we can conclude that economic interest has an advantage over environmental protection and the preservation of human health. The Republika Srpska government favours Russian owners, and Croatia is missing the mechanisms available to protect its citizens. Finally, I would like to thank the tireless activists of the Eco-integrated Association who do not give in to the fight for air rights, for the clean air of the Brodjans and numerous citizens activists as well as the Association "HRVI of Homeland War, Slavonski Brod", so HVIDRI whose members bravely stood at the border with BiH in the last protest organised in support of the fight for constitutional right to the health of citizens and the healthy environment of all of us in the area of Brodo-Posavina County. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u27502	Good morning, dear colleagues and colleagues. As always, as always on the first day of the session in the week, we have discussions between clubs and independent representatives on the presentation of the position. The first is today's Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS and respected colleague of Anka Mrak Taritaš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u27503	Thank you very much. The Honorable president of HS, respected colleagues and colleagues. Something unusual has been happening lately with the associates of our Prime Minister, Mr. Plenkovic. All these days, we've witnessed Mr. Damir Vangelic's public reluctance, which echoed almost like a raindrop. The prime minister was convinced things were settled and there was no concern. The campaign for Vangelic has already begun, the whole false reconstruction of Zagreb was designed only as a theatre tower for one mayoral candidacy, until it echoed the not-repeated prime minister. All right. I have to admit too much for the Prime Minister, let alone for Mr. Vanjelic, but in the shadow of that great no, but also other topics that we've been obsessed with lately, there is one other very interesting statement left. Economy and Sustainable Development Minister Tomislav Ćoric, better known as TC, commented on the INA case some day and said the following, "I see no reason not to see any concrete information about this issue by the end of this year. It has been a long time since the government's promise now is finally time for us to reach a certain point in the process." A long time has passed until the government's promise says the minister, and it is right that it has been a really long time since Prime Minister Plenkovic is the one who made this promise to the government, announced that the INA issue will be resolved further 2016. The oldest among us may still remember that Christmas Eve was a long time ago in 2016. Andrej Plenkovic called an extraordinary press conference at which he announced that the government is moving in the process of returning INA under Croatian control or buying shares of INA from MOL. I'm surprised by Coric's courage that he has so openly shared the pucks with his boss, but he's really right, it's been a long time since the government made that promise. Of course, time is the least of the problems in this ridiculous boyish and reckless promise made by the Prime Minister in 2016. I have to admit, to me, it's a much bigger problem, for example. The fact that even after more than four years obviously from Zagreb to Budapest has not reached the information that we have decided to buy INA from them because those who understand it usually use it if you want to buy something that is at least conscious and the owner, and even more useful if that owner from whom you want to buy has any intention at all to sell it. It seems that Mr. Plenkovic, Coric and the rest of the team have overlooked the part. But let's also be realistic, I really must admit it is not clear why MOL would want to sell when in Croatia, thanks to the current and former HDZ governments, it has a royal position. MOL draws up Croatian oil and gas supplies for concession fees that can only be desired, the least possible, and then sells us reprocessing in this market there are also in retail and wholesale dominant positions, and the only refinery that remains manages us as pleased. In this process, the transfer of Croatian oil to Hungarian and Slovak refineries we remember the well-important role played by the minister known as TC, a man who now announces that by the end of the year the problem will finally be solved. Whether Croatia should even seek to buy INA at some other time, but I think we are all already tired of this nonsense together. Neither MOL will be ready to sell to the INA until the last drop of value has come out of it, nor will the HDZ colleagues be able to change anything. It's really funny that a team that was in turn coming down the hair of Hungary and MOL from Sanader to Plenkovic with all Corics amongst the more has the nerve to mention to INA, let alone announce that something will be resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u27601	We're going to the last debate, dear colleague Maja Grba-Bujevic on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u27602	Mr. President-in-Office, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Allow me to present on behalf of the HDZ Club a position related to vaccination and vaccine. It's been more than a year since the coronary virus appeared among us, it's become part of our daily life, and we've been able to control it and keep it apart by limiting our lives. This global pandemic has affected the whole world and left many consequences for both the health system and the economy. All of these measures that have been implemented to combat the pandemic can, in accordance with previous scientific knowledge, be stopped by obtaining immunity as many people as possible, and this is exactly what vaccination will allow. The vaccine is the most effective weapon against spreading the infection and exit strategy of the pandemic. Adverse reactions of current vaccines observed in clinical studies are not beyond the expected and normal range. This month, Croatia will receive 154,000 doses of AstraZenec vaccines, which is a large number of citizens with impatience. The efficacy of this vaccine in the prevention of disease according to the evaluation of the European Medicines Agency is about 60%, but at an interval to the second dose that is longer for this vaccine, the efficacy is even 80% that the vaccinated person will not develop even mild symptoms of Covid-19. We all wish to stop the epidemic, and the properties of this vaccine are effective in preventing severe disease and death. This means that people who are cut should be fully protected in a way that will not develop a difficult clinical picture or that will avoid a respirator and a possible fatal outcome. AstraZenec has announced that their vaccine is effective not only in preventing infection but also in reducing further transmission of infection, which is not available for other vaccines so far. According to data from the European Medicines Agency, no significant difference in efficacy of this vaccine between younger and older age groups has been assessed. AstraZenec also announced that clinical data in the next few weeks will confirm that the vaccine is equally effective in people over 65 years of age. where severe clinical images and fatalities are just the most present. Based on the available data on clinical trials of Covid-19, which have been registered in the Republic of Croatia, there is no reason to make a recommendation for vaccinations which would differ from those approved by the European Medicines Agency or the lower age limit for the use of this vaccine is 18 g. until there's no age limit. This vaccine as well as the other vaccines that have been registered so far is effective, safe and properly tested otherwise the European Commission for Medicinal Products would not approve of the use to citizens. As the reduction in the transmission of vaccine diseases is effective, it is important to split as many citizens as possible as possible, as is the recommendation of the HZJZ profession, and all to achieve collective immunity as soon as possible. This would mean that all those who have been vaccinated + all those who have been over the covid are collective immunity, which will ultimately lead to a significant reduction in the transmission of Sars-CoV-2 infection to the Republic of Croatia, but also globally. When at least the approximate collective immunity is achieved we hope and we believe that in a situation where we will finally be able to live and work normally without greater limitations, hang out, make those close contacts that we lack, but also meet with our elders who are now isolated and that we will be free to participate in all social activities, and travel carefreely without the risk of infecting Covid-19. The vaccine will not be coerced into the Republic of Croatia and everyone has the right to wait for the vaccine to come in which they would prefer to be vaccinated. However, it should be borne in mind that the worst decision is to delay vaccination against Covid-19 due to the great danger of the occurrence and possibility of developing a disease. Whatever vaccine we choose, each of them serves in defense against the heavy, heavy form and death. It is up to the government to make the vaccine possible, and it is up to all of us and our citizens to decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u27603	Thank you, too. This brings us to the end of the presentation of the position of clubs and independent representatives, and we will now move on to the announced agenda. Now we're going to the 7th debate, Representatives' Club of the Bridge, dear colleague Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u27677	I'm gonna start this speech of mys, the souther, the sadder. Croatian roads launched a public tender a few days ago for the construction of a 4-track road from Vučevica to a non-existent Kozjak tunnel where about 40 million kuna will be invested. The absence of that tunnel is similar to the case in Omis, only there is a tunnel, but there is no road to it, it is mocking with Dalmatia and the character is strengthened, but it went under radar 20, that as a Christmas card for Christmas when after a long time, I do not remember the Homeland War, when the night line of Split-Zagreb train could not be lifted. The same train that came faster from Split to Zagreb in 2005 is no less than 2 hours than it is now. He doesn't invest in that line of sight towards Dalmatia or who cares. An earthquake in Banovina has exposed all the misery of this policy that is directed towards that end, but it is the same towards Dalmatia and the face. Pre-election time is now coming, now public tenders will be called, I'll just warn i.e. to point out, cry out, we have a problem that only opens up for, in the pre-election time, and those who would try to execute, don't solve, they're vertical towards the vervain end, according to the imotic end, the cetin end, the Knin end, the drin end. From Krka to Neretva. None of these verticals are called public competitions. For my Cetinska krajina, the centre of Dalmatia Zagora, the most prospective area in Croatia for life, which is near Split that is overcrowded, with a fast road 4-track for which the project was started in 2016 with a feasibility study, a variant was chosen, but the Croatian roads under the pressure of Ante Sanader must work Kozjak, Vučevica, the birthplace of Sanader, where it has the smallest exits of the car, at least. The wolf has its own way out. Unfortunately for politics, people have moved out of those parts. There's no people there, there's no one to ring, there's no bell towers, there's no mail, there's no postman. That's where the wolf and the fox work. You can see that. And perspective areas such as the Cetin end, Sinj, which has the possibility of development, the arrival of young people, which has a huge potential and the dealings with agriculture and tourism, is the merger on the Kukuzovac-Krizice highway, they do not want to do this, but they want us to do it by bad waste management and error both Ante Sanader and Blaženko Boban and the Ministers of Waste from Vrgorec on the highway to Sinj i.e. to a dump in Sinj. It's not over, it's over. The Lečevica project, a harmful project by Lečevica, a waste management centre on karst that would endanger water 30 million kunas has been spent, the Cup is still growing, it has not been cut off. 30 million kunas, except they've been passing directors and hiring within the waste management center, I think it's a nice environment or whatever it's called. Split is in trouble and the Split swimming pool and Dalmatia with waste management, we are facing the Naples script because of the unhappiness and negligence because their gardeners are more important to come, 4-track road, Sanader and teams than Blaženko Boban and others, than the development of my cetin area, Vrgorsko end, long-promised verticals, tunnels and iot area. Of course Knin and the whole Drnish and all that backwater. Dalmatia is forgotten. Don't just make pre-election promises, and if, when you promised, as Blaženko Boban said, if the infrastructure is not done, that he will build a tent in front of the government, he will neither make it, but only ministers will have to be obedient, unfortunately, to Ante Sanader and Blazenka Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u27762	The sixth debate of the club of representatives of HSS and HSU respected counterpart Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u27763	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We need numbers, deadlines, boundaries. Why? The numbers don't have a party color, the numbers are clearer, the objective, the numbers are fair. We need deadlines so we can plan life, business, expenses, and we need to set boundaries to know when someone crosses them. Yes, it is a pandemic, it is very restrictive criteria for Croatian and European epidemiologists and are predicting the release of measures in three circles. We now have numbers for the second round, the cumulative 14-day rate for the Republic of Croatia is 180.8 per 100,000 citizens and on the date of 1st February, for the second round for opening cafes, restaurants, for gatherings 50 persons is required 14-day incidence below 200. Why doesn't he have a decision? We agreed to make a deal, with a smile answered by a respected member of the staff on a journalist's inquiry when we can expect the opening of catering facilities, a continuation of normal life. I'm glad at least someone's laughing in this country in this situation. But that wasn't the smile of scientists and experts, that's the smile of politicians we ask every day for a piece of information and freedom. Imagine, information and freedom. Is that the response of those who broadcast "Let's Stay Responsible" from all screens? I'm just asking. And whenever a man dares to raise his hand out of the rear bench with shame and ask, Emperor, emperor, lord, when we open, he gets an answer, others have stricter measures, be thankful. What's the matter? What's going on? We no longer listen to the profession, we no longer follow the number of infected, the percentages, we now compare the measures. It doesn't seem very scientific. The doctor will not give the patient the medicine that gets the patient on the next bed but the medicine that needs this patient. If we compare ourselves with others, we mention everything, but just all the exceptions that have occurred in the last year of our survival. Come on, give a final inventory of all disrespect for measures in the Republic of Croatia. And just so we know, the virus doesn't hit every body in the same way, thank God and my mother in 87. is doing great, the virus doesn't hit every country equally, some of them are economic phoenixes, they've always been, so they're going to get up from this ash corona, some of them are already on the verge of breaking and the longevity of measures, or they're going to push us into the abyss, especially us where nothing is worth doing, where the values are reversed, where donated baby food is thrown into the trash, where the old people live abandoned and forgotten, where we admire the resourceful, and we despise the capable, where there's no job for young people, where awareness of the civil rights is a linguistic and content unknown. I'm sorry, but this is all sick. A little of the virus, a little of the man, and young people, who hunt in parks because they can't be without contact and entertainment anymore, because they don't want to live their lives because they don't want to see politicians who make exceptions to the rules they make themselves and create because they're sick of fear, these young people, instead of reproof, we owe them an apology. They're going to do, rob and repay all the decisions of mediocre politicians, little people and tiny souls. I don't make them look bad, I love our young people, but as one of the older ones here, I tell them that I understand them very, very well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32715	First point: - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Investment Encouragement Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 104. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172, 204 and 206. The Rules of Procedure of HS. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure adopted on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda a proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal by an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article. 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. I would now like to ask the proposer's representative to give us an additional explanation. With us is state secretary at the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development Natas Mikush Žigman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32716	Thank you very much, Mr. President, esteemed MPs, esteemed MPs. So here is the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Investment Encouragement Act. We are in line with the Commission's regulations on extending the right to use state aid, and as a result of the Covid-19 epidemic, three additional incentive measures are introduced to help the economy which are linked to the consequences of economic disturbances, which are caused by the Covid-19 epidemic and as follows. Firstly, undertakings in difficulty cannot be granted investment support in the principle of support, however, in accordance with this proposal of the law and under the provisions of the 2020 Commission Regulation, it is possible to grant exceptional support to entrepreneurs who were therefore not in difficulty on 31 December 2019 but who were then in the period from 1 January 2020 to 30 June 2021, so until this extension takes place in accordance with the regulations, they become entrepreneurs in difficulty due to the COVID-19 epidemic. So that's the first measure we're proposing to these changes and additions. The second measure relates to the situation where, under normal circumstances, the investment support user has to confirm that 2 years before the investment project was submitted and 2 years after the completion of the investment project, the so-called ‘investment project’ was not implemented. the transfer of the project within the Common European Economic Area or that there has been no loss of jobs, therefore in the area where the project has been reported and that the entrepreneurial activity has not moved to another area, however, if such loss of employment in the same or similar activity occurs in the period from 1 January 2020 to 30 June 2021, and because of the circumstances caused by the COVID-19 epidemic, it is not considered to be a transfer within the meaning of the Investment Incentive Act. So it will then be considered a circumstance that is compatible with the rules on state support. Finally, we propose an additional transitional measure relating to the mitigation of the consequences, also an epidemic of COVID-19, which would allow investment support to be provided to users for those investment projects whose three-year period of realization overlaps with the start-up period of COVID disease, thus allowing them to extend the prescribed three-year period of implementation of the project for one additional year. These are the short amendments that we propose to this law, and I would only ultimately like to say one more thing about the results of the implementation of the Investment Encouragement Act so far. Up until October 2020, 582 entrepreneurs, of which 556 companies and 26 crafts and 279 small and 171 medium and 132 large entrepreneurs, have so far confirmed the status of users of the investment support. The total value of these approved investment projects is around 25 billion kuna, with 18 500 new jobs in place. Of this, 8 461 new jobs relate to major business investment projects and to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs are worth more than 10 billion kuna investment projects, with the planned opening of 10 030 new jobs. The most reported projects if we look geographically are realized in the city of Zagreb, followed by Split-Dalmatia County, Zagreb County and Varazdin County. Data on the implementation of this legislative framework also show that good results are recorded in the area of high value added service activities because we have a significant number of investment reported in the area of the development of the use of new software solutions, and we also have a significant number of investment reported in the field of tourism while investment in manufacturing and processing activities is dominated by investments in the metro-research industry. Finally, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is proposing to amend the emergency law in order to give economic measures an additional incentive, i.e. to enable the fuller implementation of investment projects and of course, to avoid the effects of the pandemic on the economy. the preservation of business activities of business entities in Croatia and whose business activity has been reduced as a result of the COVID-19 epidemic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32717	I thank the secretary of state, please stay here because we have replicas. First up, Comrade Miro Bulj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32718	Thank you very much. State Secretary, COVID crisis is essentially just showing all bad policies towards entrepreneurs, entrepreneurship and development of the Republic of Croatia and we are witnessing that more and more of our people are going out and the growing part of GDP is from our people evicted, from the clues that went out. When we talk about entrepreneurs, tourism, entrepreneurship, middle, small, people are currently in trouble, they and their workers. People needed to take much stronger measures regardless of these incentives for investment that are important in the coronary crisis, but they needed to take a strong measure of this government, so I suggest a moratorium on interest and loans to the duration of the crisis, while it cannot function normally so that the economy, the labour market, while we have these measures because Slovenia, the first measure that was, was a moratorium on loans and interest. If... The banks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32719	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32720	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So the government recognized this need and due to the pandemic or COVID epidemic 19, just the institutions that lend entrepreneurship, and we are primarily talking about HBOR, so the HAMAG Bicro agency, too, enabled moratories on loans, and we also encouraged a special COVID-19 lending programme that provides additional liquidity for businesses.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32721	Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32722	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, the Secretary of State. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Mosta Club for 10 minutes because what you said isn't true. I said a moratorium on interest and loans, and that was proposed by the opposition, my club Mosta and the opposition. You speak moratorium on loans with a deal with banks. The only thing entrepreneurs have on their backs is 500 non-taxables like that. HGK and similar. Entrepreneurship and every job at this point is the most important, not only now but two-thirds of Croatia you have clocked entrepreneurs, entrepreneurship, and in the crown crisis now will Dalmatia, Istria mainly in tourism people will come to the brink of collapse, huge investments have in their buildings in their projects whether they are engaged in renting, anything. And the moratorium on interest and loans has no burden on banks, banks in Croatia each year have benefits from fees and commissions of 4 billion kuna from fees and commissions, not interest. They are solvent, and you only gave as a government moratorium one time on loans, but not interest so that ultimately when the moratorium is in this time period three months essentially interest goes on and on, and ultimately the payment of loans will be much higher for entrepreneurs, hosts and other citizens. This is not now populism, but this is a measure that has rejected the brim, a samar from the back that loaded the yoke unfairly within the EU. If Slovenia can, why can't Croatia? It's not far, here's a few dozen miles from us. Moratorium on interest and loans and that's at this point with these measures that you're counting That's what's gonna save maybe the businessmen. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32723	The apartment is approved. Is anyone else picking up? If we don't continue at 10:30. [[MEETING AT 10:22 A.M.]] [[CONTINUES AFTER MEETING IN 10.35 HOURS]] Please colleagues and colleagues take your seats so that we can continue our work, another replica, respected colleagues Vesna Vuceminović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32725	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Secretary of State, we know that in this Covid crisis not all economic branches are equally affected. Some of them had growth in the 3rd quarter, while others fell significantly, so I am interested because it is not such a large number of economic operators that use measures based on this law, how many economic operators have shown interest in these new measures in principle, so it is asking for a delay, and if you can answer the same, how many economic operators from Osijek-Baranja County or from these 5 Slavonian counties that use these incentive measures to encourage investment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32726	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32727	Thank you very much. As for, of course, not everything, all segments of the economy are equally affected. I can, as an example, point out exactly the activities of HBOR which, especially for tourism, provided a credit programme through which it actually gave the possibility of 0% interest, is, in the first year, so that, in fact, there is this sensitivity to those consequences left by Covid-19 and of course, we are also thinking about some other programmes that will include other industries that are particularly affected like the creative cultural industries. You asked how many entrepreneurs showed interest, I have here data actually through the Covid loans that Hamag Bicro placed, that 3600 entrepreneurs have used these loans so far, I don't unfortunately have regional data in the counties, but of course, we can later deliver them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32728	Let's move on. Comrade Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32729	Thank you very much, dear secretary of state. One of the objectives of this law is evenly regional development. Here you have indicated how many percent of the projects reported around the city of Zagreb, i.e. the county, I am interested in whether the projects have been reported from all counties, that is the first part, and the second part, also mentioned how many were reported, some of them gave up, and then of those reported were approved 582, and some of them gave up. Given this now Covid situation and the fact that many entrepreneurs are in irreparable difficulties, do you have any information on whether any other entrepreneurs have given up on those who have been approved, here are two parts of the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32730	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32731	Thank you very much, esteemed representative. So these statistics refer to the most representative county, of course, that the application was from other areas, but somehow we considered the one from which the largest number of applications actually comes and where the largest number of projects is actually realised. This certainly means that we should think about how to encourage other counties to invest, and in this sense there was also a measure on the activation of state property, unused state property which is actually specific to Croatia, so we have been able to negotiate this measure as a special matter with the EU Commission's service, however, the practice shows that even at regional and local level, this measure is unfortunately not used enough, and certainly there is one space in which we can further encourage the application of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32732	Thank you very much. Now it's time for my colleague Ban Vlahek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32733	Dear Secretary of State, I would like to warn that, following the fact that the incentives set out in this law to encourage investment are only encouraging support, at the time of approval, and that they cannot be consumed in the next fiscal period. In practice, the approval of this incentive under this law makes it difficult to report the same projects to co-finance EU projects, funds due to double funding. I propose that the evaluation enables entrepreneurs to decide on the desired way of funding, co-financing in the case of potential double funding of projects and not to exclude them automatically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32734	Thank you very much. I'm afraid I've heard a little bit of it, so here's what I'm going to try to understand, uh, answer the question. Which, yes, you are right, is the potential support for the reason that the applicant gets the status of eligible applicant for this support, and then in that part of the tax exemption, it is calculated at the end of the fiscal period, so that actually the entrepreneur is exempt from paying taxes on the basis of this law at the time of the calculation, i.e. the payment of the tax, is whether, then, it is a matter of fact and what I must say is that regardless of the time period, therefore none of the applicants who obtained the right to support, so that all the applicants who obtained the right to support actually ended it at the time when the fiscal period occurred. I don't know if there were any more questions, I just didn't understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32735	My fellow Witness, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32736	Respected State Secretary, based on the Investment Encouragement Act, provides for the return of money from investment in research and development, always the development, science and technology were the basis for the development of society, the growth of citizens' standards, the development of medicine, and I was wondering if you might have any information as to how much money is paid back from taxes paid on the basis of investment for research and development.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32737	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32738	Thank you very much. I don't have that information on my part for the reasons of the second law, so it's the Law on the Encouragement of Research and Development Projects, and there's also the possibility that projects where research and development activities are encouraged by entrepreneurs and where they co-operate with scientific and research institutions, result therefore from tax exemptions, but that's another regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32739	Comrade Lerotić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32740	Dear Secretary of State, as you yourself have said, these amendments and additions to the law are actually in order to alleviate this coronary crisis and there are no more significant objections to it. However, we ourselves do not want to admit that in this crisis, we have had the second biggest drop in GDP in the EU, which clearly tells us that the Croatian economy is not at all crisis-resistant and that is why we have received such a large amount of EUR 6 billion. I think we would need really much more ambitious changes to this law to encourage what domestic, foreign investment, to digitise and modernise our economy, to turn to new technologies and industry 4.0 and to create new jobs. We think this is incompatible with restructuring because we give 25% of the support while some countries give up to 50% when we talk about industry 4.0. So I'm curious when we can expect more serious and ambitious changes to the law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32741	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32742	I thank you for your question, of course, this is only one segment through which we encourage investment or the development of entrepreneurship whether it is small, micro, small, medium or large entrepreneurs. I would like to add that we are currently working on a recovery and resilience programme through which, as you yourself have said, Croatia has EUR 6 billion of grants available with the potential to use another 3.4 billion of favourable loans at EU level to the state budget, and that is where we focus primarily on encouraging the economy to green, digital and new technologies because this is what can ultimately be guaranteed or directed towards economic recovery. And we plan to realise these same goals through the next financial framework for '21. Until '27. A year.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32743	Now it's time for my colleague, Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32744	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State you went with this bill before there was a catastrophic earthquake in Sisak-Moslavina County, something in Karlovac, but based on Sisak-Moslavina County. So, do you even think in the ministry, and I suppose you're thinking about seeing how many entities there have used the measures provided for in this law, which can be helped and done, or should be considered and seen as to what kind of entrepreneurship that needs to be further developed there, the possibilities that they are. And when I think primarily of the European Green Plan, I think of this new Bauhaus project that Ursula von der Leyen launched or announced, I think there would be absolutely a lot of elements that we really allow the economy in this area, and we use all the tools to make something happen there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32745	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32746	Thank you very much. The esteemed MPs, of course, this is a programme that is horizontally related to all areas, I said earlier that I do not have specific information by county, but what I would like to stress is that the government is certainly in order to help the counties affected by these devastating earthquakes already launched certain initiatives such as the Ministry of Economy programme that we recently opened to help, so micro-entrepreneurs of the total value of 10 million kuna through which they can repair the damage to buildings or equipment that occurred due to the earthquake. It is also working on a programme of economic and social revitalisation of Sisak-Moslavina County through which long-term development goals should be defined and the economy should be directed where it should be developed for that particular area.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32747	Now it's time for my colleague Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32748	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I mentioned, in fact, what intrigues me, and certainly the whole public what is with the state property and how much it is even possible and the prerequisite that it can be actively put into the function of investment and encouraging investment because I think it is knowing it in the field and in its county, that there is a lot of it, that the question is sure how and whether property legal relations are solved, but that it should be very much fun and allow it to really encourage investment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32749	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32750	Thank you very much for your question. As I have previously pointed out, therefore, the activation of state property is one of the specificities of our law which we have successfully negotiated with the European Commission services in terms of indirect support to the economy unlike other countries that do not actually have it. Practice, it's a relatively recent change in law, practice has shown that it hasn't been used enough. In this way, I would also like to send a message, i.e. encourage units of local and regional self-government to use this mechanism more actively, which we have enabled by this law. Of course, we know what the situation in Croatia is with land issues, so this is a much broader issue than the law itself, but there is certainly the possibility of using inactive property that we think might be more significantly realised through the application of this regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32751	Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32752	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, if I am not mistaken on 12 January, the European Commission has approved a programme of support from the Croatian Government for entrepreneurs who are in difficulty for the reasons of the Covida-19 pandemic. I am interested in this programme, which has been approved by the Commission, to whom exactly, or which activities are covered by this programme, which, according to that programme, will be able to provide support by the Commission, and I think the total amount is around €525 million.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32753	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32754	Thank you very much. I assume you refer to regulations that allow the use of a more generous amount of support for individual entrepreneurs because before Covid, the rule that an entrepreneur can use up to EUR 200,000 in 3 years by de minimis rule is therefore not considered to be support. I'm adopting what's called adoption. the temporary framework has increased this amount to EUR 800,000 and we have therefore responded very quickly to these changes and adapted all existing support programmes precisely to enable as much help as possible to those entrepreneurs affected by the crisis. So here I can only point out a few statistics, through covid loans is put at the disposal of 2.6 billion kunas of which 2 billion were used, interest is on those loans 0.1 to 0.5% and so directly not through commercial banks, we raised the amount of guarantees Thank you very much. [[Intruder President: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32755	You can answer next time and then add a little more. Comrade Brumnic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32756	Respected secretary of state. When we talk about both this and other laws, then what's important is to look at the environment. Our environment is such that Europe has given us the most money, and it has given us because we are the most underdeveloped. And then my question goes very simply, we want a technological step, we want digitisation, and the departments that receive requests are not the same requirements that are able to correspondence and receive in digital form. It's very simple, if we don't change, if we don't change the environment, we'll have a hard time changing our entrepreneurship or society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32757	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32758	I thank you for your question. Of course, we agree that we need to digitise and speed up administrative processes as much as possible. The Covid crisis has somehow made us a little bit faster, I would just like to point out that Mr. Andrej Plenkovic's government has already adopted four action plans for the administrative discharge of which is exactly the last one for 2020. It primarily deals with administration of administrative procedures in the state and public administration, so I think that the direction is good and, of course, we should continue to work intensively.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32759	Comrade Klaric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32760	Dear Secretary of State. You were talking here, presenting information that I think very little or almost nothing in the Croatian public knows, and they are, given the circumstances in which we find ourselves truly amazing. If we look at how much support has been drawn out, how many projects have been launched, how many jobs have been opened in this presentation, and in the material we could see about the value of 25 billion kuna, about the opening of nearly 18,500 new jobs, and the very tendency of these amendments to the law goes in this direction to make it easier for entrepreneurs to overcome the crisis caused by covid. And finally, what we were talking about yesterday and on the board, that it is possible to convert this year into two years to meet them in some way and there, because given the circumstances, the pandemic and everything else is expected to last.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32761	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32762	Thank you very much for your consideration. Of course, we are satisfied with the results of the law which does not prevent us from working even more intensively towards being even better and I think it is available. Let me just maybe just briefly update the data on guarantees or loans, so the amount of guarantees from two to four billion kunas has been raised, the guarantees on crafts are raised from 50% to 80% and the total amount of loans and other programmes provided by HAMAG-BICRO is only placed for recovery from the covid of the crisis 6.7 billion kuna. The rise of this deadline for extending projects from one year to two years is considered possible and of course how procedurally this is proposed I think we can do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32763	And let's go to the last line, my colleague Pavlichek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32764	Respected secretary of state. So here are all the measures that are taken in the legal frameworks, and related to encouraging entrepreneurs and craftsmen at the time of the crown of the pandemic, of course, are welcome, but this way should be clearly and loudly said that often entrepreneurs and craftsmen entered the dubiosis not because of the crown of the pandemic itself, but primarily because of the numerous illogical decisions of the Civil Protection Staff itself, which at the time made it impossible for them to work, although it did not have a foothold in logical thinking. But here I'm curious, do you have any knowledge of whether measures are paid regularly, primarily here we mean a measure of 4,000 kuna for employees in crafts that could not work, primarily catering facilities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32765	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32766	Thank you very much for your question. Well, I can't really comment on the decisions of headquarters, as far as keeping jobs isn't in our portfolio, so I wouldn't have any more detailed data, but I believe it's all to actually make that money to get to those who need money as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32767	Thanks to the secretary of state, you can go back to your seat because we're going to continue the debate now. If the committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor, if not, then we'll begin the debate. The first is the Club of Croatian Sovereigns and Honored counterpart Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32768	Dear Secretary of State, the Honorable President of the Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. We are talking about investment, and when we talk about investment to me is the first association, and I believe many other Croatian citizens, something that happened in the '90s, it was like investment, and we actually call it privatisation today. And then under the cover of investments transformed the entire Croatian industry, all that existed for no money came into private hands because it was necessary to enter capitalism and all that people had built for decades had to come into the hands of individuals who were and were closely connected with politics. Since then, we've been hearing about investment, and in Croatia, as far as I know, I've been thinking right now about preparing for this debate to sit down some bright example of a brownfield investment or a greyfield investment where something was made out of nothing and I really don't know about such an example, some example that would be known to everyone who would be so striking and who would be a bright example, I don't know that. But I do know of a number of investments like that. This latest investment in Agrokor where there is one company, a company that works with agricultural products, which also deals with agriculture where we now have the investment of large investment funds from abroad. Then when we talk about investment, I would mention all possible investments in tourism activity and in trade. And now I'm interested in, some hotel that used to work, someone bought it today with foreign money, profits going out today, why we didn't protect our tourism production in a way that didn't encourage the one where we only had money spills, but to encourage brownfield and greenfield investments. The key project of Plenkovic's campaign was supposed to be the Batižele project. Batižele is usually a part of the city of Sibenik where the plant of electrodes and ferolegure was once located. At a time when Minister Maric managed the Ministry of State Property, the project was called several times by Plenkovic as a project of all projects, the main project, the impact project of his government. It's been five years. nothing has happened since the Batisle project or since the TEF project. Is that how you manage state property? Is this how investment is encouraged in our country of Croatia? What I must point out here is no one is against encouraging investment, but I believe that the state should only encourage investment in new, new jobs, and not in existing jobs that only change workers. Therefore, trade will function regardless of whether the owner of the trade chain of Croats or American or German, and on the other hand should encourage all those such as e.g. Roman cars that simply want to create a new value, new added value and new jobs. So, I would like this law to distinguish itself, separate in fact two types of investment, one investment is in real added value, and the other investment is increased as we have existing, that is trade and tourism. Here's so much on my side.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32769	Let's move on, the 2nd debate of the Center and Voice Representatives Club, honorary colleague Anka Mrak-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32770	Thank you, well-respected President HS, the distinguished secretary of state with an associate. Let's get back to the subject. So we have before us an emergency procedure to amend and supplement the Law on Encouragement of Investments with the final bill, which means that we are in the first and second readings. It is a law that enables investment in the Republic of Croatia to be promoted in such a way as to constitute a system of investment support and to encourage measures to achieve the necessary investment activities in a timely manner. The whole world, Europe, Croatia has found itself in one abnormal time and I cannot possibly agree to the option of calling this "new normal", it is not "new normal", this is abnormal. Come on, I want a day when I can shake hands with someone, when I can hug someone, when we can live normally, and when there won't be a need for laws like this because people don't get their own free will, not because they didn't work, not because they weren't ready for something but something we couldn't imagine at all that would be the subject they were in trouble with. Of course the EU recognized that, too. I am one of those who think it is extremely good that Croatia is an EU member because it is good to be in a society of good, advanced, rich people there only you can learn something and be better and we have amendments to the law that is technically very fine, introducing 3 additional incentive measures that have been defined in the way that the regulation and the European Commission have also adopted these changes which says what the support user must do, which are entrepreneurs in difficulty and which are transitional measures. In Croatia, we have an additional problem with this unfortunate earthquake and it is expected that something happens in the area of Sisak-Moslavina County, i.e. Banija and Banovina. But let me talk about this law, then of course we have to talk and beyond, and we have to talk about their goals, and I would refer to three things that are defined as the objectives of this law. One thing is the growth of employment and training of employees, the other is the economic activation of existing inactive assets owned by the Republic of Croatia and the third thing is regional development. So all of our documents, laws, strategies, we're always talking about even regional development. What is a balanced regional development? The opportunity for all parts of Croatia to have the same living conditions, investment opportunities and we are aware that this is not there. According to the data we've received, I have to admit that somehow, no matter when and when you and the opposition, you need some things to get and say and praise. The interpretation of this law was made in a way that could serve some other ministries, very detailed and very clear and I am taking this opportunity to say so. So the explanation has all the elements that you need to have. Of course we're curious and we want more, but it's an opportunity for another time. And now when we talk about regional development data that we have that when it comes to reported projects in the City of Zagreb is 18.9%, in the area of Split-Dalmatia County 10.9, Zagreb County 10.3 and Varazdin County 7.2. You see, from this point on, what we know, you don't need to be an expert, you don't need to be an expert, you don't have to deal with politics that we know the fact that Zagreb is always interesting, that Zagreb is the capital, that Zagreb is not only in terms of the population showing and increasing the number of inhabitants not because it is more lively children but because it is truly as a center and an economic centre absolutely acceptable and now that someone has a magic wand I am sure that this magic wand would say how it can be solved, but it exists only in fairy tales. And from this law we actually see that the most important thing is in the City of Zagreb and now is the key question that we all need to deal with. We had a national development strategy here in the debate and we talked a lot about what to do about what tools you can really encourage investment in some other parts of Croatia, what are the jobs that can be done there, what are economic operators? First and foremost, without humans, there is no development of the economy. When people leave you, you can have in your hands whatever elements you want and whatever ways you have but it just doesn't exist. So in my replica of the secretary of state and I asked what would happen in the area of Sisak-Moslavina County, there are also those businessmen who were in big trouble. Some will never again deal with the work they've done before, some will leave, but what are possibly the jobs that the state would recognize and really be so kind and say, these are some new jobs that will be there and that will be the possibility of development. I also purposely mentioned the green plan, and I mentioned on purpose this new Bauhaus that talks about new technologies related to the aspect of environmental protection, and that is one of the things to think about. The second thing I've mentioned, which I think is extremely important, which is a lifelong education or requalification. When you look at the little analysis we have of EU countries, then Croatia is at the bottom. There will be new jobs, there will be new technologies, there will be new machines, there will be new ways of the economy to deal with people. We don't have a chance to write off people who are 40, 50 even 60 years old to tell them you're there for another time you educated this guy for another time, people should have the possibility not only of lifelong education in terms of what you have, so here you have some additional education but in terms of continuous requalification for new jobs. So when you look at little data, new technologies introduce some new ways of thinking, some new ways that work, and that's something we need to take care of. Of course this law is the part that's connected to the ministry that's responsible for the economy, but in order for us to even have the development of the economy you have to look much wider and of course that's where I come to this, I already think it's not, that's unfortunate state property. So, we have about 1 million real estate units that include apartments, business spaces, abandoned military facilities and various land and all over for years I'd say good 30 years, and if I weren't wronging my soul to say 20 years there isn't a single strategy, there's nothing where the activation of state property doesn't stand. On the one hand there is the activation of state property on the other hand when you do it then you are in 6 troubles, and on the third hand on the Committee on Economy when that question was asked then I think it's the head of the sector, but I wouldn't want to mistake my soul to tell you more or less, it's one of the things that are important but it would be good to have a catalog so we know where it can be. You know what would be good if we finally had state property. That we have listed state property where absolutely undeniable property-legal relations have been settled. It would be good if we had a state property that we know about with a spatial plan planned in that space. So that would be some kind of base and some kind of basis that we could have at all. I must tell you that in 2013 we introduced the law for the first time that when the spatial plan, therefore on a spatial plan that should be manifested then he was no longer aware of whether AUDI, DUDI did not even matter was the Office of State Property Management, not because they would be a braker but to check out where the state property is and that they would not, that something would not have happened. I'm talking about spatial planning here because it's the basis for you, it's the way you can even manage space and allow space to happen. Because what was continued? Where people knew it was state property, they planned greenery or planned other things. Therefore, the state of the Republic of Croatia must start to deal with its assets in the most serious way, to know what it has, to know what state it is in, to resolve property legal relations and to make sure that they are intended in the spatial plan for certain economic activities. Just one sentence, and that's where I'm gonna end up. I want someone to come and say, "I want you to do it." 3 children's toys factories tell us where the state property is [[Thank you very much.]] We don't know that. [[Thank you very much, dear colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32771	Let's move on, now it's the HDZ Representatives' Club, respected counterpart Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32772	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary with an associate, colleagues and colleagues, we have before us amendments and additions to the Investment Encouragement Act. What I'm practically convinced of, and I hope that this is exactly the kind of law with this name here will be voted by consensus. As we heard in the introduction, and we could read from the material the primary purpose of these changes and the addition of the investment laws is to meet the economies at these times of the Covid crisis to succeed and complete the implementation of the projects launched to continue their economic activity and to gain the ultimate goal of opening jobs, the activation of space and all that was previously intended. So, at the very changes and the additions of the law, there is no need to speak too much, the incentives that were obtained and the projects were launched, at the moment when measures were passed and the law itself, no one could expect what would happen, but at that moment one of the rules was that entrepreneurs who were at that point in difficulty could not get into this programme, here these amendments and the additions of the law are changed in a way that those entrepreneurs who therefore entered into these difficulties but at the moment when the pandemic crisis had taken place that this measure was not applied to them but that they could also participate. In addition, the second amendment and addition refers to the part relating to the movement of the project within the common European economic space and finally, the third of the amendments to which I have mentioned in the replica, and it is related to the three-year implementation of the project itself and the legislator here proposes to extend or extend for one year, my reflection on the committee was also highlighted and I see that there is a good will both by the Government and the Ministry of Economy, to meet there also in view of the implementation of the project for all those difficulties, what will follow while still the crisis continues to extend to 2 years. What is important is to point out, and what is a little bit spoken about in the Croatian public because we are all overbooked about what kind of crises, plantings, calling out things I don't know about, we go under the framework and the media, so many times here in the Croatian Parliament, that huge energy as a huge investment, these huge projects that are currently being done regardless of the crisis, no matter what we're saying, throughout the Republic. Only these data that have been presented in the material and which the secretary of state has read and shown to us here about the number of entrepreneurs, businessmen across Croatia who have launched construction from their production plants, started the equipment, the acquisition of equipment, all those projects that they have applied for, and received funds for it, easier and all that, of course not only through this law, but also in synergy with local self-government units, because there are often mentions of some local sheriffs, I don't know what situations around the cities, municipalities around Croatia, and it is not mentioned that in Croatia of 550 units of local self-government, towns, municipalities, counties, that each of them has a huge number of projects in its territory and a whole series of economic activities that are being implemented, also thanks to the laws adopted here, efforts by the government of the Republic of Croatia and the rested ministries with a large amount of European funds. In order not to spread the story of what is stated here in these materials, since I am in some way working closely together and all my time in politics, in some ways the economy is the priority of my thinking because it is the only thing that can generate both jobs and the survival of our young people in this area, the settlement of Croatia and the growth of the budget of not only local self-government units but also the state budget. I'm going to give you an example of the Bakra business zone that has in the past less than 4 years in its area, thanks to this law, launched over 41 investments. So in these 41 investments, 16 halls have already been built and there are over 1,000 people in it. In less than four years of these built halls, the ones that have been contracted, which have gone into realisation, so 13 that are currently being built with the ultimate goal of opening jobs over 2000, will definitely be achieved. And there was a speech here, and it seems to me that a colleague of Mrak-Taritash mentioned state property, is just one of the examples of how the state property is activated. In 2011, this industrial zone, or ugly Bakar, received a donation of 260 000 m2 of land from the Republic of Croatia. Only with these investments in less than 4 years, that land of 260,000 squares has been activated, but also additional new land purchased from private owners, so residents living in the area after the construction of land books, 528 343 m2 of land has been activated with this target target of over 2,000 jobs. The data is exact and what is best said, which and what investments are about, which is 2/3 of these withdrawn funds exactly production activities. I am often angry with those who in some way call trade and the trade sector. My logic, my associate, and the space where these investments are going is that someone has to produce something somewhere, something has to be stored somewhere, and something has to be translated somewhere, and then something has to be sold somewhere. So the set of all these economic activities in one package means and generates development. The ultimate goal of all of this, again we can argue and prove it there in 2005 was the original budget of 15 million kuna, after all these realised projects, is now over 1000 million kuna. I'm saying this for a reason because I know this situation well, but it's a similar situation as we saw in the presentation of the State Secretary in Varazdin County, which, according to this data, has withdrawn the most funds. A similar situation in many other cities and municipalities and we can pass here a law of whatever, can be best thought, best designed, if someone has no activity in the base, so by synergy of cities, municipalities, in all areas with peak and power in the Republic we will not get the results that we have previously drawn. At the end of this presentation here, I really invite you all, you've seen the material, you've heard this exhibit. These amendments and additions to the law are useful, very good and I don't think any of us should be here, regardless of whether they are in opposition or position, have doubts that such amendments to the law should not be supported. And finally, to mention one more thing, since the legislator was preparing these amendments and supplementing the law at the time when it was not known about this situation of earthquake in Sisak-Moslavina County, when they did not know the scale of everything that was going to happen there, and probably for this reason it was not included in this proposal amending and supplementing the law, here is my suggestion and my suggestion that in some way the Ministry and Government are dealing with this issue because the economy, the development of the economy, the jobs, all those investments that are being made through this construction, because it is not only this workplace at the moment when the project is realized, but it is also that job that the project was realised by the project itself, by the contractors themselves, of all those many co-opers, of the suppliers of the various materials, of logistics and all that was previously needed to implement any project. After the construction of the project, we are just coming to the crown of everything we wanted to achieve, which is a job that will allow our citizens both a job and a stable salary and better living conditions, thus also the rise of the budget of units of local self-government, communal fees, cuts, taxes and all that belongs to the Republic of Croatia. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32773	Thank you, too. We are now going to discuss SDP's Club of Representatives, a respected colleague, Siniša Hajdas Doncic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32774	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. My colleagues and colleagues. So, the issue of the economy, investment is one of the most important issues of survival, both states and regions, cities, municipalities of the population living in the area. It's hard, of course, to encourage the economy exclusively by acts of normative acts, paper, if there isn't something called I'm going to say industrial or entrepreneurial miles from Marshall, I'm not thinking about Tito here, but I'm thinking about Alfred Marshall to Porter and about creating certain, let's call it inclusive clusters that include both educational communities and some kind of born entrepreneurial note that must exist. So we definitely have to avoid something that's also called desert cathedrals, so when you invest regionally in certain production projects or production plants, which you actually fail in a few years, there's no such thing. Business miles. Now, some EU countries, of course, are trying through a covid pandemic to make all those who wanted to invest, so they were a little bit like they would say post-point would actually want to postpone the investment, so 40 percent of them are paying against the investment just to make the investment go away, precisely because of the covid. On the other hand, we have a great deal of concern, I hope in Croatia, probably for small and medium-sized companies for SMI who are likely to "economicly fascillate" in this pandemic, and yet all the debates are still being discussed, and... we share the water market around the rescue of these companies. Now we have a law here that is solid, here it is solid and should be an additional incentive to realise already started investment projects, I read "planning the opening of new jobs related to projects and investments, preserving the material basis of realised projects and investments in the Republic of Croatia". Through a public hearing I noticed that only I think that the association in tourism two remarks had as to... Well, the same can be discussed, we can agree or disagree, but that can even make your explanation go away, it's not what we say now epochally. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But all this, like I say, is good and it's good on paper. I would still expand my debate a little, so I would focus on these smaller and medium-sized smaller companies. If we look at the EU, there are 24 million small and medium-sized enterprises, if we look at and compare again, we do more than half of the GDP correlation generate GDP, which means that we as Croatia, and also the EU has to focus a little more on helping, I will say in this sector. So, not only this law, so we should coordinate here to give some concrete solutions, so we should coordinate the Small and Medium-sized Enterprises Strategy with the Croatian Industrial Strategy, the European Green Agreement, to see how we can help them transition towards digital green Europe. Small and medium-sized enterprises are actually crucial to competitiveness, for industrial ecosystems, and I will say about economic and technological sovereignty, so sovereignty is economic and technological, which is very important in the idea of a nation of the 21st century. Of course she should be more resistant to external shocks. If we look at the sectors most affected again, let us call them sectors, so also tourism and hospitality and culture and creativity and transport, English events, Croatian fairs and events, again small and medium-sized enterprises, they definitely need less red tape because in the analysis of Europe Chambers' business research for 2019-2020, these administrative complex administrative procedures represent the main challenge for over 78% of this particular SMI. Therefore, a step further should be taken, focusing on innovation in market access to investment for innovation for the development of pilot initiatives, for the development of solutions that include and trade because some business models we all notice are developing through digital platforms, and in fact they need institutional support precisely for innovation and for this maximisation of synergy. Maybe we should do more, I know we don't now, but we should think a little bit that maybe more in the next amendments to the law could be higher points and rewarding, say, activity in the data economy, so that both this artificial intelligence, the smart product, and see what is actually the possibility of connecting the SMI to a large business creation. Why? So, according to all the data, Croatia has a mobility problem, so under mobility I am not talking about road construction and railways it is not mobility we need to talk about production factors. So,.../The speaker speaks in a foreign language./... and therefore the factors, these factors are key to potential growth and are the only key to the source of sustainable Croatian growth. We are, unfortunately, according to data and the World Bank in the last 15 years, growing what is marginally, marginally or borderally, so we are not growing, and our rate is how much we mate with the countries of Central and Southeast Europe are actually at the lowest, lowest levels again. So our TPF level or that total productivity factor is only 5% higher today than it was in 2002. Now, of course, it's hard to recognize through this law that would actually be the triggers, so it's only necessary to approach them very, very carefully but so far, so to say the empirical literature points to a few key things. These are, in fact, investments of labour and capital in the manufacturing process, which is why, in part, this law respects you. The innovative capacity of the domestic economy and again what I keep mentioning institutions, inclusive institutions. So that's the key. In Croatia, both companies and capital and human resources still face significant restrictions on mobility, thus limiting the entry of state control levels, resolution of insolvency, access to credits, etc. Now the key question about this law, whether it will fully enable investment in the industry of high additional value for innovation development, therefore we have not progressed again unfortunately and have not achieved our goal, which was declared to us in 2020, has also been cut off by Poland, Slovakia, Hungary and Lithuania, which, when the measurements began, were lagging behind in that component for Croatia. And yet, if we follow that sector of goods exports, of course, we are saved by tourism and tourism consumption as invisible exports, but without actually raising the segment of goods exports and raising the total, total components of goods exports to GDP, we will not be able to engage in not only European global chains, but even global ones. I think it is for the Croatian economy.../incomprehensible/... to enter into the integration of so-called .../incomprehensible/... in channels, chains. Now, despite the improvements, so we admit that there are improvements in the pyre data that are still in the structure of exports, unfortunately we are still low. And now one of my questions for the end, and we, as the SDP Club, will support this law. Is this money that you've predicted 29 million for 2021, 39 million kuna for 2022 and 49 million kuna for 2023, is that actually enough, is that enough? Here's one question, you don't need to answer me now you can in the final debate. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32775	Let's move on with the debate. Now it is the House Movement Representatives' Club and respected colleague Vesna Vucilović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32776	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Respected State Secretarys with Associates, colleagues and colleagues, amendments and additions to the Investment Encouragement Act in principle only add measures such as the esteemed State Secretary for Helping Entrepreneurs in this Covid Crisis, but here I am also going to look a little bit at the law itself which de facto aimed at strengthening the productivity of economic operators in the Republic through automation, roboticisation, digitalisation of production processes and precisely in the manufacturing processing industry that I love to talk about and always mention because without strong industry there is no strong economy and that is simply a fact that is not too much and should not be debated. What are the main objectives? They've already been led by their colleague, Dark Taritash. I will look at the 2 objectives of this law, and one was in principle to increase the competitiveness of Croatia's economy and attractiveness as an investment destination, and the other was to reduce these regional inequalities when we look at the level of economic development. So we've already had this law for several years, and before it we had a law last October on the promotion of investment and the improvement of the investment environment. So we could say that the Republic of Croatia has been working very intensively for many years to become a very attractive destination for investors. But yet Croatia is still in that ABC category that already taught them all Anything but Croatia, our rating is still non-investmental. Our investors bypass a wide port, although they invest in both Hungary and Slovenia and Serbia, and they are not in Croatia. We have to ask ourselves why investors act like that? Although we've heard that support is generous, we have laws, we've created a legal framework, and they're still gone. Some say, and here I am among them that in principle this large number of parafiscal charges, various administrative fees, the gaps they face in Croatia are a fact that is an obstacle that investors do not like too much. This is essentially recognized by the Ministry of Economy because if you look at strategic documents then you plan to reduce the number of parafiscal duties to 150 by 2022, there are many of these goals that need to be resolved and the basis of this law, but we have seen how the parafiscal intrusion is defended in the case of the HGK, and I am afraid that the opposition would be called to propose a suspension of the cost of printing results and mailing as well as a very important parafiscal imposition. The second goal that should be implemented by implementing this law is to help intensify economic activity in less developed areas, and I find it particularly interesting because I come from Slavonia, unfortunately, Slavonia is not among the developed areas, she is where she is. And we see that the largest number of support users in the City of Zagreb is almost 19%, and then in Zagreb County 10%, Varazdinskoga 7.2%, and I have to ask the question, do we have any new classifications that are unknown to us, so the City of Zagreb is an undeveloped area? As far as I know, it's not based on an existing classification, and 19% of the users are right there. And then we have to kind of imagine, we have a good law again, a good legal framework, whether it's a sublegal act, how that good goal got lost somewhere, obviously we have a certain implementation that's questionable efficiency. As far as our economy is dependent on tourism, we heard countless times, the colleague Zekanovic also spoke about it, but I personally think that at one point we must start to reduce that dependence on our economy on tourism, the decline in tourism was 50% last year, and here is the data from the State Statistics Office industry dropped some 3 points, a little over 3%, so 3.4%. There are certain differences, so goods exports last year, in fact in the first nine months there were some 80 billion kunas, so some have worked despite the covid crisis, despite these difficult circumstances in which we are. We record one significant industrial development, only in the '50s and '70s, from the '50s to the '70s, and since then, there has been a decline, especially in the processing industry, which is in principle the backbone of our goods exports, and it has an extremely strong share in GDP, and I think it must definitely be the main strategic point, mainly the food industry that has a significant impact on the economy as a whole, and of course not only on the economy but also on the safety and supply of the population with food, which this covid crisis has certainly made known and demonstrated. We have a huge productivity-lifting space here because our companies invest in research and development in innovation of some 0.13% while in the EU the average is 0.23%, and private companies invest as much as 0.5% in research and development, and we have seen that this is one of the objectives of this law. Well, it would be convenient to see perhaps some analysis into which activities were being invested, encouraged, and did we do something to make this productivity more productive after all? Because here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to put you down a little bit, so we're behind when the food processing industry is compared to other EU countries. In 2017, according to data published by the European Commission, we were somewhere at 51% of the EU average, and Denmark, Germany, the Netherlands, Italy, Austria, which are the largest food exporters in Croatia are making twice as much productivity, in Austria and the Netherlands even triple that of Croatia. So we are on the internal common market where our companies are exposed to the huge competition of European countries and the fact is that we are doing our best, we are recording extremely large imports of food products, we are not self-sufficient, and I must stress that there is one very large space for increasing productivity and for growing precisely in the food processing sector, and through these promotion measures is covered by the number of projects. I say once again, here's my question went in this direction to see how we stand here when we look at regionally, when we look at 5 Slavonian counties, the Osijek-Baranja County where I come from, how many projects there are, did we do something because the fact is that we haven't raised the competitiveness of the Republic of Croatia, we haven't reduced the differences in development, unemployment has fallen in those good years, but unfortunately more due to emigration than because of this law, so often come to the benches of laws that change according to certain directives, rules and regulations that come from the EU. But if we see that for many years now, so since 2012, we have a legal framework that encourages investment, and we haven't achieved what we've drawn up, then let's once say it's wrong, let's change what we've done wrong, which is wrong in the whole story, whether the problem is law, sublaws, goals we haven't achieved, and sometimes we should change the laws because we see that something is wrong, not just because we have certain, certain cracks and changes from the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32777	The next debate is on behalf of the HNS Representatives' Club in independent MPs, the esteemed representative Predrag Štromar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32778	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We have colleagues and colleagues today before us the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and the Completion of the Law on the Encouragement of Investments with the final draft of the law. This current legal framework is in line with the EU's latest provisions and introduces 3 additional incentive measures to help the economy affected by the difficulties caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, which are presented to us in detail by the proposing representatives. In this way, the Government and the Resort Ministry seek to update the matter in a timely manner standardized by this extremely important and useful law. I remind you that the Investment Encouragement Act significantly contributes to the development of strategic and economic projects because it guarantees a greater return to investment for investors, i.e. reduces the risk of investment itself. The incentives provided for by this law directly contribute to the competitiveness of the domestic industry as they attract investments that are a key driver for growth and business sector development. It is also important to note that this law carries with it significant social consequences, as they encourage the creation of new jobs and further education of employees in the use of modern technologies, and in the midst of more efficient availability of territorial resources, a balanced development of the Republic of Croatia is achieved. The Investment Encouragement Act has become an important part of the Croatian entrepreneurship daily, especially for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, although the number of applications for the use of support is too heavy, as is evident from the structure of the presented statistical indicators of the application of the law to the category of small and medium-sized enterprises, we see that in the same material scope, users of potential measures and large companies. Since large enterprises are usually excluded from the European grant tender, they are aimed at seeking other financial instruments to help boost their further growth and co-finance the costs of new employees and their business development. It is precisely this law that facilitates this search because it gives large businesses the opportunity to obtain the status of the promoter and, with the treatment, almost identical to those that respect small businesses. However, it should be pointed out that users support self-absorbing and the significance of the obligation. This allows entrepreneurs to hear a number of well-founded proposals on the acceleration, simplification and modernisation of the whole administrative process, and I hope that in the resolution ministry there will be sufficient understanding that these reasoned remarks will be examined and installed in some future normative solutions. We are all deeply aware of the painful fact that our entrepreneurs with an earthquake in affected areas are not in the same life and business situation as entrepreneurs in the rest of Croatia. I believe that the legislator will also take special care of this emerging situation. Also, if there is a legal possibility of avoiding a conflict with existing state aid regulations, I suggest that a suggestion on the possible extension of the deadlines already proposed in this legal framework be considered as soon as possible. We continue to make recommendations to the ministry to get out or we'll get out of this pandemic very quickly, but our entrepreneurship will come out much weaker, much more wounded up and we need to prepare many other measures to help the economy live again and return to pre-pandemic times before the 3rd month of last year. I primarily think about aids and loans through HABOR institutions, HAMAG BICRO, speeding up all these processes because we see that huge demands but the capacities are not enough to respond quickly to all those and support, not only loans but also to support the economy and to open up with these funds that are waiting for us from the EU as far as possible to help our economies to employ new people, to give normal wages and to develop the economy. To agree on such conditions that credit or funds free of charge can be obtained very quickly, but still transparently and of course we must prepare all legal situations so that there is no abuse, but that does not mean to limit abuses that we need to complicate life for entrepreneurs. We simplify their lives because it is the economy that must bring Croatia back to its feet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32779	Thank you, too. Mr. Miro Bulj will now perform in front of the Club of Representatives of the Most.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32780	Thank you very much. State secretaries, colleagues and colleagues, this Regulation or the harmonisation of legislation with the EU, with regard to the promotion of investment with this supplement on the pandemic measure, is caused by this pandemic of the virus, I can only say that these statistical indicators transferred here on these incentives and investments I believe that reality is what we are about to accept. When we talk about the food processing industry, then we need to know that we are importing EUR 3 billion of food products, and that we have potential that we can very easily start building. In the creation of additional value and in the construction of infrastructure, i.e. entrepreneurship on the production of the food industry. It is unimaginable to me that currently in the Republic of Croatia we are the biggest importers, that these incentives which... well written here I can read all the measures, can statistics, but reality is different. We have the potential to eat through a common relationship with incentives and investments in agriculture which in the Republic of Croatia are simple and these incentives are questionable is it simply amazing that currently in the Republic of Croatia there have never been any incentives in agriculture and has never been less produced. We can start with any part of it, and we can connect it, for example. We have a problem that here Podravka requires a great many demands i.e. I am speaking as a strategic firm of the Republic of Croatia should not be of imports. Why? Because we have fields, we have equal Slavonia, we have other karst fields, but it is unfortunate that we have very poor use of European funds, because this law is essentially a harmonisation with the EU, we are at the bottom of the EU at the withdrawal of funds, we have only 0.5 irrigated fields where we could strengthen the food industry and additional value so as to strengthen the village as well as the food industry. Not that we from Hungary are importing carrots and other re-promaterials for our food industry, and there is a key problem. There's a key problem that we don't use our potentials and resources. I repeat, 0.5 out of a million-and-a-half hectares of agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia are half irrigated. It means that we have the potentials that we offer, but since we have entered the EU instead of strengthening our agricultural production and thus strengthening food production because it is mainly based on our resources, we are doing nothing here. We have huge production potentials, i.e. By encouraging other industries, we also have drinking water that we don't know how to protect. They appeared on the market and who in what way is mastering themselves, I know that the source of Cetina is given for the filling room 5,000 kuna per month, literally one less family economy that has two to three cows more water pay than the concessionaire pays for that huge profit on water, and you know that water is more potential and resources than hydrocarbons, appears in the perspective of the future, drinking water I speak. So we're not using these possible investments and investments best, it's now the government's decision issue, here's what I'm saying now that it wouldn't have been me attacking the government of Andrej Plenkovic, this was made during Zoran Milanovic's government concession on Cetina, I think 37 seconds were being discussed, so it's not even the question that I'm attacking someone, but we're not using our potentials. We have a shipbuilding that was an export branch where the triba invest and encourage and use the instruments of incentives. You have the Brodotrogir case, where billions are invested for restructuring, for severances to solve excess workers, but neither has anything been solved in fact is one thing left to make ships, that Končar buys hotels, and those who worked ships make hotels for him and don't receive wages. So I know, say, when the Shkver was working in full shape, then there were 60 buses from the Cetina region of Zagora for the shipyard. Today, two semi-vans go half-empty, so that's our potential, and there's been incentives, but is spent purposefully not intended and how this was managed every year is witnessed by the State Audit where it clearly says that the money that was meant to be a dedicated investment in shipbuilding is not invested. So we have opportunities, look, we have time to build the highway, so Zagreb-Split, when Željezara Splitska falls, when we have the possibility of installing this viaduct, the tunnel as much as it was done, the gram of iron, the kilo of one from Croatia was not invested, and then it was fashionable, then the collection of metal raw materials as waste was collected and sent to other countries, there was processed other products, ours were buying out here. So we don't use our potentials and resources, we don't use them, and investment and entrepreneurs can't look at this moment just through the prism, the crown of the crisis has exposed all the problems, it's exposed, so she's nakeded the policy we're not self-sufficient by anything, the businessmen and entrepreneurs in trouble. I am speaking here you have now mentioned the tourist activities that are in trouble because of the crown crisis and who knows what will happen. We hope it won't be a problem. But people have invested their money and invested, whether they're renters, whether they have restaurants or any other activity, and they hire people. At this point, there is no stronger measure, with all of what we are copying this and these measures that are listed here plus this one because of the covid crisis, the harmonisation with European legislation, if we do not make this measure made by Slovenia, this is not populism, meaning a moratorium on interest and credit because banks are solvent, banks have money, banks in Croatia have huge profits and entrepreneurs, hosts in any activity are entrepreneurs in the problem, and mainly now. In addition, our entrepreneurs are burdened to create additional value, which tribunes every job mainly in undeveloped areas, we instead of dissipating in undeveloped areas in five years moratorium on all givings, let alone off-tax givings, 500 of them, HKG, these, they, they can't count how many there are, to relieve them all in undeveloped areas, so that they can come, that they can be competitive in these places, we put nooses around their necks. Here's an example, if the problem is in the Cetina region and Cetina produces 40% of the hydroenergy in Croatia, the Cetina River, why did entrepreneurs in this area even pay for 5 years of electricity? Because here it is much cheaper in Zagreb, much closer to the market, much more labour force, or in Drnis, no matter now, I now speak, speak generally or in Knin, it is not important, why in this area even entrepreneurs, and also households are not cheaper electricity because there are alternative more fuels here in Zagreb and it is not only Zagreb Croatia, it is the capital, it is the center of Croatia, but Slavonia is our flat. So entrepreneurs in order to be competitive, this is the topic behind, so we need to arrange these public procurements, to be much more transparent, not to be brought into Slovenia 9, in clubs from different bosses, agencies, JANAF, what not to keep that competition, and especially in underdeveloped areas, we are disbursing. What's important is that mystique, that people come back, or that they stay in that myst. Workplace, if a man doesn't have a desk in Vrlica, Kiev, Sinj, in the back, in Trill, in Slavonia, he'll go. It is important that children's kindergarten is free, the textbooks are important free of charge, these are important incentives in these areas, other countries do not want to live, but entrepreneurs and workers must be relieved 100% at least for 5 years in order to bring us back to life, breathe the breath of life in these forgotten areas because it is not only Zagreb Croatia, and these 2/3 Croatia are Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32781	Thank you. We're moving on to individual discussions. She's Mrs. First. Anka Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32782	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of HS, the esteemed State Secretary with an associate. I'm going to have this sort of individual discussion, as I always have to say or somehow structure it on three subjects. One topic is state property, right where I stood on behalf of the club, another topic is related to the Green European Plan or the Green Plan which was and what, which is the potential and third topic of people and the day after. So when it comes to property, what I said, imagine someone coming to Croatia now and saying I want to build a toy factory. And I want to hire 1,000 people, tell me where the state, where you have as a country, where the spatial plan planned, what would you say? We'd get our shoulders off. I was one of those when it decided to have a special department of property that I said it was good, that in this way the state was sending a message that it really wanted to deal with its assets, but the result of those ministries of property and the result of what we have today is unfortunately the same again. As much as the Republic of Croatia's assets have, that's the first question. Let's see where the list of assets is. The second question is whether property legal issues and the third question that is intended to be settled there. One of the elements that could be the trigger, if it's just one, I don't dare say it, but it's a communal fee. So today, if you have abandoned properties, no matter who owns it and you don't have them in function, you're paying a much smaller communal fee than that in function. At the same time, primarily, when it comes to the sea and tourist zones, there are roads that local self-government units need to maintain, there is some infrastructure, imagine that a public fee is paid as if it were in function, everyone would be interested in putting into office. It's one of the things you really need to think about and really see as an element because it's some potential. I'm always about for the skipped parts of the city, for abandoned parts, abandoned parts that are connected to some industry to function and, and then behind that some green surface because green areas can be our advantage, not our fault. We're coming up with the Green Plan, which, by the way, is Mrs. Crescent's. Ursula von der Leyen went into his own general management and everything else. It's an opportunity for Croatia. I'm always trying to get some other stuff to point out, you know. Once upon a time, there's this many years it's been read green in a way, we're going to paint the pillars of the power lines green and it's really been, you know. In the national park, one of our oldest National Parks Plitvice Lakes was a provision planned that all pillars of the power lines must be painted green. That's not it. So, these are some new technologies, some new occupations that are related to agriculture, using all possible resources, we're really in the crown theme, I'm not going to agree, every time I repeat it from this pay phone, this isn't normal to me, this is absolutely abnormal to me, every time I see announcements that it's going to take another half a year, year or not to know how much, I freeze, from the history of life teachers. Out of trouble you have to create an opportunity, I also talk about the earthquake, regardless of whether I'm talking about an earthquake in the city of Zagreb or an earthquake in the area of Bania/Banovina, I'm talking about creating an opportunity. One excellent example, concreteists can use that brick and all that material of construction that has been destroyed and that will be destroyed, the concrete factory can be converted with one technology to be the result of this as a new construction product that you can install as a prefabricated plant into new houses or buildings. It's a great topic for me, it's great for the Ministry of Economy that those who do this get incentives, they get or some kind of green stamp. Who has done this in other conditions? Austria. So why don't we just overwrite things if we don't know? That's one thing we can say, let's see how you are, so let's go, all those rubles today that you see somewhere in the city of Zagreb are the result of recycling construction material. It's one of the activities that you can now do in Banovina and Banovina, but if you don't have people, of course, you're not here to talk about it anymore, there's no economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32783	Time. Thank you. Replica, Mr. Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32784	Dear colleagues, I agree with you that the green economy, the Green Plan, the green economy is not at all how we experience it. I have had the opportunity to listen in other European countries to how many jobs they associate with potential energy savings, which we don't even think about at all, we don't even move tariffs in electricity consumption, we keep them confused, so we don't motivate people to save, and savings is one part of the green economy, and that's one big part. And as for real estate, yes, you're right, regardless of ownership, if you don't go one way, so brother turn the saw upside down, but those are dead capitals that can't stand in one serious state, they have to, they have to turn around, the worst thing is that something is being destroyed, abandoned and out of each function.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32785	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32786	Thank you very much, colleague Hrelja. So I'm going to refer to this first, first part of your replica, climate change is a fact. You shouldn't be very smart, you shouldn't be a great expert, you shouldn't have analysis and everything else, turn around and see. So we're lost, we're in this continental part of having two seasons. The only person who somehow thought it wasn't a fact at the world level was Mr. Trump, who was absolutely connected to climate change, and he was, like some other things were nonsense to him, and it was stupid to him. That's right, and it ended the way he ended up. So climate change is a fact, you from climate change actually read the Green Plan, you read some new jobs from the Green Plan. In the early 2000s, I read a book that was written, it's about architecture, it has nothing to do with this, that all jobs will be done from home. I thought I don't care, it'll be, I won't work anymore. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It's not like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32787	Thank you very much. Mr. Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32788	Dear MPs, a long time ago, when we still had a young state, when the State Office for State Property Management was stationed in Ilica with the Office of Internetization, it was there in '90. And some years, there really was a great desire to write down the entire state property and put it in some sort of order, to know who's running it, what way, who owns it and what percentage. It happened that when it started in the information project, it actually turned out that a large part of the state's property actually wasn't entirely owned by the state, but that there were co-owners and local self-government and public enterprises, and it hadn't been cleaned up and cleared up by today, and that would be a great incentive for our entrepreneurs to access it from that property, that they could buy it, that they could rent it and that they could manage it afterwards. That would be far more than giving them money.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32789	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32790	Thank you very much. So it's not in vain for us to talk about state property. It is not in vain to warn about it all the time, but I must admit that I no longer know I am angry or even frustrated in one part, every 2.3 years read a strategy, read something, and there read state property should be put into operation, which is where we of course read the potentials of abandoned military spaces, which were once marked white in the spatial plan, so they couldn't plan and the rest. Let's get you home, so you guys at home, each of us knows what he's got. He knows how to manage it. Why is the difference? Why doesn't the state want to know? I was here when I spoke on behalf of the club saying that we were even making the state, when it came to the spatial plan, take care of what was going to be on its property, planned, even though it wasn't an account. So don't tell me you can't sit down and solve the problem between State and local self-government units, if you will. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32791	- Mrs. Crescent. Vucijlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32792	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Mrak-Taritash, you have opened a very grateful topic. When Mate Rimac was looking for a hall for his new enterprise project, which is known to everyone, it's about a man who deals with these very new technologies. He visited all the ministries, the state administration, nowhere, billions invested in incubators, entrepreneurship zones, the halls for Matta Rimca, we didn't build an infrastructure for the industries that are already here, they're not coming, they're already here, and they've invested billions. No city, no village, no business zone or incubator. What's going on out there, what's going on, is now a question for someone else, but obviously we don't follow those trends, no matter what our strategies say otherwise.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32793	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32794	Thank you very much for your question. As I said before, sometimes some things really frustrating you. I must admit that I even found myself in situations where some investors came and asked, we would like to invest, let us know what to do, so not all investors are such as to experience Croatia as El Dorado. Some come and say, look, they'd like something, give us a hologram, and if I didn't say, you referred to one really example as we want, but we kind of, like the left doesn't know what the right hand is doing. I wonder if, so sit down at the same table, let's talk, let's see, if we have 3 of the same things in the denominator, let's see how we can do it, how we can't do it, we're experts here, we'll find 22 reasons why, why, why can't this, why can't it, but let's find one thing as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32795	Thank you. Mr. Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32796	Dear colleague Mrak Taritash, I agree very often with you, and so I agree with the Green Europe Syntagma, but this Green Europe is actually a vision of those who lead Europe what they want in their space, what they want in terms of energy, what they want in terms of development and what they want in terms of research is what is crucial. Europe wants to be one of the leaders in the future and is aware that it needs development. She wants to be self-sufficient and she knows she needs enough energy to do that. By saving energy, you reduce the need for energy. My key question is, if we know what Europe wants, do we know what or where we should be in that Europe because we are part of this Europe? We're not someone on the side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32797	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32798	Thank you very much. I am one of those who really does not miss the opportunity to say from this pay phone that it is my position and that it is good that we are a member of the EU, that it is much better to be in society of good, successful, advanced than to stay on the tail, regardless of Europe, there are much more good things than bad things. When we discussed the strategy for development of the Republic of Croatia by 2030, we asked a clear question of what we wanted and what kind of Croatia we want in 2050. What, what kind of country are we going to be, what are we going to develop, what is this going to be our key product? So if we decide it's tourism, what kind of tourism is it? Is that the pharmaceutical industry, what is it? That strategy didn't answer. So we all asked what it is and of course everything, when the debate on all these laws is we do not know to give that answer to the key question that Croatia wants in 2050.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32799	Thank you. And finally, Mr. Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32800	Dear counterpart Anka Mrak Taritas you have directed the debate I would say in the right direction, but not according to this ministry but to that other ministry but you have proved that the ministries are not cooperating. Namely, if we want to encourage investment until we have resolved the legal property situation normally not to work out and you said it well, and we often say from the IDS Club that exactly state property that was not used to transfer to local self-government units to make it happen faster and more efficiently right now. We have examples where units of local self-government are owners of land and there, regardless of those parafiscal burdens that economics have investments are happening. As soon as it appears on these plots, land owned by the state, whether through the Ministry of Agriculture, the Croatian Forests or the Ministry of State Property, a blockade arises. And I'll tell you why there's a blockade because they're afraid of being charged with adjudication, [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Not to encourage. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32801	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32802	Thank you very much for your question, colleague Demetlika. So if you don't do anything, you can't make a mistake. You don't do anything, you put all the problems, you list all these problems, but you don't start to solve them, and you can't make a mistake, and no one can do you after your term or anything, look at you and do it. You didn't do anything and you didn't do anything wrong. But there's no progress, there's no step forward, there's no step forward. So, would it make sense in a normal state that the state says I'm going to get rid of, I'm going to solve my property problem, this is perspective, this is inoperable to me, this is something I want to do with this. You have countless examples, you have an example where in a building in the City of Zagreb the state owns one business space 1/7 of that business space and with that business space you can't do anything, it stands. Why is it standing? Because it can't be solved if it can't be solved how we think he's gonna get rid of big things. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32803	Thanks, you don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mr. Named Brumnic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32804	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I will again rely on the debate held by my colleague Mrak Taritash, what kind of country we want in 2050. So we probably want a country of contented people, a country where all those who live here have achieved the maximum of their potential. And then you have to ask yourself how it's done? It's achieved by creating an environment. By creating what Europe has long understood. By establishing vision, goals, and then adjusting the legal procedure to achieve what has been outlined as a goal. And here I'll agree again with my colleague Mrak Taritash, it's good that we're a member of Europe, it's good to be around those who know where they're going, maybe take us somewhere. Now, as far as amending these laws are concerned. These amendments to the law are necessary yesterday we have concluded this on the board. Yesterday there was a discussion on the committee on the issue of extending the deadline, I don't know how the promoter reacted to it because this was the first and second reading whether you accepted it, but what also appears as a problem and we here opened the topic because of the Covid crisis because it was opened by Europe. We did not open a topic related to the earthquake that happened only with us, it did not happen in the rest of Europe and the measures that should be taken in this area to help. And when we create the circumstances that are within this law, I'll even say politely done as far as the Covid crisis is concerned, we haven't done anything else. We haven't done an analysis of the effects of the law so far, where if we had even started to work it then we'd realize that we'd forgotten something. If we had forgotten what I said today in my replica, the digitization of the process, that we had forgotten that, in order to submit one of the demands we need two, three, hundreds of tied papers, and even a thousand, all forms from OP-1 to OP-8 have to be imported and submitted to the ministry with a plan and complete documentation? What about the digital signature? We've got something in place. Are we using it? My question to the Ministry of Agriculture, there's this slogan called "Let's Keep Our Forests", does the Ministry of Economy really think we're guarding our forests by printing 1,000 papers that we could deliver by e-mail? And now just to look back on one more thing. In the presentation of both the secretary of state and the materials, we have clearly seen that large entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia open up 8,500 jobs on 14.9 billion spent while small entrepreneurs with 10 billion jobs, from which it would be easy to conclude that small entrepreneurship is actually much more expedient or much more adaptable to the processes that are happening on the market and that investment in them actually gives greater added value to the objectives that we have set ourselves. There he is, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32805	... - Mrs. Crescent. [[Last-on speaker]] Anka Dark-Taritash first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32806	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues, you and the Committee on Economy where we had a very good and interesting debate asked whether it could be said to last, so these measures will be double the duration of Covid-19, respectively. We have received the answer that this should be seen with the EU or with the commission to be seen. I expect some closing words that the secretary of state will make a reference to that. But then two are opportunities to build it into the law. One possibility to be communicated and that I am a proponent in this sense must be given an amendment is the final proposal or that an amendment by your opposition or someone else is made. It seems to me that it would be wise, I think it would be wise to really get information about whether or not they're talking. Since there is no vote this week, if it is possible to build it into the law because it would be a message to entrepreneurs to take care of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32807	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32808	Thank you, colleagues, Mrak-Taritash. Yeah, I mentioned it in the board discussion yesterday. The secretary of state said she'd see if it was possible, and now I realized a few minutes ago that this was the first and second reading and that there was practically another half hour in which the amendment could be given. I'll make the amendment on that. I was expecting you to look back at yesterday's conversation and then say whether you accepted it or not, so you wouldn't have to write here right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32809	Mr. Stromar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32810	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow MP, you mentioned digitization and I'm sure we have a lot of room for great progress right now. We went very well last year at the beginning of the pandemic, a lot of things accelerated, the digitization started, we accelerated all the processes, we reduced the administration, we reduced the arrivals to the counters at all, but this would be real, and I think we need the ministries, especially the ministry in which the economy is much faster and more quality ahead of digitization. If we can open up the company today from our chair only through the computer needs to get as much power into digitization as possible so that we can really speed up all these processes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32811	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32812	Dear fellow Stromar, you who belong to the ruling majority here praise something that has not been made. If I had time, I'd tell that joke about taking over and taking over three envelopes, but there's no time or you probably know him. How well digitisation is shown is an example of the incentives we give to digitise society, to introduce technology 4.0 where we cannot hand it over in electronic form in the ministry to which we are handing it over. Here's what I'm really calling the secretary of state, and I don't think it's some big problem that anything that can be handed over in a bound and printed in 1000 paper can be delivered by e-mail or by a CD, I say we have the Ministry of Agriculture that says, "Let's keep our forests," and then the Ministry of Economy cuts those woods to make paper.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32813	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. It's Mr. Branko Bačić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32814	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the esteemed secretary of state with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues. The amendments to the Investment Encouragement Act that we are discussing today relate to measures which have already been put into effect during the debate, the debate that has already been debated, and we will clearly support the measures that will enable entrepreneurs who have become entrepreneurs in difficulty after the Covid-19 epidemic or the Covid-19 pandemic has affected the world and, above all, Croatia to enable them with the measures provided for by these amendments to the law to make their business easier and simpler. And that's where I believe, and that's what I've heard, probably all the clubs will support these kind of changes to the law. What I would like to single out is to mention the other measures that we have taken during this time since the Covid-19 pandemic started in Croatia and which in total are about 11 billion kunas, which are directed towards 110 000 entrepreneurs and which are related to the preservation of over 600,000 jobs. These measures are primarily aimed at preserving jobs, on the other hand preserving liquidity and preserving the business activities of individual entrepreneurs in Croatia that have been hit by this crisis so far in the world. Since I come from Dubrovnik-Neretva County, when I am already talking about this amount, then I would like to say that for my county, this amount is being drawn up somewhere at almost 400 million kuna for 4500 entrepreneurs and for 18 500 jobs, each other's job in my county is covered by these measures, which speaks enough about the care of the government of the Republic of Croatia and towards that county and towards the economy but also towards the economy of Croatia. I remember that at the beginning of the crisis we listened to catastrophic data about how much and how this crisis would destroy jobs in Croatia, there was talk that we would climb to a level of 400,000 jobs. I looked at the number of unemployed today in a similar debate these days, so somewhere in early February around 163,000 were then unemployed, so when we compare it to 2019 because in 2020 it was already marked in a certain way at the beginning of the pandemic, then it was 8,000 jobs difference, so 8000 jobs are more, so 8000 unemployed today than it was in the comparable period before the crisis itself and before the pandemic itself. So I think that the government has indeed made the most of these measures and exposed itself to the state budget, when it comes to support for the economy, above all to the real sector. What I would and always say from this pay phone is when we talk about encouraging investment. Encouragement of investment involves several regulated sectors in Croatian society and in the state, primarily referring to a stable tax system. I believe that through these four rounds of tax reforms, this tax system has stabilised and is changing it for the better and the favourite entrepreneurs and citizens. So we can talk about this kind of peaceful, secure, stable tax system that does not change significantly. Another important item for investment in a particular country is the arranged property-legal relations across the entire area of real estate where these investments are normally held. We haven't exactly shown ourselves in 30 years of the Croatian state, and we need more effort, and that is one of the biggest challenges to be able to boost investment. A third important assumption, it's a coverage, a networkwork made of spatial planning documentation. I believe that almost entirely, in large part, we covered the state with appropriate spatial plans, we expect a fundamental plan now that we have foreseen, this is a plan for the spatial development of the Republic of Croatia and then clearly at the levels of cities and municipalities to adopt urban planning. And the fourth thing that seems to me to be also solved or in the process, we are now bringing the National Strategy for the Development of the Republic of Croatia, which would show the vision of Croatia's development, which then clearly tells us what activities and what economy we would encourage. Therefore, I don't have much more time, but I think these are basic settings to develop the state and encourage investment. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32815	... You have a series of replicas so you'll be able to reach out. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] - Mrs. Crescent. Dalia Oreshkovic, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32816	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Bačić, of your 10 minutes, you have only been talking in the last 2 minutes about a subject that is related to the promotion of investment. When you said which four key sectors should be arranged for this law to actually serve its purpose. And it's actually sad when you said that, in 30 years, we haven't taken care of property-legal relations that much more than you've done in those 30 years, that's exactly what I mean by HDZ, you've had a chance to get the state in line and you haven't. Also when we talk about the tax system, about its simplicity, about its practicality, it should be kept in mind that you reject all proposals coming from the opposition lines, which are going to make our economies and citizens disintegrate. And when we talk about spatial planning documentation, as long as in Croatia we have processes such as cursing and others where spatial plans are adapted to local powers and management of state and public property is non-transparent, any form of investment promotion actually promotes the private benefit of HDZ listeners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32817	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32818	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Oreshkovic, first of all you missed, I didn't speak for 10 minutes, but 5. So, no, obviously you were impressed by my exposure when you determined that it was 10 minutes. As for what you said, I don't know how you denied what I was going to say, I was saying that a country that has an intention of attracting investment must have four, by me, those four essential pillars, the starting points, so that a single entrepreneur would come to the state and invest there. And I think I have said from these four points that Croatia has done very much in 3 parts and when it comes to the tax system, and when it comes to spatial planning documentation and when it comes to the vision of the state's development. I was talking about the need to further regulate property-legal relations And I think it's just a challenge, and I don't know what you're really replicating to me except for what you wanted to take your word for it. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32819	Mr. Begonja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32820	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague of Bačić, regardless of the proposal to amend this current law, so on encouraging investment that gives further contribution to helping entrepreneurs, it is important to point out once again all the measures that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has taken at this pandemic time to help entrepreneurs in particular from the aspect of tax policy and also in order to preserve jobs, so please refer to your review.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32821	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32822	Thank you. My colleague Begonj, so in one part, I was talking about measures that have been implemented so far in Croatia, and then I clearly pointed out in the introduction these measures which will also enable these changes to help entrepreneurs who are in difficulty or in difficulty, given the crisis that has affected us. Yes, I think it was taking care of all the restaurants, all the economics, especially those whose decision made it impossible for the government to work,... early or late of the year when there was a second closure of Croatia then we took measures to make it possible, in addition to the existing measures, to cover, for example, fixed costs, directorial costs in addition to those relating to support from 4,000 kuna per worker plus the exemption from giving As well as support measures to reduce working hours. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32823	Thank you. Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32824	Thank you very much. My colleague Bačić, I will not speak as a colleague to whom we are constantly guilty, and she is not responsible for anything but I will complete you in your debate because you clearly detected four basic things when we talk about what we say is waiting through the last area that you spoke of strategy and what we did so entrepreneurs today could function in this crisis. And you were a local leader, and I am, and we know what we're doing to make it work, really this moment that you're talking about property relations and the relationship of state and local self-government, but then the relationship with all entrepreneurs is something that we have to deal with, and it's urgent, and I hope we understand it in the Ministry of Economy, but also all the others who need to do it to really facilitate the possibility of investing, especially in areas that are also assisted areas. We see now what happened to us in one assisted area and of course the government, the state, always have a moment when I can do it. And what you said was up to us, I think we'll show in the next few years.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32825	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32826	Thank you. As head of the local self-government unit, you know best what are the recommendations for investors in the Rab area and your municipality when it is intended to build something, whether it is a greenfield or a brownfield investment. So first of all it's necessary to settle property relations. In fact, often a small particle, a small tiny area, makes investments of 10, 15, 20m euros impossible. This is thanks to the fact that it has not been for many years that a quality state geodetic measurement has not been done, and from this pay phone I have called and I expect what I have already said and that the Government here in the Parliament is sending one development strategy or new geodetic measurements that would allow a number of local self-government leaders, as well as all public companies to develop any project more quickly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32827	Thank you. Mr. Charic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32828	Dear Vice President, dear colleague Bacic. I agree with your claim that, thanks to government measures, they managed to preserve jobs and in Slavonia in my Vukovar-Srijem County. But here is one small comment only to colleague Oreshkovic on this adoption of spatial plans as it is not all transparent, as it is to read some procedures etc. The law stipulates that the adoption of spatial plans is a very complex, serious procedure that is very transparent which passes a public debate where all stakeholders of citizens can participate, can make remarks, can make proposals. And it's not correct to speak in public like this in a way that we who work in local self-government can right now deny from any political party that it's not like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32829	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32830	I thank my colleague, Saric. It was a long time ago when I spoke to the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction, it seems to me that more than 6,000 spatial plans are in place in Croatia. The procedure is huge, long from the first time the spatial plan of Croatia or the spatial arrangement programme of Croatia is defined, until after one implementation of the plan. And not a single mistrial can cast a shadow on a very large number of processes that take place in local self-government units, so if you want in that case she mentioned, I've never heard that there is a completed epilogue, a court epilogue. Therefore, in this way, I think it is inappropriate to say that the more the shadow is cast on numerous mayors, mayors and city councils, the county parliaments, mayors who have conducted huge procedures and established a whole series of spatial plans in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32831	Thank you. Mrs. Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32832	Thank you very much, Vice President. In your debate, you spoke among other things about what the Government of the Republic of Croatia has done to help the economy and our entrepreneurs. These days we can listen and read that the European Parliament has been discussing the mechanism for recovery and pandemic resistance and that the Republic of Croatia should receive more than 9.6 billion euros from that amount almost 6 billion euros in grants. What is good to say is that our citizens know the condition for withdrawing such funds is to ratify the decision on their own revenues of the EU budget, and exactly the Republic of Croatia is one of the first three countries to do so. I believe that these funds will also make a significant contribution to helping both economies and potential investors and investment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32833	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32834	I'd like to thank my colleagues, Juričev Martinchev. We remember both you and I when in December, I think that it was even at an extraordinary session of the Parliament, discussed the document, so the definition of the national component for financing the recovery and resilience programmes, and then we argued about one of the most important documents, very little opposition was included in the debate, it wasn't even here in the assembly itself, and this document that we brought in allows for the financing of a number of projects. At this point, great activities are being carried out at the government level on the completion of the programme, perhaps much more could be said by Mrs. State Secretary, but in any case, we expect that this proposal should be drawn up as soon as possible so that it can be adopted and how it can start withdrawing funds and allow a number of Croatian economies to use this very generous financial document.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32835	Thank you. And in the end, Mr. Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32836	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Bačić, I absolutely agree with you and your observation of these preconditions that you have stated to create favourable investment conditions. As a second condition, if I am not mistaken, you have listed the arrangements and arrangements of property-legal relations, and in part you would refer to it especially in view of what has actually been replicated by colleague Oreskovic. So right here you would mention one example. So precisely thanks to the government, the Ministry of Justice and Administration of the Republic of Croatia in the city of Varazdin after nearly 4 decades, the process of harmonising land books and catastra has been completed, which has actually provided the very basic principle of trust in land books and thus has actually met exactly one of the conditions that you have stated, which will certainly enable investors to be safe for potential investment. So, I don't think everything's as black as it is here that wants to be shown on this side all the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32837	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32838	Thank you, fellow Habian. I have listed four basic conditions that enable investment to be stimulated. Perhaps I should have mentioned legal certainty there, but I do not think that it contributes to that legal certainty in the country when a single body, a state body takes over all the powers not prescribed by law, so when it wrongly uses its powers of law and then the Croatian judiciary, the Croatian judicial authority assesses such proceedings by illegal and destroys such decisions by a single state body, in this case the Committee for Decision-making in the conflict of interest, then the Croatian judicial authority, the Croatian judiciary, and how it destroys one state body and the fact that the leaders of that body have taken power to which they do not belong, obviously much less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32839	Thank you, no more replicas, Mr. Bacic. And now it's Madam. Danica Baričević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32840	Thank you very much, Vice President. Respected secretary of state, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Thanks to the very provisions of this applicable law aimed at increasing direct domestic and foreign investment and increasing the competitiveness of the Croatian economy and continuing implementation and different investment-enhancing activities, investors could now benefit from grants and tax reliefs for their projects. Therefore, all investors who invest in manufacturing and processing development and innovation activities, business support and high value added services have been given different support and for most entrepreneurs are the most attractive tax reliefs, and in fact, we know in practice that paying lower rates or exemptions from paying profit taxes. So far, the implementation of the legislative framework to encourage investment has shown that, on the basis of the law which has been in force since October 2015 and the Law on investment promotion and improvement of the investment environment, which was in force from October 2012 to October 2020, as stated and we have also heard here that 1300 applications have been received for the use of precisely support for investment projects for small, medium and large entrepreneurs. The most registered entrepreneurs, we heard more times, were realized right in the city of Zagreb, then in Split-Dalmatia County, followed by Zagrebačka and Varazdinska. The fundamental issues that want to be regulated by the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Incentives of Lies are, in fact, directly linked to the mitigation of the consequences caused by the pandemic COVID and the pandemic of the Coronal Virus is a lagging health problem that is in our first place and we are aware that how much this pandemic has actually endangered both the entire European and the world economy. This proposal therefore introduces additional incentive measures to help the economy strongly affected by the effects of the COVID disease pandemic in 2020. So, we know how much difficulty it has brought and great uncertainty, especially the inability to plan over the past year, to amend and supplement the Investment Encouragement Act, among other things, will contribute to the precisely greater certainty of the implementation of planned investment costs, as well as the greater certainty of the creation of planned new jobs associated with the investment project. The aim of the proposal is to contribute to a greater certainty of the preservation of material and immaterial investment and the preservation of new jobs. These objectives will be achieved through investment support for entrepreneurs who were not in difficulty on 31 December 2019 but were in the first 6 months. In 2020, they became entrepreneurs in difficulty. Furthermore, investment support for projects whose three-year implementation period is within the period of initiation of the COVID-19 epidemic will allow for the extension of this three-year period of realization to one year. In the case of obligations to preserve jobs in the same and similar activities undertaken before 31 December 2019, loss of jobs in the same or similar activity that occurs between 1 January 2020 and 30 June 2021, in one of the facilities or projects of users in the common European economic area, it will not be considered to be a transfer within the meaning of the Investment Encouragement Act due to the COVID-19 disease epidemic. And to conclude, all the measures listed will significantly contribute not only to the survival of the economy in the difficult conditions of the pandemic, but also to the planning and realization of investment projects extremely important for economic development and the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32841	The first line has Mr. Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32842	Dear colleagues. You mentioned well, and you well quoted this data which refers to the most reported projects from the City of Zagreb, Split-Dalmatia County and all, but these data say something else, you probably missed it, and what is a wonderful indicator of what is happening in reality. We're talking about big and small entrepreneurs, the amount of investment in large and small and... job creation. Here we have information that a total of the large has been invested almost twice as much for less jobs than is invested in small ones and that is one indicator in which direction we should go further. So a lot of small businesses in the wider area of the Republic of Croatia with smaller resources generates more jobs which is good.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32843	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32844	That's how I thank her, Mr. Klaric. It's certainly true what you said, so these little ones don't start and generate a lot more and jobs and new jobs, and certainly these changes and additions of the law will contribute and realize tomorrow's bigger total planned investment costs and that they will all want to invest more and encourage. And the National Development Strategy of Croatia that we adopted here the other day on Friday we adopted it, and also discussed it is just talking about Croatia which is competitive, which is an innovative, secure country and recognizable identity and I believe that such small ones in our area will be much more and generate a lot more jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32845	Mr. Shimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32846	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear colleagues. Here's what you're talking about pandemics and all the bad stuff that's wearing the pandemic. It is not easy to live, especially working in such times of crisis. You said the government did a lot of things to save jobs and we heard from your exposure that people didn't actually lose their jobs. So I ask you as head of local self-government to give us some examples of good practice what the government has done well to preserve jobs in these times of crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32847	Thank you, too. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32848	Thank you very much, Mr. Rade, Your Honor. They certainly want this proposed law to mitigate the consequences of the direct epidemic of covid disease that we have said, but certainly the Government of the Republic of Croatia has done something in the very beginnings of the pandemic that other European countries have not, and that it has paid the workers and has provided them with the existence of the moment when they have lost their existence. So the state and the government of the Republic of Croatia headed with Andrej Plenkovic stood behind every worker and secured salaries for employees.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32849	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mr. Domagoj Price's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32850	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. The virus's coronary crisis has caused major economic damage to the world economy and the economy of Europe, as well as to Croatia's economy. Our business entities, our citizens and our families felt it on their backs. In addition, in Croatia we also have measures of headquarters that have often gone from extreme to extreme liberal approach to extremely strict approach. For this law on the promotion of investment, or the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Investment Encouragement Act, the Government would like to propose additional measures that could help the Croatian economy. Aid is needed, but measures must be timely, must be swift and must help the Croatian economy. So far, we have been able to learn from our citizens that the support was once delayed which has bad consequences for our citizens again, for business entities because in case they can't get support in time, if the support is late they can't pay their commitments and it creates additional problems for the Croatian economy, too, the question of whether the support is large enough. Business entities themselves, some fixed costs already well-set before the crisis themselves, must therefore follow their own size, follow the obligations of business entities themselves. As far as the measures themselves are concerned, the measures introduced in Croatia have been introduced in many other countries of the world, as well as in the countries of Europe, which is a positive response from the EU itself to the crisis. The EU has learned something in this crisis because this is not just a pandemic, this is also an economic crisis, learned from the one last crisis just over 10 years ago. What he learned learned learned to invest a large amount of money to solve the economic crisis, to get out of it. That's why all the things that were worth until this crisis, until this pandemic, are no longer worth it. Before the goal was to have a surplus or if there is already a deficit to reduce the deficit, the goal was, of course, to reduce public debt. As this crisis came, as the good part of the economy in lockdown logically was that it could not be considered more surpluses or low deficits, i.e. The resolution and reduction of the public debt issue, obviously it was necessary to create one stopper in the economy. So our problem at this point is not a public debt that is growing, a deficit which is an extremely high problem is now to preserve jobs. Unfortunately, there was a crisis, there was an increase in unemployment, there were hundreds of thousands of jobs being held with support and all that while the public debt was growing. So now we need those measures that will help the Croatian economy so much that the moment Croatia comes out of the economic crisis Croatia must be economically on its feet that we must fight what is to come and what is to come is once again a struggle with high public debt. So, from this crisis to get out, we don't just need support, we now have to start implementing reforms that will strengthen the Croatian economy so much that when the pandemic of the coronary virus ends to catch the stopper. We need them, we need tax discharge, we need the removal of parafiscal duties, we need faster judiciary, faster state administration, we need a normative discharge for the Croatian economy. That's all it takes to catch one stopper after the end means an epidemic of the coronary virus so that at that moment we can fight further the problems of high public debt that will then be a problem no. 1. As far as the support itself is concerned, I hope that all the support that the state makes will have to be timely, must arrive on time and must speed up and maintain the Croatian economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32851	Thank you very much. Mrs. Devereaux. Ban Vlahek's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32852	Dear colleague, I'm economically interested in your opinion what do you think is the long-term worst consequence of the crisis?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32853	So the worst consequences of the crisis can be growth in unemployment or public debt. At this point we see that, yes, we also see because of the great deficit that the state has that public debt is going to be the biggest problem. It is therefore important to implement reforms now, not only have the support that will now be in the short term, fire measures that will help the Croatian economy but also need to implement such reforms that Croatia will catch the stopper so that we can deal with the high public debt more easily. I think the public debt after this crisis will be, or after the coronary epidemic of the virus, the public debt will be a big, maybe the biggest problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32854	Mr. Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32855	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, I agree with your debate in the part that Europe reacted differently in this crisis than it did in 2008. And it is very important once again to say that it is good that Croatia is a full member of the EU would have otherwise solved its problems as a member of the EU and that you are not an EU member would have been completely different and contributions to bonds and investment policy, etc. What's certainly here, you mentioned public debt, what you should say is how and what the government needs to do is how to settle a private debt, and the private debt means the debts of citizens and debts to the firm is what we don't know about the company's balance sheet now on 31.12.200 and to encourage investment is good these laws, but the government will surely have to go through some new law restructuring of private firms so that they can get on their feet as soon as possible and can consume ultimately and this law to encourage consumption or investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32856	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32857	Yeah, when the crisis started in 2008. Some, some countries of the world have begun with quantitative discounts. The economic recovery itself in Europe began within several years already in 2012, but the European Central Bank began with this policy of quantitative rebate in 2015. and when we look at graphs of unemployment and other data, we see that actually a major decline in unemployment at EU level has started in 2015. So, yes, some, some lessons are learned from the 2008 crisis. and obviously this policy is economical that goes towards creating a blockage of the economy, to strengthen the economy, obviously that, let's say, that education, or what we learned from the 2008 crisis, was effective. So the goal must now be to have as strong economic development as possible, we must have as much reforms as possible, but deep reforms in Croatia so that we can deal with public debt tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32858	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. Thank you very much. It's Mr. Josip Boric's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32859	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, honoring State Secretary with an associate, colleague and colleague. The draft law amending and supplementing the Investment Encouragement Act I think is a good law, we all supported it more or less except maybe an individual couple of colleagues who always have problems with each law, so it's probably not good for them either. But this one in its very being few articles has developed a debate from which something obvious is that, let's say, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, may also result in any amendment, but in fact I think that we are all for this bill and we know that any measure that can help is certainly acceptable to us as politicians, even though those we take measures look at us differently than we may look at them. This law, which was passed in 2015, has already experienced certain changes several times and have always gone for better and I think it has achieved its certain values, was also spoken of by my colleague Klaric, but the secretary of state and indeed the figures are respectable when we talk about some effects. And now, as far as we can think of it, in terms of what it brings to each individual, I think it's really not easy for us because, I say, every employer and big and small expects the state to always help him through a few possibilities, from tax policy, from solving a number of property relationships, from all other possibilities, to encouraging measures that we will facilitate and invest or develop, and then also to retain jobs, and then, of course, he also has a function that he then delivers through certain profits and to the state itself, and then to the community. Everything was nice until 2019, 2020, it was just not just for us but for the whole of Europe and the world, and of course the government reacted. I think my colleague Bacic described very well what we were doing as a government that it could continue to continue, and even through this law through these measures that he obviously recognizes, at least I am looking through what happened there in the law. through the observations given in the tourism sector, I can talk about it and I can even understand them even though I may not understand why the ministry may not have understood them enough, but okay, everyone has their reasons why something should be done and I think that sector is really affected. We had good years in '17, '18, '19, and big investment cycles and projects in catering. in tourism and this story of theirs that they announced €3 billion in investments in the coming period and that this would fall to some 450 million is something that should be a serious warning. They probably don't do it either just because they say they have a problem. I live on an island that lives on tourism and every support to this sector is always welcome and I think that the tourism sector really died in 2020 in trade, construction, water economy and what you removed what this in part of that will be able to achieve support is obviously beneficial and there is no problem. Although the building has been in space since 2010, in '09 until '15, there were problems until we started using EU funds and until the infrastructure really started to build in every local self-government and the building was fully employed. We know that the trade stands well, and now the water economy, agglomeration has obviously given its, environmental protection, waste management, and also an obvious space in which, especially in the next 10 years, good shifts will certainly take place. Tourism says the investment cycle with us on the island every year we had at least one new hotel or construction or reconstruction. Last year everything stopped, stopped for the next three years, nothing will happen. And that's where they try to work. Today I got their data, they say we worked 40% of the traffic last 2019. It's something that puts them in the room that they're really more and they're kind of at the end of their options. What are we waiting for in this tourist season? We all think it's going to be easier given everything that's going on, and it's going to be a lot harder than 2020. So in this area, it really should always have an understanding for the tourism sector, and I hope that they will actually succeed in doing what they intend to do regardless of this law, but that if their investment cycle turns out this year that it will be good, at least 80% of what we had in 2019, if everything really happens how we think it should then it would certainly be a good incentive for that investment cycle to happen, and then everyone else has the space to go along with tourism and develop as they do themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32860	Thank you. Mr. Klaric's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32861	Dear counterpart Boris, you said everything was good until 2020, and the fact is that Croatia's tourism potential has been used practically up to the maximum given circumstances by that year, but as our people say no harm for any good, perhaps at this point all these investments that are happening and all that is being thought about, and not only directly related to tourism open their eyes to the fact that in thinking about the economy in the area of the Republic of Croatia, tourism is a golden coke, but next to it there are a whole series of activities to be developed, to encourage even more progress in economic development of the Republic. And at this point, regardless of the crisis, we are witnessing really huge investments in the entire region of the Republic of Croatia. And from Pelješko bridge, from Učka tunnel, from the hospital in Pula, in Rijeka, there is practically no part of Croatia that has no huge investment and where there is no construction The sector is involved in the realization of a number of projects. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32862	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32863	Thank you very much, colleague Klaric, let's say you understand especially in this part and the economy and business zone and the promotion of investment, I think perhaps one of the strongest mayors on this issue in the Republic of Croatia, certainly in our county yes. A man who has succeeded in several mandates from some 1,000 employees raised to 5 or more who are working there today, and that's not what I should say not to say, should always be mentioned. And of course, you and as a city and we as a county have parts that are higher on tourism and like on the island of Rab or Krk, Cres, Losinj, etc., the coastal part is, for example, primarily related to tourism while you can develop some other activities and these are our specific features of Croatia. Indeed, the Adriatic Croatia, the continental City of Zagreb, we are all specific and these indices that then bind and these entrepreneurs may once again create unfair relations for us but we simply have to react there as we always know best, and of course the state knows the right thing to do. So she doesn't get in danger either. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32864	Mrs. Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32865	I must confess that I was very pleased to listen to your presentations. But since you've talked a lot about the tourism sector, I find it very difficult what you've been saying to connect with the content of the law itself, so I am asking you nicely for those of us who may have a good understanding of whether you can explain to us exactly what sectors this law refers to, or what projects specifically, and can you describe these three measures to me or, in general, any measure specifically prescribed by this law. I wonder how you would interpret it with your own words, specifically.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32866	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32867	No. I think you're done. It's over. Comrade Oreshkovic, in your debate at least through the replicas, you have shown what you think or know about anything like that and you will tell this law, I think you have a debate against me, so you will probably show your view. [[Intruder: Yes.]] I spoke more politically of something here than any of these several articles written here and which should contribute to Croatian economies in all sectors. So we'll listen to you, and then we'll probably be a lot smarter, given that you always know better than anyone else. We who don't know anything, and we always say something, and no one understands anything, are trying to do the same thing and say something that we think is important, and I've noticed what I think is important for the space I come from. It may not matter to you in Zagreb, even though tourism has its value here. We live on the shore, and we know what those who have asked for certain changes have written there, and we know why they are looking for it. And when you run an investment project or anywhere on something, we'll see the results of that. It's not to pass judgments that fall in the Administrative Court. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32868	I'm sorry, you got it, ma'am. Oreshkovic, you've been warned. - Here you go, Mrs. President. Andrea Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32869	Dear colleague, I'm going to look back at two important things that mattered the things you said. First, each employer expects the state to assist him especially in keeping jobs and second, you spoke of the need to further develop and stimulate tourism. Now, since this law does not involve activities related to the health sector, now, the link between tourism and the health sector, what I'm interested in is these overlapping activities, or sectors, which is a matter of health tourism that is not being talked about, and I don't know whether or not the secretary of state will come to us, maybe you'll know something about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32870	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32871	Well, I believe the Secretary of State will address us at the end of the debate and give us answers to all of your questions and I think she's a good secretary of state who's been here for several terms. She was really one person to work with and especially on the issue of the economy. As for overlapping health tourism, in relation to tourism, I think it's part of that let's say again the entire area of tourism where it's also trying to take steps. We today, I say, are talking about what was a certain remark or... about what was there to comment on the e-consultation and why they feel that they should be respected in the process, i.e. for the extension of certain deadlines, no, and for certain thresholds which are indicated there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why are they looking for it? Because I'm saying, they had intense investments, and then they have a complete stop, let's say, the activities, we're not going to say complete because we had a season that was at least 50% 2019, but it's a little bit compared to what they expected. That's where I understand them. Of course the Ministry will always do what they think [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] that it is necessary for them to be able to achieve [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]] its investment objectives. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you Mr. Boric, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32872	Mr. Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32873	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President. My colleague, Borić, I agree in this work with your debate where you have shown that actually the building has proved quite tough in this one, means really when you look around Zagreb and actually according to the data of the State Statistics Institute, despite all this crisis stuff, the building has proved quite tough, you mentioned tourism, and it is true that tourism will first all those who invest, will immediately stop investment in order to survive at all, right. So just my proposal to think long-term investment, especially in tourism, to return a zero rate to reinvested tourism profits, because these are still long-term investments, tourism will be affected not just once a year, unfortunately it will be 2, 3 years, and certainly some further investment in tourism will be looking for some extra, some relief, so here, it's just some kind of proposal to think about a return on a reinvested profit for tourism, for these big investments, I think we could come well along with this law, right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32874	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32875	The tourism sector is I say, this year really experienced perhaps the most support from the state when we look at that part of the paid-out funds to keep jobs and they can't say that the state doesn't follow them, but they have come into other kinds of problems where they themselves with their own resources that were obviously planned and cycles multiannually in terms of investments, they're simply stopped at the moment by tomorrow, almost, stop and there's nothing and it's creating a problem for them because it's not easy to develop let's say that destination management i.e. tourism in the work that you have ready plans and facilities to be completed. In 2021, in 2022, in 2023, you start on time or you work on time and then someone tells you to stop in 2020, and now you're gone by 2023 nowhere. It just didn't work out for them, they were really great drivers. As much as we can help them, the secretary of state in that segment will probably say more at the end, but I think that from local self-government to foreign states, they really do make this system work and we really hope that the season will be the way we predicted it would be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32876	Thank you. No more replicas, thank you. Now it's Mr. Miro Bulj's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32877	Thank you very much. After the speech of counterpart Boric, who was well written to him and read it well, he is probably running for future minister of beauty of reality because what he is saying, he would really like to be in reality and in one piece he is only right to say that the law is well written with all the measures we still have, we have a crown crisis and we have some coronal measures towards entrepreneurs, investment and incentives. However, the fact is that Croatia is at the bottom of the EU after withdrawing funds from EU funds, at the bottom, which would trigger investment, investment, entrepreneurship, we are at the bottom. That's a fact. We're at the top of the farm. And we've never produced less, which would increase the food industry. We are importing 3 billion euros in food products while 50%, 700 000 ha of agricultural land lies unorthodoxly. In addition, from a million and a half hectares of agricultural land, 0.5% were irrigated. And even so ambitious was the prime minister when he gave his program here, he said we'd double, double the irrigation. And it's 0.5%. So we have Podravka, it's easy to name Martin Dalic, but they don't import repro-materials from peasants from Hungary, let our strategic company import material from the Neretva Valley, the Cetina region, Slavonia, I don't know from where. And then I'll say that these incentives make no sense, they don't know what it looks like, I don't know, potatoes. And not only do they not know, but they want to seed automatically, domestically, they want to ban him, too, that is. to be modified by peasants. It can't go through in Italy, it can't go past any of the EU directives, it's a lie under cover of some kind of disease, and it's solved entirely, plant diseases, quite another law, the law on plant diseases. So you want to kill Croatian peasants and not just Croatia Zagreb. As for investment in construction, yes, you're right, but the fact is that a number of investments get through our fingers and run away like that. The agglomeration of Sinj that would preserve the largest source of drinking water. What about our water resources? Do we make good use of these waters in the interest of the people or have we given, to whom, I don't know who? What about the incentives in the shipbuilding? What about the Concar who makes hotels instead of boats, and that's what the people who tried to make ships in Brodotrogir do to him? You know what he does to them, they make hotels for him, and he doesn't pay the worker. Is it an incentive, is this an incentive of billions that he was trying to fulfill his obligations, give workers wages and produce, not buy hotels to Meden and have the worker Brodotrogira work on his hotel, he pays him, and he destroyed the shipbuilding. Is that Croatia? But there are people who have bled for their country, there are defenders who still work in the Square, who are... and this Concar doesn't pay them because he's protected. And as for the investment, in my Split-Dalmatia County, the government promised three years ago a union of Sinj on the highway, the Vrgorca tunnel merger, 10 times Branko Bačić opened it as a minister, as a Ravce-Drvenik. Knin, Drnis investments to us, zero, except for the pre-election governments in Split so that the rest of you in power can share money and control people across the county. Yes, you have now an investment, an investment on the wolf di wolf mail he wears, and the fox is ringing, there's no one in the afternoon and now 40 million invests in the wolf's compound from the exit to the tunnel on the Kozjak which he doesn't have, and the Cetina province 50,000 people don't want it, there's Ante Sanader, the Honorable Vice President, who's got his own garden. Bought the gardener a jump price and similar to him, Boban and so on. The people are leaving. What kind of investments are these? Are these productive investments? We have investments and money approved from Europeans but don't do anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32878	Thank you. Mr. Bull, you've got a few replicas, so you'll be able to continue. The first replica was sought by Mr. Bolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32879	Thank you. Dear fellow Bull. You were talking about how little there really is investment, how bad the investment climate is. It is bad in Croatia not only because we did not create a prerequisite for investing because we did not cut the charges, he also talked about it as a colleague of Lalovec, but because we are actually Europe's champions in the perception of corruption. Who will come to invest in a country where we have one legal uncertainty, where regulations change almost every year, where we have convictions for corruption affairs? I think that's the key, and in order to actually be able to deal with corruption, we need independent institutions, we need an efficient and smaller state apparatus, and then we need a cut-off. But we see that the rulings do not want to go in that direction, we have proposed that the membership fee be abolished for HGK, again it has given up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32880	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32881	Thank you very much. In Croatia I once said five key things that hinder investment, development, investment is the judiciary, the judiciary, the judiciary, the judiciary, the judiciary, the judiciary. And there was Mr. Sess when I said that to the Supreme Court president, when I said that justice was an important bag, the bag was important. And as long as the entrepreneurs in Kaštela in Kerum are five county judges, the arches and the banks in the crown crisis, of course other entrepreneurs who want to invest cannot. I mean, what does that look like? Or in Slovenia 9. Representatives of the judiciary of the public procurement authorities were dealing with Janaf there, the money counter, the disaster. Did they get the incentive? Who do you encourage? Where are those investments, Di? We are the worst in the EU after the withdrawal of funds, except for this paper fog that is written in a nice way. I can't say it's written in law, but that's how the sea prescribes whoever it wants.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32882	Thank you very much. Mrs. Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32883	Dear fellow Bull. If you do not think it is a little cynical that we are working on an urgent procedure on a new legislative framework that will allow for the rise of the technological level, the equipment of the Croatian economy, the introduction of new equipment and modern technologies, etc., and that we bear in mind that this week on the parliamentary committees, and probably the next one going into the legislative procedure, will go to law to prevent the production of seeds on agricultural holdings, our most important entrepreneurs, and will be required of them if they want to produce this seed to be sent to the dorat. I don't know, I guess they're going to have to invent some kind of hats through which the potatoes will transport, so they don't even have the basics that will allow their most important entrepreneurship for Croatia's interests to grow, and here we are talking about digitisation, technologicalization and all the other nice desires.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32884	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32885	I can't understand at all what they want with that seed law. What do they want? They want to force the peasant with... allegedly some seed-making essentially do ban on the peasant of his kumpir, an example of a grain of transportation, di to transport, who to repair it, who? He's forced to buy means foreign seed, foreign seed. That's for example. We've got a potato face, recognizable, that should be, say, in NP Plitvice where we have millions of people a year, the main half of this is that major delicacy. However, it is easier for ours to introduce it from Egypt and present it as a personal potato than to buy it from domestic OPGs. The goal is to destroy domestic peasants, pests, import lobbys, pests. There's no other sentence or roaring, because we have the richest and most beautiful land to produce vegetables and fruits and everything, and we don't mean that the vermin did it using incentives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32886	Thank you. Time. Now she's Mrs. Rose Wolf.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32887	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Bull. So, you're opening a theme of agriculture very often in this High House, so as you think about those commissioners, here's the one removed to hear me, about the officers who own over 100 acres of land, we have those on the ground, who refuse to implement the rules on the revaluation of the rent price, who didn't hire anyone, who refuse to conduct a land tender, who don't have production because of course they're not cattlemen? And now the law, the proposed land law, gives priority to the once again property as the main asset to regain land and this time for 25 years, with the possibility of extending to another 25. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32888	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vukovac, but you still need to hold the mask, I'm sorry. Here you go, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32889	Fellow Vukovac, together we have opened up countless times myself and you have always agreed here that monopolies, local sheriffs and their servants have destroyed Croatian peasants, domestic milk production has absolutely destroyed, not only that, but most of it goes into the base probably and who knows how much of our largest resource is available to agriculture land. With this kind of resources that we have, which are important, it's agricultural land. Hungarians have banned them from selling agricultural land to foreigners, legal and physical persons in the EU. It's a resource, strategically. And we our local leaders, here you live and you know how it works mostly in your part of the mountain in Slavonia it's a crime, it's destroying the village, it's emptying the village, it's targeted. Until the village and the peasant are strong, you know it well, there is no rich country. We can play gentlemen We can dress up, but until every inch is modeled and there's no crime around the land. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32890	Thank you. Mrs. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32891	So you mentioned Brodotrogir, so to ask a question, we agree that it is a breach of a contract signed by Danko Končar and the number of workers who should have stayed employed by at least 620, now there are a few hundred and barely social agreements signed with workers who are not held by them, where there should have been the opening and new jobs and facilities, but I will warn you of one thing, that it is behind such an agreement and the collapse of Brodotrogir and other of our shipyards in Croatia and the EU agreement on the rules of functioning of the EU where state interventionism and protectionism are banned and which lead to the abolition and closure of our shipyards. And I'm afraid some of the opposition would do almost the same thing as now ruling.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32892	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32893	My colleague Peović exactly said that half the workers should have stayed, it was signed by Danko Končar when the restructuring contract was restructuring 620 of these others, he got the money and most of the money he got seemed to me about half a billion kuna from the state, one part he should have provided, severance and another way to solve workers. But he got rid of everything, got rid of the workers he didn't pay, made by his hotels, and that's a fact. And that's a shame. By God and by man, the greatest sin is to pay no man his money earned by work, by effort, by sweat. Well, that's a shame. But nothing at all, these people are going to get organized, I'm going to personally help them, we all have to help them. Can't someone come in that way and act like it. As for the interventionism of the state, when it was an auto-industry, when it was a crisis, Germany directly gave interventions to its auto-industry to stay. So we have to save what gives us as an export product, which is shipbuilding among other things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32894	Thank you. Now it's Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32895	Thank you. Honorable MPs and MPs. Well, a little bit that paints so well all the ferocity of legislative activities during HDZ's parliamentary majority as a comment from HDZ representative Tomislav Klaric, in fact, his replica sent to the legislator of this bill, in which he found the amazing information about the assistance of these government economies in the coronary crisis, and then her response that he says, so that we are phenomenal, and we are going to work to be even better. And in this case, Mr. Klaric is finding out, so it's a shame that our public and our businessmen don't know about these phenomenal results. And now I'm going to ask a rhetorical question, so who or what is it that the state in which the phenomenal public and the businessmen have no idea about it? I'll go one step further. We're talking here today about the Investment Encouragement Act, and most of the time, they've spent most of their time praising themselves with the amounts of help to the covid crisis economies. So what's the theme here? Should this law be used to save entrepreneurs in a crisis or should it serve as some normative framework to help develop certain sectors as it says in the announcement at least or part of the reasoning? And now I'm just going to look back on why, then, one minute of exposure to Branko Bačić, I felt like two, so it's repeated again and again and again and again, and it's getting away from the essence. And the bottom line is that even when we transpose EU legislation into our domestic legal system, the results are lagging behind. And why is that? Because the whole system is a mess, and that mess created by HDZ and HDZ is perpetuating that mess. In fact, one of the objectives of this law is to activate non-active state property. It's a fantastic goal, but the problem is that we don't know exactly what the state's assets are, including the property of local and regional self-government units. The current Anti-Corruption Strategy expired at the end of last year, several times after this assembly, I mentioned that in the new strategy, one of the objectives should be to establish a transparent register of complete assets with which the state would have contained a management plan, so what is planned to be done with certain assets. As well as following the register of all contracts concluded with all necessary information on who concluded the contract, when, under what conditions and how that contract is executed. At that time, we could talk about how the rulings really aim to develop evenly all parts of the Republic, go towards regional development, and that each of the entrepreneurs under equal and transparent criteria can know how they will benefit from their own economic potential. I see my colleague Bulj reporting for his word, so I'm going to replicate something you said in your presentation. You asked who you encourage? So exactly, that's the real question, who do you encourage? But that question should also be answered by establishing a register where exactly who Hamag-BICRO has given incentives and why? Who are the real estates assigned to, under what criteria? So it turns out that the whole package of measures is always assigned to the chosen ones, those who had the first chance to find out something without saying by some non-transparent criteria of profit. And yes, speaking of the word "transparentity" and spatial plans, which are also one of the great problems and the reason for the misimplementation of this law. I mentioned the process of Croatian Kuščevisation. So Lovro Kuščević was not the only one who had Kuščevrezad Croatia and do not tell me that the process, the adoption of spatial plans, is transparent in situations where we have members of the same political party in the municipal council. This can be transparent in the criteria of Dari Hrebak, but not transparent in the sense that it would be in the interest of the Croatian public and Croatian citizens. And if you want to make a move here, here's a concrete solution, cover the council members in reaching the commission and the Law on preventing conflicts of interest. For example. make clear that membership in the same political party is considered to be an interesting connection because very often we have the right forms of clientelism and corruption, which unfortunately are not under whose radar and system does not detect them. When we talk about amendments, these are very specific solutions that would really improve the implementation and achievement of the objectives of this law, but we have seen how the rulings treat the amendments that come from the lines of opposition, and then the representation of such amendments would be tossing pearls where pearls should not be thrown. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32896	Thank you. No, no, don't leave, don't leave, you have replicas. The first line, and the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32897	He's been injured. 238, a colleague of parliament personally called me and the secretary of state with something that was not justified at all, and if she had ever opened it, had prepared any job, had launched any specific project that would have meant anything to the economy then would have accepted such a violation of the Rules of Procedure and an insult, but the easiest thing to do is to talk to those who never did anything concrete but just talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32898	Mr. Klaric, you have a warning because it was a replica, and now we're moving on with the replicas, but I am. Mrs. Devereaux. Selak Rasudić
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32899	Dear colleague Oreskovic, I would like to ask you something about this law, and you can answer what you have specifically done, and I see that it is of great interest in this respected home and who is allowed at all, and who cannot speak about the laws. So, this proposal of these few additions should lead to one thing called "a growth of employment" which is our principle goal. How do you comment on such an idea or such a requirement of this legal framework while at the same time we have in mind previously passed laws such as the Foreigners Act of Art. 97th, and further, which do not deal with creating conditions in Croatia that would allow employment to grow here, and also spending the money that is earned here rather than this problem by facilitating the import of foreign labour, is this another dead letter on paper?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32900	Thank you. Please respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32901	I don't think this law is a dead letter on paper entirely, it's gonna benefit someone from it anyway, it's just a question of who? And it's in my interest, and I'm convinced to you, that we have a fair country that implies that equal opportunities are available to everyone under the same criteria. In this I support what your party colleague Miroslav Bulj has said, who are you encouraging? I want the system to be truly transparent, predictable, that it can be planned and managed, and I don't think our biggest problem is whether to hire domestic workers or foreigners, our biggest problem is that we have a government that isn't able to manage, because that means two criteria, the first ability this government doesn't have, that's what most ministers' résumés say, and the second is that there's no corrupt intentions, without it simply this ruling majority can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32902	Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32903	Thank you very much. My colleagues, incentives and investments, and especially when we talk about fostering in the Republic of Croatia and the support that is essentially being given, this corona crisis has revealed that everything has been missed, that in the wrong most 90% of it has been missed and that the incentives have been given to those who did not tribal to win. I know a word that paints them for dairy who don't know how many cows have tits. We are here unanimously and we must be aware that we have 2/3 of Croatia empty. Here's Banovina only discovered when there was an earthquake that, in other parts, nothing was better in Lica, in the Dalmatian Zagora, in all these parts, for what? Because the support is provided exclusively by the party card and this is the problem, and as long as the village and the peasants and the economy do not live in 2/3 of Croatia, there is nothing. 6% of GDP is from our evicted young people in the last 5 years. who send messages to their parents. It's huge exports, the largest in Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32904	Dear Representative, I agree with you that something with the granting of support in Croatia is not right, not only because agricultural production is smaller to us today after all years in the EU than it was at the moment of gaining independence but also because of the fact that here is now about this covid crisis which has been discussed very much in the debate many of our entrepreneurs did not get in time the incentives the government is talking about. So I say all of their debate today, seen from the perspective of the businessmen and our citizens here, who watch this debate via television can only conclude this is not the debate of the Croatian Parliament, this is the screening of the novel and the comic book of Allen Ford.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32905	Mr. Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32906	Dear MPs in your debate have also touched on the transparency of state property management data. This transparency is a famous concept that is increasingly mentioned in our high home, but unfortunately also in public, the public is increasingly seeking to deliver these data. The possibility of accessing state property data is extremely important, especially when we put it in the context of the government's already mentioned initiatives. Since the creation of our country to date, there have been more attempts to establish a single register of these data, a unique database, but not today after 20 and a few years I'm not sure that such a base is if it exists as a first unique one, I'm not sure it's complete, I'm not sure it's really qualified to give data to end-users in an adequate way. I'd like to ask you if you may know at what stage is the completion of the register of that state property or that unique base Considering that we also had the Ministry of State Property Management [[Intruder: Time.]] and did any of the public manage to access.../incomprehensible/... [[Intruder: Time Mr. Pavić.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32907	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32908	No, there's no single register where all the data would be united in one place and I dare say there's no will, no intention at all to access the kind of register I'm talking about. And why isn't there? So as then, people like the mayor of Sisak-Moslavina County would be able to use state property for years for a very symbolic sum and a whole series of others. So here we're talking not only about state-owned apartments, we're talking about cities and municipalities that are very often assigned to those whom the party wants to borrow or take care of in a certain way. This kind of transparent register would simply hit a heavy blow to the plexus of all those who have corrupt intentions, and the public functions used to acquire some kind of personal gain from them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32909	Thank you very much, no more replicas, thank you. Now it's Mrs. Mariana Puljak's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32910	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this bill therefore introduces additional incentive measures to help the economy with the consequences of economic disturbances due to the pandemic. And this bill is actually a legal framework which, or they say, creates assumptions for the continued increase in the number and quality of investment projects. When it comes to Croatia and encouraging investment, I will agree with Mr. Bačić but he is not here, which spoke of several factors that would be a prerequisite for encouraging investment. These are a stable tax system, as he said, or reduced burden on entrepreneurs, reduced impositions, and we see how much trouble it takes to eliminate a simple burden since they say tiny 42 kunas. Further, arranged property legal relations, spatial planning documentation and national development strategy. But he forgot a few things I'm going to mention here, which is fighting corruption, at the level of corruption we're champions in the world, and one of the ways I'm going to fight corruption is an effective public administration, a state administration or a regulated and rational local and regional self-government. How good we are at ensuring these preconditions speaks so-called. The ranking list Doing business that ranks the countries of the world according to various conditions for business. Croatia is in the last ranking somewhere on or precisely 51st place ahead of us are Montenegro, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, the Czech Republic, Macedonia. So, in his first year of office, Andrej Plenkovic made it public for the country from 43 places on that scale to be introduced in the first 30, but here we are today at 51 in no way moving among those first 30. So we have a lot of work to do as a state to be a country with a rank better than that ABC or Anything but Croatia. However, another topic I would like to warn here, or another document, has already been mentioned by the State Secretary, which is the national recovery and resilience plan. The European Parliament has today approved a recovery and resilience mechanism that will help Member States combat the effects of the pandemic, it is part of the next generation of the EU's recovery plan, and in order to make use of the funds and benefit more than EUR 9 billion in withdrawal from the fund, we are obliged to bring a national recovery plan and resilience. In order to be eligible for funding, these national plans must focus on key areas of EU policy, which is green transition, digital transformation, economic cohesion competitiveness and social and territorial cohesion and plans should ensure lasting social economic impacts, include comprehensive reforms and a large investment package, and should not significantly harm environmental objectives. So, this plan brings the government, the deadline they set for themselves was by the end of last year, but here's the day we haven't seen it yet. It has been announced that it will have 6 main thematic units of the economy, public administration, justice, education, science and research, the labour market, social protection, health and safety. They should submit it to the commission by 1 April at the latest with projects to be completed by 2026 at the latest. The private sector has criticised that there are none of their representatives in the working group for document making and that money should be invested more in the economy, less in infrastructure and public projects. Although it was announced by the government that the draft document would include the discussion, whether, with all social partners, a recent meeting in Croatia was held in the employers' association, however, it was more of a monologue rather than a discussion and a desire for some kind of conversation. Slovenia has allocated more than 50% of the funds to the economy, according to this so far, it will be only 6-7% of Croatia, and the justification is that there are no prepared projects, the question is why they did not include both businessmen and entrepreneurs in the creation of the document earlier. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32911	Thank you... with replicas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The first line has Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32912	Thank you very much. My colleague Puljak, so that what we are reading here now, modern technologies, the development of new industries, all okay, but we have here today, I am from that county, so 3 years ago the government was in Split, promised 10 significant projects, mainly connecting Split's backgrounds with Split, which is very important, because of the better conditions of life that would be opened in the background, however, it's made you know what? Zero. You know it well, nothing. Nothing. Apart from Sanader Ante being a socaku there, some kind of garden, now some road has been made towards some future tunnel through Kozjak. As for waste management and greens, down into us, it's meaningful, from Vrgorec carrying garbage in old trucks to Sinj, they haven't solved anything. A lens of beaten money into nothing, still a pile of rest. So what about the application, and mostly in our down Dalmatia, I always say, The souther, the sadder, nothing on, not to return, but to reject us. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It's like we don't belong in Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32913	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32914	Here, I can only agree with you, with everything said, one thing which, I would say even all the governments since Croatia, and before, whether, promise and often mention it here, is also the fast road Trogir-Omis. Right? We can't wait for it, I think it's already what we've been waiting for, and 50 years, they promise it, every government when it comes, is it proudly down to Split, here are the local elections, just here we're waiting for the next set of campaign promises.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32915	Mr. Price.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32916	Dear colleagues, you spoke of who he is, and you listed who's above us on the Doing Business Board. There are a lot of states ahead of us, please, in the future, just mention who's worse than us, you'll save yourself time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32917	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32918	I just agree with you. So this is not on, we usually say that we are on the ranking lists, so all the ranking lists, not just this Doing Business, whenever you have some sort of ranking list that measures the success of a country, which measures the living conditions, the conditions that are for business, is whether, Croatia is convincing at the bottom of those scales. Rang list where we're first, is, like I said, we're probably at the level of corruption. We're here, we're fighting the top alone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32919	- Mrs. Crescent. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32920	Here, I would not agree that this figure of place on the Doing Business ranking is an indicator of economic and social growth, the highest, in one of the highest places on the Doing Business ranking there is Macedonia with half of the population not being warmed up and one of the highest unemployment rates in Europe. Therefore, the Doing Business Board is not exactly the best indicator, what is a good indicator, it is that we are growing on a scale of material indicators of social depression and poverty and there we are really at the top, so almost a million people live in conditions in danger of poverty. What you need to ask, when you talk about technology and technological development as a question of how we're going to achieve this technological development if we refuse those only mechanisms and levers of development, these are state interventionism and state protectionism, so let's agree on importing foreign technology mostly when it doesn't. stop being at the very top when [[Intruder: Thank you.]] He can't get us up on that ladder anymore. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32921	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32922	What, in which we will agree that Croatia is among the poorest among the poorest countries in the EU besides all ranks and at the top, or at the bottom of the poverty list. What we're not going to agree on, we're talking about this ranking list of Doing Business, I said, it's not the only list to measure the level of success of a country, but what you and I disagree about, that's how much countries need to interfere with the economy and the economy, what we're at, what we're dealing with is less of that interference, less of the country's influence in the economy, facilitating business entrepreneurs and allowing entrepreneurs to breathe. So the reduction of the burden, more than 5 hundred parafiscal burdens, the reduction of tax burdens that will then lead to to open new jobs and give more opportunities to people. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32923	Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32924	Dear MPs, I would only like to remove one mantra that has been mentioned here for a long time in the Parliament, which is that membership for the Chamber is 42 kuna. It's only for one small number of entrepreneurs. In fact, we have a very large number of entrepreneurs who pay membership fees and 1093 kunas and 3 900 kunas. Why? Because membership depends on several criteria. You know what the criteria are for those at least, so if they have an asset of up to 7 and a half million kuna, if they have a turnover of 15 million kuna, i.e. 15 million kuna, i.e. they still have 50 people employed, and they need to meet 2 of these conditions. Then comes the following... And then she's in 3 and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, that's not true, and please, that's what the Prime Minister said, but now everyone has accepted it, and that's not true. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32925	Thank you, too. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32926	Exactly, I agree with you, this has been spin of ruling, as I would say first of all, this is in some way and symbolic, if you are satisfied with the work, so this is not a battle against the Chamber of Commerce, if you are satisfied with the work and the level of products and services that this Chamber is performing for you, you will certainly also be paying membership fees, there will not be a lot of 42 or 1000 kuna if you are satisfied with their work, but if it is some kind of chamber whose purpose is to yourself, then the kuna and one kuna is too, so I ask you, will you pay for coffee that you are not satisfied with 10 kuna? You won't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32927	Thank you, too. - Mrs. Crescent. Selak Rasudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32928	Dear counterpart Puljak, how you comment on the fact that here we are talking about ensuring measures to promote some economic recovery and investment in the economy while at the same time what is crucial is the prerequisite for national development at all, and in particular the development of the economy, which is science, we are not only by corruption of the worst in Europe, but also by investment in science, we are not changing that part, and then we are showing here that we have some cosmetic changes that will not change our economic picture to Croatia until we change what should be created at all, and that is to encourage final investment in science.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32929	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32930	Well, you're right, I agree with that same mantra and this government and all the previous governments is that we need to raise up to 3% of the level of investment in science and education. Now we're somewhere below 1% and we've been standing at that level for the last 30 years. As this government has gone and this until now, what they've shown, we're not going to reach that 1% in the next 10, 15 years, by them, at this rate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32931	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. Thank you very much. And it's Mrs. Gossipman's turn. Katarina Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32932	Good afternoon, everyone. Here, viewers and viewers in front of small screens are probably listening to this debate about encouraging investment, wondering why we're not feeling better. The ruling opposition has been repeating the same imperatives more or less, measures, political moves that are allegedly needed to become competitive, productive, to reach the most developed countries. Whoever is out of the opposition, let's raise your hand, please, against the measures of the rulings that have passed 3 previous amendments to the law, let's say, who is against the measures for investment projects in economic activation of inactive state property, encouraging investment in centres for the development of information and communication systems and software, micro-enterprise investment projects. Who is against when they say the ruling simplifications and improvement of existing incentive measures for investment projects. Who is against introducing support for modernising business processes of automation, robotisation, digitisation, manufacturing processes in manufacturing and processing activities? Anybody maybe? Is anyone opposed to these amendments to the law with three additional incentive aid measures in the Covid crisis perhaps? Since the opposition, we have heard that it is aware that it is necessary to increase investment, investment, boost production, but economic development policies are not significantly different. At the same time, our lagging behind is constant, no matter who's in power, and the petty differences are more about the reflection of the global global so-called economic movements, meaning than the crisis and conjunctures, meaning shifts, than is the result of some autonomous policy of the ruling. The alleged successes of the years-long growth rate of the economy, fiscal consolidation, the reduction of the public debt that the rulings often speak of, are not of course the consequences of the ruling policies, but of the conjunctures in which they were found and which, in comparison to Milanovic's government, brought the same set of measures that the government had taken. So the success that this government is talking about is relative because it is not taken in comparison or compared to the development of other countries in, therefore, this region or in our neighbourhood. The success, therefore, is in general unmatched with other countries in the environment where it would become more clear that these countries have grown at higher rates and in other economic and social indicators have shown much higher progress and greater progress than Croatia. In other words, Croatia has been comparatively lagging behind. But what no one is questioning is the framework that they share, both by ruling and opposition, which rejects, and also forbids, this is what we will see in the next law that I will talk about in my individual debate, meaning that it prohibits the policies of state interventionism and protectionism as a form of economic model and strategy, which are precisely developing countries that are currently very well developed, means in the development process we will see it in the second law, the framework, means free competitions that nominally introduces equal market rules for all, corresponds primarily to those already developed, which are both technological and more productive, and those who are less developed, the conditions so-called. free competitions are not responding to anything, nor can they compete. However, the developed countries themselves have benefited greatly from state interventionism policies such as nationalisation of strategic industries, industrial policies, Picking Winners strategies, competitive currency devaluation, indicative economic planning, for example in France, and have also used state protectionism policies, such as import tax and tariffs, non-tariff barriers, more competitive imports and so on. So the reason for our lack of productivity is no one here will question, so not only is state interventionism and protectionism prohibited but in some situations we are more faithful and sacred than the Pope and the result is that only about 15% of Croatian companies export, that they are constantly increasing the deficit in trade, for example, about 71 billion kuna with abroad and has increased by 6% in 2019 compared to 2018 and is constantly negative. The result is that we climb on a scale of material indicators of deprivation and poverty, so if we keep repeating one of these same measures over and over again. No one is therefore able to achieve any kind of root turn anymore. [[Intruder Radin: Time, thank you.]] About small and medium-sized enterprises, I'll talk more about... /Intruder Radin: Thank you very much, Mrs. Peović./ [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32933	Thank you, stay, stay, stay, Mr. Brumnic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32934	In my debate, I said that Croatia's greatest happiness is what is in the EU, and then because the EU knows what it wants to do with it, something and Croatia will have it. And this is so much the Croatian government is working on that we are getting close to Europe, it is telling us that several times already Europe is giving us the biggest subsidies and it is giving us the biggest subsidies precisely because we are weakest. It's not exactly what you're saying that Europe doesn't want us to get even with them, it wants us to get even... They don't care if someone's coming to them. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] They're not interested in anyone coming to Berlin to beg. [[Invadica Peović: It is not in the field of willfulness.]] They are interested in working with someone and there is a key to the development of Europe, only we do not know how to use it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32935	Thank you, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32936	Well, I mean, I agree that we got the most money because we're the poorest, but this is that Europe doesn't want us to develop, I didn't say, it's not in the field of willing, so it's not a matter that someone wouldn't want us to develop, but the thing is that the periphery relationship and the center is fixed, it's not imposed in terms of us not going through some degree of development, we're still in some ortasy capitalism, when we overcome it, we're going to come to the development of those most developed, Sweden, Germany, Denmark. That's not gonna happen. So, this development of the centre of Europe and the lagging of the periphery of Europe are interlinked and we are constantly misreading that one day we will only develop if we follow some rules. So are we so naive that we think that those in power are not capable enough or that they're evil or that they don't want to do anything? Were they better before them? So the exact same neoliberal measures we take and we have the same results and that's not going to change.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32937	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. And finally, in the name of the Representatives' Club, Mrs. Mosta will speak. Maria Selak Rasudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32938	My colleagues and fellow MPs, here's to briefly relying on a debate that ended on the Internet. It can be noted that in the last few days we have finally shown an enviable level of self-respect and sovereignty in relation to the policies of the dominant EU countries, especially those in which we love each other so easily and so often, at least nominally. And when did we show that envious level of sovereignty? So that's when our elderly population was to be split up with a vaccine that hasn't been investigated enough for these prestigious countries to know its effectiveness in the population for over 65 years. Now, here we suddenly remembered that it doesn't matter what our great role models say, but that we think for ourselves, and that, easily and without a problem, no matter what their conclusions say, we're going to divide our elderly population. I wish we could show the same amount of resistance to self-resistance, critical thinking and sovereignty in all other issues concerning the well-being of our population. As regards this bill, which should provide the necessary legal framework and create assumptions for the continued increase in the number and quality of investment projects that are implemented in the Republic of Croatia, of course it is only a few legislative changes, therefore the focus of this debate is and will be on whether all these thematics that are presented in the light of the law and which justify the urgency of this process and all these beautiful big objectives and desires, indeed, are based on policies, mainly in legislative policies that are about encouraging investment and in this case, revitalisation of the economy. When we talk about how to help entrepreneurship, the basic question becomes at this point, which entrepreneurship? Entrepreneurship, which has been on its knees for days, months, has been trying to communicate with the government and is failing in its venture, entrepreneurship that ended on the road the other day, in the main city square despite the epidemiological crisis because it remains a democratic way to indicate that they are in major problems. We don't just need to encourage investment, we can focus and do something about this existing, which we don't need to change the legislative framework. If we remove the parafiscal burdens, however, this legislative framework is obviously not to be welcomed. If it's only $42 as our prime minister would say to whom it may be I don't know, the number he gives for croissants, then what are the 42 kn for if they're irrelevant? We can just get rid of them. Secondly, if we really want to help our entrepreneurs, then we need to put a moratorium on loans and interest. But also the moratorium on creditworthiness because what is less talked about in public space is that many of our citizens and entrepreneurs suddenly changed their credit ability at a time when they were already in the process and received a guarantee of obtaining the same credit capability, given the uncertainty of the epidemiological situation and the discretionary right of the bank to influence our creditworthiness. Since the larger ones were given the promised credit ability, they took certain steps that were guaranteed by that credit ability and found themselves in difficult problems when they saw that this ability could not yet be realized. Explain also to entrepreneurs why you are introducing individual measures, let them be minimum measures with maximum effect and not maximum measures with unknowable and delayed effects, and let them work so we do not need such legal changes. Do something about justice. In the previous assembly session, we had between 2016 and 2020 of the 880 laws as many as 415 laws per emergency procedure, and now from 100 to 35. So what's the emergency procedure problem? So, of course, if we go according to the usual procedure that we will have the opportunity to consider certain legal provisions to return to them and create better quality legislative frameworks, and not return to the amendments and additions of the law, we will create legal uncertainty that will negate investments that are crucial to fostering the economy in Croatia. Let's encourage employment, but let's encourage employment so that our population can be employed, not because it is ours, but because it will spend money in that same Croatia in which it has earned them and that we will have the revitalisation of the entire economy, we think Croatia as a whole and in the end if we want to deal with the problem of corruption, then let's not encourage the secret public procurement of those entrepreneurs who are someone's nephews but encourage all by returning public procurement and competition to the process. procurement of medical equipment. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32939	Thank you. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. We move to the second item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Competition, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 107 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. It means a bill bearing 107. On the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. Madam Secretary of State Natasha Mikush Zigman, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Talks, Development, I apologize, she is here with us and will introduce us to the basic characteristics of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32946	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The esteemed representatives and MPs, therefore, are proposed for 2 and 3 reasons, respectively, by these amendments and additions to the Competition Protection Act. The first is the need to take over the new EU acquis. Furthermore, as a result of the current application of this law, we believe that further regulation of certain provisions was needed in order to improve the expression and that there would be no doubt in their interpretation. And thirdly, we propose certain status issues, to address certain status issues of members of the Board of the Competition Protection Agency. So here's what I'm going to do, and in that order, I'm going to put forward in a brief way what the main changes are proposed by this bill. When we talk about the legal gain, this therefore refers to the adoption of the Directive of 2019. the year, which is authorised by the authorities of the Member States in charge of competition for more effective implementation of the rules, namely on competition and which, of course, allows for the proper functioning of the internal market. The purpose of which the directive, which we call ECN or ECN+, should be achieved, and of course these amendments and additions to the law, is to ensure the independence of the competition authorities, further sufficient resources for the exercise of their powers. The minimum powers that these bodies have in the ability to impose fines or daily fines on identified infringements, all in order to effectively and uniformly apply Articles 101 and 102. The Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, or what is applicable in the Croatian legal system. Furthermore, new legal institutes such as mandatory talks are introduced into national legislation, daily fines then settlements in the procedures for establishing prohibited agreements, and further, as I said earlier, the legal institute is also discussing insight into the statements of the penitent. With regard to fines, it is possible not to impose a fine in administrative proceedings and administrative dispute on the present and former directors or managers or other employees of the Agency for the Protection of Competition and their participation in a prohibited horizontal agreement or cartel, provided that the AZTN accepts the application and recognises the status of the penitent. In the case of a legal institute, mandatory AZTN talks would have the power to call before and during the written request procedure, and for the mandatory hearing of any worker in the case of an entrepreneur or any other legal person or any natural person, if those persons could have information relevant to the application of this law or Articles 101 or 102 respectively. Treaty on the Functioning of the EU. Furthermore, the legal institute of settlements in the procedures for establishing prohibited agreements should allow the parties in the procedure to recognise the infringement of the law and Article 101, which I have previously mentioned, so it is the recognition of participation in the prohibited agreement or cartel, and to make a written statement that the denunciation of the solution that AZTN will bring to the administrative dispute. Since the party thus contributes to the economic nature of the procedure at an early stage in this way, and these proceedings are long-term and are revealed in the rules 3 to 5 years after this act has been committed in return for AZTN, provided that it accepts the proposal for a settlement may impose a lower penalty. In addition to these legal institutes which I have now explained to the proposed law, the correct application of Article 9 will also be ensured. Council Regulations 139 of 2004 relating to the case where the European Commission decides to grant, within the meaning of this Regulation, to the Competition Protection Agency, a concentration with effect on trade between EU Member States. In this case, AZTN will assess the authorisation of that concentration within the meaning of the Competition Protection Act, regardless of whether the participants and the agreed concentrations meet the income requirements of the Competition Protection Act, since they already fulfil the income conditions laid down by the Council Regulation. In addition, this law would allow for a more correct application of the Article. 5. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It is therefore in line with the provisions of the legal acquis. National competition authorities shall not be authorised to take a decision to determine that competition within the meaning of the provisions of Article 2 has not been violated. 101st and 102nd. The Treaty on the Functioning of the EU can only be suspended. Thus, it ensures the application of the principle of "nibis in ide" means Roman law, which is a rule by which a procedure on the same matter cannot be applied twice, since in these cases the Commission may decide to follow the procedure if it considers it meaningful. Furthermore, this law would cease to apply to a regulation on the common exemption of an insurance agreement, as well as to bring national law or legislation in line with the acquis of the EU and AZTN, as an authorised body, would therefore be able to take a decision rejecting an initiative to initiate an official duty procedure within the meaning of this law, but also Article. 101 and 102, which, after considering the content of the application of such a procedure, does not consider it to be a priority in the work or if this is the case, or if it is a minor distortion of competition. Finally, the third element that I mentioned is the introduction of status issues, i.e. by this law we propose to regulate the legal basis for calculating the salary for the President of the Council, the Vice-President of the Council and members of the AZTN Council in a way that provides for a basis for the calculation of the salary of the President of the Council, the Vice-President and the members who are equal to the basis for calculating the salaries of state officials. This basis is prescribed by the Government's decision of 2002, which is based on art. 13. b) The Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials, which has been decided by the Court of Justice, has, in effect, been abolished by that article and, at this moment, there is no legal basis for the calculation of the basis, and we believe that this is the case, in this way, by law. In this regard, I would like to point out that, therefore, the coefficients for the salary calculation will be determined according to the proposal for this law by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which would be published in the National Journal, and the coefficient for the President of the Council cannot be greater than the coefficient for the Secretary of State. We also propose this law to regulate the process of proposing and members of the council in such a way as to publish a public invitation to propose candidates, which the Government then proposes to the Croatian Parliament. Finally, the legislator proposes the adoption of a law on amendments and additions instead of a new Law on the Protection of Competition, since the principle of banning the retroactive application of the law, AZTN would not have the legal basis or the possibility to initiate and conduct proceedings against entrepreneurs who have severely violated competition. Why is that? As I said before, therefore, cartels are one of the most severe violations of competition, which are usually revealed 3 to 5 years since their conclusion. In view of the above, such violations of the law would remain in the case of the adoption of a new law in the large part of unprocessed and unsanctioned, which is why not only Croatia but other Member States, for example Germany, would always make amendments and supplement the applicable rules when it comes to this subject and the latter, so we propose amendments and additions instead of adopting a new law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32947	Thank you very much, please stay here because we have a whole series of replicas on your exhibit, almost everyone present has answered, so let's go in line. The first is the replica of the respected representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32948	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, here's when this whole bill is read, then this hateful word "cartel" turns out one 220 times. Now, you have a situation where you have some entrepreneurs or companies who seem to comply with all the rules of competition, are not part of any cartel and report to the competition, offer the best price, the best conditions, get that competition, but they are actually in agreement with the one who is calling the competition and then already from the first invoice they break the agreed price. What then? How's the hodogram? I mean, who's going to report them if they're in agreement with the guy who's putting up the competition and the one who's actually putting up the price and is going to get out of date? Here's your comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32949	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32950	Thank you very much for asking. So you have also touched on the subject of public procurement which, of course, is related to the definition of prices. What I can say is that any price agreement is prohibited and, of course, in accordance with the provisions of this law, there is a possibility in case such an agreement occurs, that it should be reported to the agency, that the agency then process it in the manner prescribed by the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32951	Please, let's not get off the bench. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32952	Thank you very much. Market competition, the aim of competition is to make the consumer cheaper, better, better and more accessible goods services. But when we talk about the competition, then we need to talk about the monopoly most. We have to get back to reality. I've heard sanctions, I've heard a way of competing from a local level. I could name countless examples. However, in Croatia there is a monopoly, for example. in telecommunications lost by the state. And even the state forgives the frequency of the teleoperator the strongest, and he doesn't lower the price, let's say his price is... We citizens, and in the crown crisis a billion kuna have forgiven the concession for the last two years, reduced a billion kunas to the largest, T-Coma which has the largest profit in the Republic of Croatia, and we have the worst Internet. [[You don't understand.]] Why would I ask that? There are areas now online schools have, where children can't, they have to climb up some hill to catch a relationship.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32953	Thank you very much. Please respond to the respected secretary of state. So the monopolies are still... My friend Bulj, thank you very much. [[You don't understand.]] Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32954	Thank you very much. So I think the government can certainly recognise the needs of therefore investment in broadband infrastructure precisely for areas that do not have such access. It is logical that private investments are therefore made where there is a commercial cost-effectiveness of such investments and through the funds available and from the budget of the European Union, so we are planning programmes and projects to allow access to digital and online services that are necessary and what the COVID crisis itself has shown for those areas where such availability is limited.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32955	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32956	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, you know that last week this Parliament and the work of the Parliament was somehow within the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. But what I'm interested in is, I'm interested in the protection of the Chamber's competitive role, and at the moment we opened the problem on the board yesterday, so when one part of it was about the Chamber of craftsmen sitting down and negotiating, they agreed on a number of things, but among other things, they also agreed on the price. The price is something that shouldn't be the subject of conversation. The price is something that would not, or amount, not even be the subject of their agreement. And now there's this thin line that they shouldn't go through. We should take care of this law. It doesn't seem to you that it's really somehow that you should maybe somehow sit at a table, talk a little bit, see with one and another chamber that we don't get into such situations.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32957	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32958	Thank you very much for your question. Yesterday, as you pointed out yourself, we had this conversation on the subject on the committee itself, where it was clearly pointed out, therefore, that the price arrangements were not possible. Here's how no such arrangements are allowed. Chambers may make recommendations or may adopt their acts recommending or providing maximum service prices, which may often be for the purpose of protecting users of such services. Therefore, the minimum should not be defined as a rule, and maximums can be discussed. We are also doing a number of measures, and in terms of liberalisation of the service market, which are precisely in chamber systems trying to influence the fact that they are not regulated or that the fixed prices of certain services are not defined, which is not allowed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32959	The next replica is the respected representative Zeljko Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32960	Dear secretary, I was actually going to ask you a question asked by Mrs. Dark Taritash, but I will continue to have the opportunity to answer us further about those dishes. In fact, we know that the pipes are actually a form of professional integration at the level of the craft chamber where they are actually trying to coordinate and resolve professional and other issues of common interest for the members of that company. Now, these pipes have some sort of work regulations that are defined at the level of the Chamber of Commerce. Since prices can't be discussed, it's punishable. We heard that example from Osijek. Are you then suggesting that this is already regulated by the rules in the Chamber of Commerce so as not to put them in a position to pay fines as they were paid in Osijek?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32961	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32962	Well, I think that there are a lot of other topics that can be discussed without talking about prices. Therefore, such information can certainly be more strongly released through both public space and through the Czech associations that price arrangements are not appropriate and not allowed. But certainly they have their second role, and above all it is to protect the quality of the profession and the quality of the performance of certain activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32963	The next replica is the respected representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32964	Thank you. The Competition Protection Agency shall carry out administrative proceedings in a broad sense and shall rely on the provisions of administrative law in a good way. I therefore have a great deal of restraint and caution towards the introduction of a new legal institute of mandatory talks, which says that the Agency will be empowered to call by written request for the hearing of any representative of entrepreneurs and the evidence will not be able to use for the purpose of imposing sanctions on that natural person or on its property. So here the Agency's powers seem in a way very similar to those of law enforcement authorities. I'm not sure that's the right way. I wonder, have you done an analysis of the practices of similar bodies at European Union level and does this mean that such an institute will be introduced into other similar bodies, for example, in the power of the Commission to decide on conflict of interest and a number of others relying on the area of administrative law?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32965	Thank you. The answer to a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32966	Thank you very much for your question. I cannot comment on whether the same institute will be introduced into other bodies which also decide on the basis of administrative law. However, what I can say is that these legal institutes, which have been proposed here, are directly derived from the directive they rely on and do not go beyond those frameworks. Therefore, the same legal institutes are applied or regulated in such a way in other Member States.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32967	The next replica of respected MPs Vesna Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32968	Thank you very much. Dear State Secretary, my question and replica are on the line of what my colleague Oreskovic was talking about. It is not disputed that this stems from the directive, but as far as it is in accordance with other laws in force in the Republic of Croatia, because in one part of the law, it means that the Agency is empowered to impose certain penalties or to impose an administrative penalty measure which has so far been imposed in the principle of courts, so it is a question of how much it is in conflict with the existing laws on administrative proceedings. And the question is how many training agencies are, or how many human resources there are, that they can conduct such actions at all so as not to in principle come about that because of a lack of resources if the perpetrator of a criminal offence because of someone, because of a procedural error means errors in the process being amnested by some legal persecution, because simply the Agency It's not qualified. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32969	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32970	Thank you very much for asking. This is not the only case in which exactly administrative criminal measures are imposed without being pronounced by the court, so we could not talk about non-compliance with other regulations. As far as the Agency's resources are concerned, the aim is to ensure that there are both human pre-conditions and financial preconditions for the Agency that they can, therefore, implement all that is contained in the Directive or in the law itself. Therefore, the fundamental objective of the directive is to strengthen, on the one hand, the independence of the Agency and the decision-making process, and, on the other hand, to enable it to have all the necessary capacities at its disposal, of course within the framework of the state budget, so that it can carry out these functions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32971	The next replica is Honored Representative Ankica Zmajic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32972	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, this law will specifically prescribe the imposition of fines in the event of an infringement committed by the Association of Entrepreneurs, so I would like to know what kind of injuries these injuries are related to.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32973	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32974	I can't answer you in more detail.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32975	You may disengage yourself, my colleague, thank you. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32976	That, I mean, I can't give you a more detailed answer to this question technically, so here we can, of course, send this one in later communication to the answer. I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32977	Thank you, and the last replica is Honorable Representative Ban Vlahek, she's gone, she's losing her right to speak, so let's go to then, thank you very much, well-respected secretary of state. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first should be spoken on behalf of the Club of Croatian Sovereigns, the respected representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic, is not there, is losing his right to debate, so he will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Honorable Representative Miro Bulj, he is not, he is losing his right to debate, about sorry, before walking there all the time now, well. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32978	Thank you very much. Market competition law and regulation we regularly prescribe, however, we must say that as a competition it would be in the interest of consumers to be in the interest of competition, lower prices, better service quality, products they don't all eat. And that's how it's supposed to be healthy logical. However, I did mention an example here to a respected secretary of state where I mentioned in terms of telecommunications. In the Republic of Croatia is a monopoly I know that, let's say in Croatia only no triba, we are also calling on the EU's single market, so we are harmonising that part because we are part of it. Let's say the teleopers in the Republic have the worst infrastructure, the worst infrastructure, and they're the only ones who don't need a building permit, and the most expensive ones are the Internet. And the largest profit in the EU has teleopers in the Republic of Croatia. And on the issue of the right of service or the right to travel, which the tribunal would not pay to legal or physical persons of the Republic of Croatia. We are not going back here in the history of competition, telecommunications were ours, we gave it, we first threatened national security, but the fact that this government in the fifth month forgave half of around 100 million kuna for the frequency of teleopers, but did not cut the price to consumers. Do you understand what I'm saying? So the government has made a decision to cut down on teleopers that have the highest profit in the Republic of Croatia 42%. Do you understand what I'm talking about? So it's not right for the consumer that so many monopolies, we have a few more teleoperators but this is a monopolist he took the infrastructure because Germany doesn't let it be real, so it's better if we have our own digital network we have secure and the resources and it's gonna be competition to have optical cables and so on, but we po-go-du-je-mo there, which is why I don't know. So it's a competition. So we can also talk about the market competition here are the food products of certain chocolates. Let's say the same price in the RH of some chocolate out there is the same cellophane, and it's not the same quality, even more expensive in the Republic than it was produced there. The market competition has to be restricted somewhere. Let's say some EU countries, for example, have said in local stores that 30% of farm products are sold domestically by 50 producers. So we need to see somewhere, and as far as the subsidized ones are concerned, I know that there must be no subsidisation on the market of some unfair, unfair incentives. So here's an example of Croatian shipbuilding was a time before pre-accession that no shipbuilding should be done, i.e. to support, however, this is also valid for the auto-industry. However, when the crisis was, Angela Merkel was just inciting the auto-industry because she is aware that if the auto-industry fails, this would also fail the German economy. that it will be in a reduced volume. So there's always certain things on the market that are above something. Of course competition is good. The worst way to behave on the market like in Slovenia 9, to get someone from a company that's strong as JANAF to bring in those entrepreneurs who bring in money counters, come this man from the judiciary and come from the authorities, there were also our fellow representatives of the coalition, well not the tribune at all about it now, was a good prosciutto, but that's less important. So we have a problem that competition is all mentioned in the open market, the liberalisation of the market, but it's not just because these big countries see us as a market, because if it were different believe me then we could protect agricultural land as a key resource one key, we could protect our waters if we had the courage and strength to eat and they're on the market. I repeat, so our resources, which we try to use mainly in these areas where we'd like to exploit these resources like water, I don't know this forest, our forests, let's say Gorski Kotar, Slavonia and others, our forests, our potentials, but believe me, Italy certainly encourages its furniture producers to produce, even if we're buying into us quality material, our tree and there produce it, they'll also encourage it. And incentivizing, for example, key things because we saw in this crown a crisis that exclusively affects competitions such as. in agriculture. If we're not self-sufficient, then we're in trouble when the crisis comes, we're in trouble. And of course it's healthy logical that we're going to encourage something that's important to us from national importance, it's food, water, production and so, but in Croatia, in my opinion since we're in the EU, we're more of a market, we're more of a market whether. Well our tourism is more importable than exporting, because our fields would tribal to be processed and in tourism would tribal be our domestic products than our pigs, ham domestic, down here in Drnis I look at the mayor. However, there is something but it is not enough to offer quality. So what we're talking about is a braid prosciutto, a sonic prosciutto, and no pig or pig, I'll say it in Dalmatian. For what? Because the Netherlands and other countries Hungary encourage, encourage and do so much more than Croatia its producers. And we stick to this competition, although you'll say it's not tied up, it's bound to peek at me, peek at me for the survival of the people for the time of Austro-Hungarians on.../incomprehensible/... on Dinara people encouraged no matter what they do with livestock just to survive here and there they came organized very little then with horses and obstacles they went.../incomprehensible/... So to me, the market and the competition are very important. Competitiveness, we create a better quality and cheaper, better product. However, when we look within the EU since we are in the EU, I don't know how much we are in this market competition how much stronger it is that European countries don't finance their own, co-finance and encourage their production of any kind so that we are essentially just the market for food, customers, buyers. Because I don't see the logic here, I don't see that logic, although we'll all say we're for a competition one who's more capable, better products, it'll be cheaper, and to talk about local self-government or other self-governments about the impact of politics on certain things or clans that are described or APN you mention the agency, you have that everything. You have some of those who get public procurement for setting up lighting that is four times more expensive, and basically when you look cheaper, certain things can be inside, so we have this market-specific problem and the market as a market, mainly as far as food production is concerned by me is crucial. In my view, this is my view that Croatia has to be more involved in agriculture but, targetedly, strategically, because our grandmother cannot plant native indigenous seeds without the incentive of the state, without branding, without, cannot compete with GMO products on the market. She can't do that pomidor, I really do that GMO smudger you can play tennis with her for two years won't fall apart, before that ball falls apart, that's what I've said 10 times. E, but our grandmother who plantes and sells the valleys in Dolce or on a towel in Sinj no matter what in Zagreb or in other markets we must encourage these people to stay there. Not only through it, but laborably, we go in line, we go now to ban seed domestically without modification. So literally forbidden because as a tribune to modify the seeds domestically. As a man needs a truck to be driven out to.../incomprehensible/... the triba has a specific location to do this, the triba has the infrastructure for it. So we have to protect things on the market because other countries in some cities, local self-governments and regions 50% of domestic products must be on the drawers of their shops, it must be, so seas. Then it's some kind of help to survive people in these areas. We can't market with some agriculture, technologies, GMO products, treatment of glyphosates and so, but we have the meaning, we have tourism we have the possibility but we are here.../incomprehensible/... we are for the market economy, that's the market. I agree that competition is good. But within the EU framework, I don't know how much Croatia is ready because we wouldn't have 6% of GDP's state secretaries from evicted people. People move out because it's where it affects production, manufacturers and the market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32979	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives will be the SDSS on behalf of which the respected representative Anja Shimprag will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32980	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected state secretaries with a co-worker, distinguished fellow MPs and fellow MPs. The Agency for the Protection of Competition as one of the most active state agencies was founded in 95 and started working 97. In 2019, it resolved 772 cases in the field of competition and prohibited unfair commercial practices, and for established infringements of the law in those areas it imposed administrative measures of 4.1 million kuna. The Agency protects competition in particular by creating benefits for consumers and equal conditions for all market entrepreneurs who, acting in accordance with existing rules and competing in the market of quality, price, innovation of their products and services, contribute to the overall development of the economy of the Republic of Croatia. One of the most important tasks is to promote a culture of competition, to detect restrictions on competition, and to be contained in laws and regulations that raise obstacles to the free and fair competition of entrepreneurs on the market. For several reasons, the Agency is at its own turning point in addition to these demanding amendments and additions to the law, unfortunately the chairman of the Youth Cerovac Council passed away at the end of 2020 as a result of the COVID-19 disease. He was one of the biggest experts in competition rights not only in Croatia, but also wider, giving a clear indication in which direction it should continue to develop competition rights. In the light of the amendments and additions to the Law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will issue a public invitation to propose candidates for president and members of the Council. The legal basis for the calculation of salary for the President of the Council, vice-presidents and members, as we have heard here, will also be regulated in such a way as to lay down a base for the calculation of salaries of government officials. National competition legislation should be brought into line with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018, which is often referred to as the ECN Plus Directive. The Agency shall become a general regulatory body responsible for protecting competition in all markets and the legal position, independence, organisation and resource of the Agency will be brought in line with the Directive, which will provide us with the institutional, financial and operational independence of the Agency. It is new that in a decision establishing a distortion of competition, the Agency may also determine a measure of business monitoring or a structural measure by entering into a prohibited agreement or abuse of the ruling position of the entrepreneur, taking into account proportionality. Amendments and additions to the Act will seek to ensure that the Council of the Agency and the official bodies of the Agency's professional service exercise their legal powers independently of political and other external influence and without asking and receiving instructions from the Government or any other public or private entity in the exercise of their duties, without prejudice to the law of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to lay down rules on general policy which are not related to sectoral research or procedures which are within the competence of the Agency. The proposal for a law also introduces a new legal institute for mandatory talks to which the Agency is authorised before the proceedings are initiated in order to establish sufficient indications for the initiation of the procedure under official duty, but also during the procedure to call for the hearing of any representative of the entrepreneurs or associations, any representative of other legal persons and any natural person, if such persons have, may have information which is relevant for the application of the provisions of this Act. Amendments and additions shall be introduced by the Institute of Arrangements in the procedures and the establishment of prohibited agreements as the Institute of Daily Monetary Penalty which will enable the Agency to punish entrepreneurs and associations of entrepreneurs who do not comply with certain requirements of the Agency. It will allow the Agency to be released from the payment of the fine of that participant of the prohibited horizontal agreement or secret cartel which first informs the Agency of the prohibited horizontal agreement and provides information, facts and evidence enabling the Agency to initiate the procedure. The process of building domestic competition law as well as the process of harmonising domestic and European competition law has not been completed. It is a permanent process, not only at legislative level, but also at our practical level. Constant efforts should be made to promote a culture of law and competition policy. However, we can freely say that there is a high level of harmonisation of the Croatian and European law institute, and these amendments and additions are only a step towards the above. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32981	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the Homeland Movement, and will speak on behalf of the Club respected representative Vesna Vucilović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32982	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Respected secretary of state with an associate this time, colleagues and colleagues. What brings us these amendments and additions to the Law? As the State Secretary put it nicely, it means harmonising with a directive aimed at empowering national competition agencies and in some way harmonising at European Union level the actions that have so far been different. This, of course, requires that agencies have sufficient powers and tools to carry out all the activities envisaged and, as is the State Secretary and said, it will probably lead to certain increases in the necessary resources both financial and human. Why has the European Commission adopted this Directive? They have found that 85% of cases are generally solved by national agencies are not the same treatment in different Member States and because of certain cross-border flows and services and goods it is necessary to even it out so that all these tasks and all the functions that the agencies have are able to perform in an optimal manner. Based on this, entrepreneurs would be given equal competition, mainly on the EU's internal market and the proper functioning as it is otherwise imagined. Inefficient implementation violates competition for those entrepreneurs operating in accordance with the law and, more importantly, undermines consumer confidence in the internal market and, in particular, under these pandemic conditions, when much has been transferred to digital platforms and many economic operators have intensified their business in the online segment. Under these conditions, the same conditions in all Member States and the same application have become extremely important not only for entrepreneurs but also for consumers. The application of this Directive should not bring about any excessive changes to us, but some changes will still come, one of the powers to impose administrative penalties or fines, the agency has so far had those powers already infringing courts, imposed fines. As a rule, they did so relatively rarely, at low levels, which in certain parts of the entrepreneur created perceptions of how the provisions of the law could be violated without appropriate sanctions, which is certainly not good. In addition, national authorities are required to be more efficient, so that they are given certain investigative powers, sanctioning instruments and sufficient resources accordingly, and then, in principle, the Agency must have independent participation, necessary resources, powers and powers of sanctioning. The question arises then what about the courts, how trained they are, although we are looking at some reports that should monitor the food, the decisions of the first-degree bodies, but according to some of the indicators that we are getting, our courts should be sufficiently qualified and have sufficient resources, although they complain about it. One of the significant powers is unannounced investigations by which national authorities collect key evidence to determine the prohibited agreements or abuse of the ruling position of entrepreneurs. This refers to search of both business spaces and private spaces. These powers had a certain number of bodies but were not in practice applied at all, with us there is a provision in force and the Agency had practice and used those provisions regarding business premises and there is no data on the conduct of private space searches in practice although that provision already exists. What is the change in relation to the existing ones are the mandatory discussions where competition authorities are able to call on any representative of the entrepreneurs or associations or any natural person who might possess relevant information because it has shown in practice that the conduct of the talks is a useful instrument for gathering evidence and assisting competition bodies, to assess the value of the evidence already collected, puts the agency in a certain privileged position in relation to some other institutions, so that some other institutions may be able to obtain those powers but it is not in the jurisdiction of this ministry and I would not now go with a debate in this direction. This is news and it has not been until now, so these informed talks in the Croatian law, and in principle this changes these amendments and additions. One of the elements of the independent action under the directive is the establishment of priorities in work. So if the competent authority has to take all reported cases into work, there may be a case of unnecessary energy consumption that could be directed at solving cases which, by their impact on the functioning of the market, are more significant. An interesting part of the directive that talks about this because it is said that focus should be on internal market-injurious injuries, and the question is whether these bodies are mature enough, ready and equipped to do so and whether it will then compromise the decision on purely domestic injuries, means how to set those priorities, more importantly, whether it is more important that what is happening on the EU internal market or on the domestic market, also a little account should be taken. Because in the end, however, most of these injuries have a cross-border effect and this element in the directive is then somehow expected and understood. All these changes should be seen as another step in the process of emancipation of a body that protects competition and realistically, this process takes time, takes place in parallel with the processes of maturing the culture of competition, political culture and strengthening the rule of law. In the transition countries in which we count and Croatia is of paramount importance, and we have seen in the past days how a bar which has been a symbol of the way we operate has been a symbol of a number of companies, because 30 years after the fall of communist regimes in Eastern Europe, there are still institutions and businesses in Croatia that operate in a way that has not happened. It is known as “work, not radio, play your radio” by many is still very attractive and are ready to defend it at any cost. Individual statements in recent days have been part of such a way of thinking and acting. Also, staffing the state in economic operators that we have seen on the example of Podravka is another nonsens because if they are Chocolate, Pudding and Vegeta strategic products then everything could be a strategic product without exception. The role of the state in the economy is stronger from day to day, and this has been caused by the epidemic, and it is becoming a growing problem. We must never forget that entrepreneurship does not exist without democracy and democracy does not exist without free media, so strengthening entrepreneurship and the market economy for young democracy such as Croatia is of paramount importance. In a country where entrepreneurs protest, and not workers, we need to ask ourselves whether we are going backwards instead of forwards. If we are, then the consent of the Workers' Front and HDZ to abolish the HGK's mandatory membership fee is quite understandable. Our democracy is the path we're just building, it's fragile, and we need to be as careful as the ghost of the totalitarian regime that we came out of in the '90s would not return under the exception of health care and the uncertain future. As a member of the EU, we should continue to build and strengthen institutions that promote the market economy and free market for equal rights for all and not just for the chosen ones. In this context, the Homeland Movement supports these changes and additions. There are certain things that are in collegiate with, which we think might lead to some problems, a little bit more about it in an individual debate and in principle about that we will probably make a few amendments for this proposal to the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32983	The next Club of Representatives will be the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Damir Habian will speak, please. Now, before we begin, the esteemed representative has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32984	Yes, the Rules of Procedure in Art. 238. The colleague was a difficult liar, there is absolutely no agreement between the Workers' Front and HDZ but there is agreement between the Homeland Movement and HDZ in all the flossules that we have heard here which colleague repeats from the National Development Strategy, and from this report that we have received and should not then be questioned and, as should not be questioned by any agreement of the HDZ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32985	Thank you very much. And you know as well as anyone who listened to you that it was a replica and not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning. Here you go, Comrade Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32986	Thank you very much, dear vice president, respected secretary of state, representatives of AZTN, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of Competition. In particular, the existing legislative framework in the field of competition protection constitutes the 2009 Competition Protection Act and the Amending and Supplements Act, which is in force from 1 July 2013, as well as other sublaws necessary for their implementation. With the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU, AZTN has the power to apply directly the provisions of the Law on the Protection of Competition and the provisions of the legal property of the EU governing the protection of competition, and in particular those relating to the provisions of the Article. 101. The Treaty on the Functioning of the EU on prohibited agreements between entrepreneurs as well as the provision of Article 2 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 102. The Treaty on the Functioning of the EU on the abuse of the ruling position of entrepreneurs. On 11 December 2018, Directive 2019/1 of the European Parliament and of the Council authorising the authorities of the Member States responsible for competition and for more effective implementation of competition rules and ensuring the proper functioning of the internal market, and given the above, it is also necessary to bring national legislation into line with the Directive in question. Introductoryly, it should be stressed that the area of competition is important for both consumers and entrepreneurs, as well as for the economy as a whole. This ensures better supply and quality, lower prices of products and services, foster innovation, and ultimately affects economic growth itself. Provisions of Art. 101st and 102nd. Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, or Art. 8 and 13. The Law on the Protection of Competition, which regulates the issue of abuse of the ruling position and of prohibited agreements, is a matter of public order and should be effectively applied throughout the EU in order to ensure a non-infringement of competition in the internal market. With regard to prohibited agreements, if companies had agreed to reduce competition instead of competing with each other, there would have been a breach of the same conditions for anything that would certainly have adverse consequences for consumers but also for companies. This is why all agreements between companies which aim to or result in distortions of competition are prohibited. In view of the abuse of the ruling position, such behaviour is prohibited by EU competition law and by a dominant position in this regard is meant by the economic power of a company that enables it to prevent effective competition in the relevant markets by giving it a great opportunity to act independently against competitors. What changes everything with changes to the law? First of all, it should be stressed that the position of AZTN is set up as a market regulator, we could finally say, therefore something such as HERA, HACOM or HANFA, or in other words, the agency itself is defined as an independent and independent legal person with public authority performing the tasks of the General, National and Regulatory Authority. Amended Art. Paragraph 26. 2 is prescribed that the Agency exercises its powers independently and impartially, in the interest of effective and uniform application of the Competition Protection Act and the provisions of Article 6(2). 101st and 102nd. The Treaty on the Functioning of the EU. As I have pointed out in the introduction of the directive in question, the Republic of Croatia is obliged to transpose that legislative act into national legislation and, as we know, the directive sets out the objective that Member States must achieve and each Member State independently decides on how that objective will be achieved. The Intangible Directive stresses that the operational independence of the national administrative authorities responsible for competition should be strengthened in order to ensure an effective, uniform application of the Member State concerned. 101 and 102, and ensure that it is protected from external interventions or political pressure. It's just a new article. 26. The Law on the Protection of Competition provides for the Agency’s stated role, and in particular paragraph 10 and paragraph 11. Another important paper refers to the new possibility obtained by the Agency or by the authority to reject the initiative to initiate the procedure if the initiative under consideration considers that it is not a priority for resolution. Namely, the directive in question, which we transpose into national legislation, has just been laid down that the national administrative authorities in charge of competition should be able to set priorities for their procedures for the implementation of Articles 101 and 102. In order to effectively use its resources and to focus on preventing and eliminating anti-market behaviour that distorts competition in the internal market. It is important to stress that the Agency is against such a solution and, in accordance with the directive transposed into national legislation, a legal remedy is or may be brought before the High Court of Justice. As a newspaper, Article 65 so far has changed. The Law on the Protection of Competition, which prescribed the possibility of the release or reduction of the administrative measure, is now under the proposal of a new law on fines. It is a penitentiary institute already in existence in the current law, but in accordance with the directive in question it is further discussed by the institute. In this way, the Agency will be able to free the payment of the fines of that participant of the prohibited horizontal agreement or cartel or secret cartel, which first informs the Agency of the same and delivers the information, facts, evidence that enables the initiation of the procedure or the first participant of the prohibited horizontal agreement or secret cartel that delivers evidence that enables the Agency to determine the infringement of the provisions of the Competition Protection Act and Article 101. In the event that the Agency has already initiated the procedure, it did not have sufficient evidence to establish the cartel. In view of this, it should be noted that the programme of repentance is one of the most important tools of the Agency in the fight against cartels precisely because it is about prohibited agreements between each other's competitors on the market, which in most cases are secret and their discovery is extremely difficult. The Agency is still in November 2010 and, when the Regulation on the criteria for the prudential action has entered into force, and in particular the Regulation on the criteria for the release or reduction of the administrative measure has been authorised to implement a punitive programme for cartel participants. This paper is therefore only subject to more detailed arrangements of the already existing Institute and is also authorised by the Agency to grant access to statements made by repenters or proposals for settlement to parties in the procedure to which the statements and proposals for the settlement relate and for the purpose of achieving their defence rights in the procedure. In this way, a certain balance is actually achieved in the process itself. Furthermore, I would like to commend the proposal to amend the laws relating to the Institute of Notification of the established factual situation. Therefore, according to the legislation so far, before the Agency adopted a final solution, the parties were informed in the procedure of the preliminary facts to which the parties were then entitled to be shown themselves in writing, to make their observations and to propose further evidence and witnesses. Here, personally, as a lawyer, I can testify that this institute in practice was really unnecessary and I would actually say it and it's inconsistencies because it's a procedural action that is certainly delaying the procedure. In fact, the entrepreneur covered by the application was, in fact, almost identical to the same one, and the procedure itself stalled, which I am ultimately sure is not in the interest of any party in the process. The paper also introduces the Institute of Negotiations in the procedures for establishing prohibited agreements. In addition to the above, we believe that this Institute will also affect the already effective and economical nature of the procedure itself before the Agency. In this amendment, it will be possible for the party against whom the Competition Protection Act is based to carry out the procedure for the conclusion of the prohibited agreement to submit a written proposal to the Arrangement Agency within 30 days, within 30 days of the date of receipt of the notice of the preliminary facts in the procedure. In this way it is possible to... the procedure before the Agency to voluntarily admit the injury referred to in Article 8(10) and Article 101 thereof. [[You don't understand.]] The contract and accepts or makes a written statement that it will not contest or file an action against the Agency's solution, and in return, if the Agency accepts the proposed settlement, it will also reduce the amount of fines ranging from 20 to 30% of that amount that would potentially be imposed on that entrepreneur. It will certainly be also follow-up to the impact of this new institute, or to what extent it will affect the reduction of the procedure itself in front of the Agency, or the number of entrepreneurs that will use it. I would also look back on just what was said before. So there was talk here about punitive measures. In fact, they are in our legislation from the first basic law that has entered into force only what is changed by this law, so the term itself is no longer a punitive measure, but a fine. There has also been a lot of talk here about state aids that have not actually been the subject of the Competition Protection Act since 2013 but of the State Aid Act, or are no longer in charge of the Competition Protection Agency, but of the Ministry of Finance, which is being supervised by the Commission, and which is decided by the European Commission on their approval. So it would be good to take care of that when we're actually talking about this agenda point. Thank you very much. And, of course, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support these amendments and additions to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32987	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives will be the HSS and HSU on behalf of which the respected representative Zeljko Lenart will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32988	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Market competition, I think, is one of the major problems in the Republic of Croatia, which we will find very difficult to bring to that level in the European Union. He says in the law of the sentence: “Secure independence and resources for the work of the Competition Agency.” So today, the Constitutional Court is not independent. The police are not independent of us. TV is not independent. The judiciary isn't independent. So how can we expect the Competition Agency to be independent? I don't believe that story. Let anyone get mad. The provisions which are written in these amendments will only be indicated by the institute of settlements in the procedures of establishing prohibited agreements, the possibility of present and former directors, managers and other employees of entrepreneurs who have applied for the release from fines under the province's programme, the limitation of sentences, the execution of fines. Here are the terms that just confirm what I just said. Obsolete, penitent, liberating, cover-up is what follows all the injustices in the Republic of Croatia. Market competition is one of those things that, due to injustice, has thrown many people out of business who have fired many people from their companies, moved to some other parts of the world, given them to act economically or simply left this Croatia in which, as I said, the Constitutional Court is not independent either. We've had a recent case in Sibenik, a tragic one that can also be undermined by what we're talking about today. I'm going to touch one case in agriculture where there's crime, incorrect competition, and a lot of other crimes that can be committed below. It's about Sedlic group, their company's daughter Agronatura whose owner fled to Bosnia and Herzegovina after his family's economy... Buying corn from farmers from Moslavina, Posavina, Slavonia. [[You don't understand.]] People were damaged by 18 and a half million kuna in 2019. So, almost a year and a half since they reported it to Uskok, the police, I don't know who they didn't report it to. To this day, they have not received a single kuna. Just before I spoke to a representative of the family holding that was damaged by half a million kuna, and it was made in a way that at a time when there was a large supply of corn, when there was no storage capacity and when this group of companies that I numbered offered several lipa more than others on the market. People brought in their corn for a few months. They invested considerable resources in it to produce it. Mostly their capital because they didn't get anything on their pretty eyes, their work, their mechanization, their knowledge almost a year and a half after that to this gentleman who's been taken by half a million kunas of goods is offered some sort of settlement in some kind of advance, a bankruptcy of 70,000 kuna per war. The tragedy is that no one is doing anything. No one, USKOK, the police, the judiciary and we are talking about the independence of the Competition Agency. Where is this Croatia going? How long will we have the Sibenik case in the future? You can see that these cases are getting more and more common than Zavadlav in Split, than in front of the government a few months ago, from this case in Sibenik. Their common denominator doesn't differ much. They all felt some sort of injustice justified or unjust. But they did the worst. When no one could solve their injustice they took justice into their own hands, at least they thought so. Whether this is right or not, but safety in Croatia is significantly disrupted because we do not have independent agencies, we do not have an independent judiciary. It's all managed behind some curtains, behind some doors. Some authorising officer gives orders that everything will take place, as well as in this competition. So I don't trust any of these laws anymore. I don't even believe in agencies anymore. I don't even believe in the judiciary anymore until we finally get real certificates of independence, because dear gentlemen, we're all being paid by taxpayers. All of us are paid by taxpayers of all agencies, all ministries, the complete government, all state officials who work in the institutions of the Republic of Croatia, and those who pay have just been unprotected and robbed in many, many perfided and cunning ways by people who are protected, and those who should worry that it is not easy to write laws, amendments of laws and simply in this state of justice and justice. I'm asking you. When we transposed the regulations of the European directives into our legislation, do you think this case I told you could happen in Germany? It doesn't occur to anyone in Germany to act like that because the state will pay for what he was supposed to pay for, and then they'll deal with it in a well-known way and they'll never think of it again. I know you may be speeding up the process with the penitents. That the penitent may report some cases that would never be revealed, but I have not seen a provision in this amendment to the law or in this law where it is said that the penitent can be only once or the penitent can be repeatedly. So today in one cartel you will be a penitent, and tomorrow you will be in another cartel penitent, and until someone in that cartel kills you you will be a penitent and you will break the law, you will benefit from the opportunity to gain material benefits for yourself because of your behaviour, because of the unrest that you will bring to the market and ruin many honest entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32989	The next Club of Representatives is that of the Centre and GLAS on behalf of which the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32990	In some normal and happy circumstances, the Law on the Protection of Competition would be one of the most important laws discussed in one parliament. In our case, this causes some mild discomfort, but during the very speaking of the word market and competition, because Croatia does not have a market level, every statistical information on the state of our economy says that. We have a very small number of entrepreneurs who do not do business with the state in any way. And when we talk about the competition, our excessive territorial fragmentation leads to the fact that somehow they're always doing better those entrepreneurs who have a man in the public procurement office. When we talk about the agency itself that was founded back in '95, and it's doing business and it's started working since '97, it's hard to say that the agency has achieved its purpose if we just remember a few entrepreneurs like Ivica Todoric and the creation of Agrokor concerts, so we really cared about the balance of competition and so looking through the fingers of an entrepreneur who was somehow connected to the structures of the authorities. And a whole series of others. Today, some unusual preferential treatment may also have a number of public companies that have a kind of monopoly position, as well as those in which prominent officials like Krsticic played a key role in supervisory committees or other bodies. But that's all another topic. What my position is about the law itself and its nomotechnical complexity is somewhat ambivalent. On the one hand, I always say that the main problem of Croatia is that there is no strong and independent institution built and I always point out that the goal of my political action and work is to build such institutions, put them on their feet, to further strengthen them. But that old Latin saying says everything has to be measured. This measure in some way determines or dictates the EU in a specific case of the 2018 Directive. Now, my question is that whatever the directive is, we should not easily accept everything in that directive. As far as the directive of December 2018 is concerned, this means that only 2 years is in force, in force. The question is how some institutes will be interpreted and what their consequences will be at European law level, with us having some extra weight. So, every directive must in some way be incorporated into our domestic legal order, and we here give the Agency powers and powers that are grossly bounced from those who have other bodies that fall within the area of administrative law. On the one hand, perhaps such an approach can help others, other bodies alike, to gain greater independence, to be more efficient and efficient in their work, but I am not sure that this is an appropriate way, given that, as I have already pointed out in the replica, some of the powers that we give to the Agency are more similar to the authorities of the inquisition process, the authorities of criminal proceedings than something that is appropriate to me in the area of application of administrative law. What are the concrete measures? So here's that new legal institute mandatory conversation. Therefore, the Agency will be authorised to call for the hearing of any representative of entrepreneurs or any third party, now to try to shorten, and the information that may be useful in any case, but thus the information obtained must not be used as evidence for the purpose of giving sanctions. Let us, for example, compare this with the powers of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest when it determines the conflict of interest of officials. Imagine that the commission can invite anyone to some mandatory informative conversation. Well, this assembly would be on its feet, setting itself on fire if it were necessary for such authority not to be allowed. Then let's go one step further. So, it's one thing to build an institution's independence, and it's another thing to give that institution excessively strong powers unbalanced and thus a broad discretionary decision-making field like we're now giving the agency when it says that it's not going to deal with some case because here it's estimated that it's not a priority right now and that it doesn't hurt a very competitive competition, or it's going to bid on a settlement to forgive an entrepreneur. And in the end, who is a penitent entrepreneur? Imagine we've got penitent officials? How would that sound? Imagine that we have officials of penitents to whom the Committee for Decision on a conflict of interest would forgive sanctions or punishment or, in some ways, reveal key information that the commission could not have come in a similar way. Where does that lead to? If in such a way we introduce punitive programmes that will be non-transparent, not public enough because the agency should be public according to its work, but its public standard today is below the level of public which, for example, the Commission has. And there is actually no interest in the media to follow it in this amount, so that our citizens and entrepreneurs know what are the criteria that the agency is taking in determining which case it will deal with at all, which order, which intensity, and which standards determine what is considered to be an appropriate or inappropriate competition. So there's no such thing. We are here creating a strange beak that I say on one side, in principle, support the empowerment and strengthening of independent agencies and bodies, but not without control, not without balance, and not in a way that deviates from the overall social political legal order. Imagine, after all, that the Tax Administration, the Tax Administration, and it is equally important to have the possibility of unannounced searches of any official public premises or private premises. Imagine, after all, that the commission may enter the private rooms of officials to see if there are valuable movables and artistic paintings there. That's what I'm talking about. We cannot think without thinking, we cannot as mere blind copyists of European directives and norms introduce something into our legal order not thinking about what the consequences may have. A colleague, Vucilović, pointed out that this provision on unannounced searches already exists in our legal order, but that when we talk about searching private rooms, we were not used. Well, there's a reason that the bodies themselves, especially people who have some kind of legal knowledge, eventually the agency, given its long internship, has a certain developed practice, is aware of some implications, so they didn't open Pandora's box. But with the very proposal of the law and its entry into force, Pandora's box is open. And I'm not for it to be easy without thinking to give such winds to disintegrate, and to say not to bring all our systems to a level, not to establish what is the key to democracy, which is a system of mutual brakes and balances and balances between all public bodies and the branches of the authorities that control each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32991	Now we move on to an individual debate and the first one will speak to the respected representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32992	Thank you very much. Market competition and agency of these changes which aim to balance the i.e. to be an equal market, to have competition equal, but to me as I said it is good for, on the market we have those who are more successful in having such an agency but it is a question of everything that this agency has done so far and how far it has managed to preserve the market to be competitive, to be, it is a question. However, I would once again open the key issue of domestic producers here, for example. in agriculture. I will always say that, the domestic producers are in a position to oppose, on the European market against them when multinational companies that are strong, large, the market is such, they can compete with the price, they have cheaper production. Our rural areas have much more expensive production, more expensive energy, more difficult transport, few people, and in fact that would be the price we would like to protect. That should be the main point, the critical point that we're going to be protecting on the market. And it is our obligation that we domestic producers primarily protect our farmers and we must strive to do so regardless of what we call on the EU market, what we have an agency, sanctions, this is what it is that multinational companies dictate the market mainly as far as the market itself is concerned by this trade itself. And Croatia is becoming more and more transformed into, we into consumers of foreign products, we are more and more trade foreign products. And that's a fact and it's also a question of quality that's proven to be much worse quality in the same cellophane. So in the same cellophane, it doesn't matter if it's chocolate or something else in the same cellophane, but it's much worse quality, and we pay more. It's about the trade of our farmers. Not only farmers and even producers, we would have to because of our underdevelopment mainly because of the poor functioning of the incentive system, the support, this is the topic before, public procurement which is also bad justice, we should leave our people in Slavonia, Zagora, Gorski kotar, forests, here we can take our tree here which is quality to go to other countries where we produce additional value and our people leave these parts. It means that, however, I usually mention Germany's habit of auto-industry, when the crisis was in 2008, Germany also subsidized its customers in its country di-products, its citizens to buy the products of German vehicles and encourage them, and it also encouraged the auto-industry because they were aware if the auto-industry failed, regardless of the EU directives and this Regulation, the directives and what they had adopted. It's a fact, and you know it. While we were destroying shipbuilding, which was mismanagement, and we were branded in shipbuilding as the main export product, we were supposed to be the main export product with strong construction companies and the like. However, we did everything the other way around, we listened obediently to everything and destroyed everything. And now our highest-quality labor force working on German ships in shipyards, smugglers, and in us we have a chaos. So that market it's nice to hear, but somewhere the state has to be liberalized, to be the same for everyone, to be that way, but it's not exactly like that. It's impossible for someone else to come and have a teleoper to come to Germany that would be impossible, first of all for safety. And secondly, that they have the largest HT teleoperator in the Republic of Deutsche Telekom i.e. But there's a name called HT only that it has Croatian that it has the biggest profit in Europe not in the EU and in the Republic of Croatia we know that. But we also know that on the market, that's the question I'm asking in the crown crisis is the government in the 5th or 6th month, I can't get enough of it, has forgiven half of the teleoperate concession, but citizens remain at the same price.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32993	Thank you very much. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Matko Kuzmanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32994	Thank you, Chairman. Namely, counterpart Bulj if there was a competition in Croatia, then the agency would have something to protect. But in Croatia, the competition looks a little different, so I'll read you just one quote that was recently because we were all witnesses to it, and it says "a telegram is transmitted in the videos detailing who needs to get the job, but also how it should happen. And then it explains that there is nothing to fear that has been done in the City of Požega before and that nothing has happened to anyone because everything is covered," so I wonder whether a positive opinion of such a concluded job by the Competition Agency will mean that something was practically done under the law? As long as Croatia is on the one a.b.c., which is anything but Croatia from the same funds we were just talking about, it means we're talking about Western capital that might enter our homeland, but it makes it impossible for them precisely because of this local corruption that exists at all levels.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32995	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32996	Unfortunately, the local partner who destroys competition, competition ultimately cheaper service, cheaper product to the consumer, is now visible in Banovina. In Croatia there are, however, small companies or individuals, crafts that have their own banisters, construction machines, if it were united they could do it, but they will do someone third, some foreign multinational company that will essentially give sub-contracts and basically they will get profits, and our people will work for small money. So you could do that if you wanted to. I know this looks like, however, on the market as you mentioned to Požega, is Požega, it's the club Slovonska 9, it's just being transferred to the locals, so in Slovenia 9 it's now the most famous, it's an octopus with a thousand tentacles, and mainly to local self-government, and especially to my and your county. That's how it works. What a market agency, what a market.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32997	Thank you. The next is the replica of respected MP Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32998	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Bull. You often talk about agriculture and I fully understand and understand you, I come from that agricultural area myself and now we talk about competition, and we often try to protect these farmers from unfair competition and from these low import prices. Remember only swine fever in Germany when the countries of the Far East banned the import of pork, a surplus appeared, ended up with us and our farmers had no one to place at any normal price. We see and now there are still these products on shelves, and enough is enough in Croatia to just repack the import product and get the mark that it is originating in Croatia. I understand everything you're saying and I fully support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u32999	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33000	My colleagues, Vucilović, you are innocent from my neighborhoods, your husband is of origin and I understand that you understand both Slavonia and Dalmatian Zagora, as well as other parts. However, the fact is that today we can have our brands of Dalmatian, Vrgorjek, Drenjski, Slavonski kulen, all these brands, but the fact is that we import pork. We don't have Dalmatian prosciutto in the sense that we made it possible for our people, we encouraged them to produce in their villages products from a cili cycle from animal breeding to, we don't. We import, for example, I don't know from the Netherlands, Hungary's GMO-fed soy pork that doesn't see Croatian, sees only in the truck when it passes through the slaughter. So we have a huge problem and the competition literally doesn't exist. We need to urgently protect domestic production...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33001	Thank you. The next individual debate will be the respected representatives of Anka Mrak Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33002	Thank you very much. Dear vice president of HS, the distinguished secretary of state with an associate. So before us is the proposal to amend and supplement the Competition Protection Act. No one should be surprised logically and normally as far as the market is concerned, the competition that causes this to happen with us and the questionnaire is above our heads and opens a much broader topic than the changes and additions of the law itself. So I'm reading these changes and additions to the law in three groups. One group is where you actually statusally edit the general national regulatory body responsible for protecting competition, in accordance with EU directives and regulations, and that is quite all right, you have to do this, you have to show that it is an independent body. The second part where it is coordinated or it could say that the first part of a particular concept is also a particular legal institute, so after a certain experience, and that part is part of the amendment and addition of the law that I think all laws simply have to go through. The second part of what causes us absolutely some and questionnaires above our heads, the dilemma is that so-called. It's a penance program. The penance program hasn't been since yesterday, the penance programme has been since 2010. I don't expect us here to hear what it's like, what the experiences are, but of course you can't find out who joined the secret cartel unless someone who secretly teamed up doesn't come and say and confesses. So, the only thing you can hear in the papers in the media space is that there were certain secret cartels and others and who hung out there, under what conditions and someone who decides to be a penitent of it you can deliver from it, you can find out some information and facts and evidence. It is interesting always that when we go and change and supplement the law, and this is about a change and a supplement that is, we already have 11 years of experience, which is an experience which is a topic that would be even better to define what experience we have had with the trial, with solutions that have been made by administrative courts or by the High Administrative Court that we, what happened here, have been pointed out. Did you do something by amending the law to make some sort of adjustment here? We also have this European legislation, we have Croatian legislation, we have experience, some countries have long experience from us, and there will certainly be different topics and different dilemmas. I'm asking you the questions I asked you the moment you had the opening statement is something that was open on the Committee on Economy and I think it's extremely important. Why did people, when they came into existence, grow up because they joined people to exchange their experiences, to perform together on a market and to be as good on that market as possible. So, there were these Czech associations. Since then, there have also been chambers in each other's chambers that are broader in each other's experience and what was said yesterday they also agree on some prices. It's something he can't negotiate. So when someone told you I was and I was at the chamber meeting there was a bunch of cobblers and products I don't know shoes and they agreed how much I couldn't be the tallest, the lowest, the subject was the price, someone came to you and it would be a secret cartel at the end. Now, I think it's the interest of all of us and that we need to read it so that it doesn't happen, that it's as little as possible. And that's why I think, among other things, what we forget every time, we forget to sit at the table, to talk, to see those thin lines and thin lines where they are. Europe has some kind of experience that we're going to be fair, we don't have, we couldn't get, we didn't even have time to gain. Let's see what's appropriate for Croatia, let's see where the problem is. Because I'm sure it's not good, it's absolutely not good, we're changing the laws, we're harmonising with EU directives, we're making some solutions then those solutions are falling to us in administrative courts, and then we're finally coming to the Constitutional Court, where the Constitutional Court even declares that they're anti-constitutional, and then we defend ourselves with EU directives. Let's see, so I'm one of those fans. The EU, but we really need to be realistic here. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33003	Thank you. We have one replica, a respected representative of Željko Pavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33004	The honourable MPs of this bill will be allowed AZTN to free the penitent from paying the fine if they have reported a cartel or a secret cartel to AZTN, but it will also be possible to release the penitentiary penalty if AZTN delivers to the AZTN and the data that were insufficient to initiate the procedure. Also, according to the proposal of this law, the responsible persons who have been and who are now at the head of that institution that submitted the request are also released. Since it has been happening in Croatia and in larger and more difficult processes that measures have been breached, that there have been secret tips about who is listening, how it is listening, whether you think this is sufficiently defined in this law so that it does not happen in this law or in this example.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33005	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33006	Thank you very much, colleague Pavić, for asking this question, among other things, is the main issue of the law hitting the core of the law. So what I always think, I think no law is carved into stone, that every law should be changed depending on the experience we have. I think that for and absolutely I am convinced of the Croatian state it is good that we are a member of the EU, that every law is better for us, that we respect the directives, but we need to look at the frameworks in which we are. In order not to be the result of these amendments and the addition of the law, let's see, and then suddenly, I hope that it won't be so, but that the agency is not buried with some quasi-poors who are going to be secretly joining or secret cartels declaring something that in the end turns out that it wasn't at all, but in fact on the market in which it is in this way challenging its position on the market, it certainly wouldn't be good. If this is a result The experience we've had is good, if it's not going to be good. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33007	Thank you. The next debate will be respected representatives of Katarina Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33008	This law, as well as the Competition Protection Agency, are part of the legal and institutional EU framework and of the European acquis, which are tailored to the neoliberal principles of so-called the free market. The framework rejects and prohibits intervention and protectionism policies as a form of development economic model and strategy. The free competition framework which nominally introduces the same market rules for everything corresponds primarily to those economies and those of capital that are already in the dominant market position in view of technological superiority and high productivity. Such a framework does not correspond to smaller and less productive countries and economies and their companies because they cannot compete with those who are already technologically superior or productive in a market game under the same rules. The consequence is, as we all know, subordination, deepening or retaining economic backlogs, shutting down production, shutting down industry, an increasingly unfavourable economic structure and position in the global division of labour. Undeveloped capitalist economies, pardoned, most developed capitalist economies began to force free competition rules through international institutions such as the WTO, the World Bank, the IMF through developmental trade bilateral agreements, but only when their corporations became dominant in global proportions, while before that they were using state interventionism policies such as nationalisation of strategic industries, industrial policies, picting viners strategies, competitive devaluations, currencies, indicative economic planning, and also benefiting from state protectionism policies such as import taxes and tariffs, not tariff barriers to more competitive imports and so on. Such strategies were used by the most developed countries in the emerging phase to prevent technologically superior parties from being threatened, pushed or subordinated to their domestic markets, and until they developed enough to be equal in domestic and global markets. On free market policies, they especially exist, meaning European countries towards less developed economies such as Croatia in order to get in uninterruptedly, to go in and dominate their markets in order to design them in a way that suits them, to draw resources cheaply educated labour, such a strategy is called... means the rejection of ladders, simplifiedly rich countries, reject the ladders that themselves have climbed to the top and thus prevent developing countries from using policies and strategies that they themselves used in this rise. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] EU rules on the protection of competition embedded in many law on public procurement procedures ensure that bigger jobs and projects, especially those financed by EU funds, are in a better position for the strongest corporation in the countries of the centre to import equipment from the centre and thus end funds in the centre again. It is ironic that now that Chinese who are more competitive, the European Commission is insolent and the strongest economies such as Germany and their industrialist association are protesting unfair competition from the east. Croatia has destroyed a significant part of the industry, especially exporting such as shipyards, thanks to the principles and rules prescribed by laws such as this, means ban on vertical subsidies, ban on industrial policies that will aimly encourage certain companies and sectors, ban on protecting domestic production from more competitive imports, etc. Such laws and institutions in charge of their implementation shall play a role of a kind of forced manager who imposes market rules and demands that his position be excluded and protected from democratic pressure and influence requiring different policies, even explicitly written where it is said "will ensure that the council and officials and professional services of the Agency exercise their powers and laws independently of political and other external influence, and without asking and receiving instructions from the Government of the Republic of Croatia or any other public or private entity in carrying out their duties and exercising their powers". It is therefore an institutionalisation of democratically non-accountable institutions and policies to ensure that the interests of capital and creditors are protected against the interests of the working democratic majority. This has also proved to be the case for Greece and for example Italy, Mario Monti, when they are even set up by forced administrations or governments without democratic legitimacy to implement non-oliberal austerity policies, cut public spending, social, pensions etc. The irony now is that Germany and France and their most important industrial organisations are rebelling against the rules on the protection of the competition that restricts the market concentration because they are threatened by Chinese competition, so they are asking to enable the merger of the leading German and French companies in the production of the fast trains Siemens and Alstrom, thus forming a European champion who will be able to fight the Chinese leading companies in the field. We are not from examples like this. Learned a lot. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33009	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Josip Saric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33010	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The Act amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Competition. Market competition among entrepreneurs is a feature of an economic structure in which resource allocation is carried out, starting with supply and market demand. Market competition is a key element of the market economy, it promotes economic efficiency and offers consumers a wide range of choices, products and services of better quality and at more competitive prices. The aim of the protection of competition is, above all, to create benefits for consumers and equal conditions for all entrepreneurs on the market. Entrepreneurs compete with existing rules on the market in quality, price, innovation of their products and services, and contribute to the overall development of the economy. The market competition ultimately favours all consumers, entrepreneurs and the economy as a whole, ensuring better supply and quality and lower prices of products and services, fostering innovation and affecting economic growth. The area of competition was first regulated in the Republic of Croatia by the Law on the Protection of Competition 1995. which, with the introduction of the basic rules of competition in force in the EU, ensures the draft and work of independent institutions to implement the rules of competition governed by that law. Therefore, amending and supplementing the law will ensure the adoption of Directives 2019/1 and of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018. authorising the authorities of the Member States in charge of competition to more effectively implement competition rules and ensure proper functioning within the market in Croatian legislation. Furthermore, the Competition Protection Agency shall be designated as a general national regulatory body responsible for the protection of competition in all markets. In addition, new legal institutes mentioned here and today, daily fines, unique settlement instruments in the procedures of establishing prohibited agreements, etc. will also be introduced, this law will specifically prescribe the imposition of fines in the event of an infringement by the Association of Entrepreneurs. Therefore, the draft law in national competition legislation will comply with the EU acquis, and in such a way as to transpose certain legal institutes and powers into the Agency as competent law enforcement bodies. Today, it has been mentioned very often in the assembly that in local self-government in some ways it makes it impossible for investors to invest and invest. I will set an example here of a very important and very valuable investment and a company, which is the company "Belin" operating in the area of the City of Ogulina, the City of Bjelovar and the City of the Island of Investors Darko Pervan, a Croatian from Sweden that currently invests one billion kunas in the wood industry, very important to stress by opening some over 700 jobs in these three cities. I refer to this as one of the great examples, unfortunately in the assembly very rarely we hear positive examples and good examples, this is really an investment worth not only for these three cities, but I would say for the entire Republic. I believe that even in these amendments of the law, better conditions of competition will be created and that a good example of Mr. Pervan's investors, or Belin's companies, will be more equal than all those who use wood raw materials as their own and energy, but also raw materials for their production. I believe that this law will in some way create better conditions for Mr. Pervana, or the company "Belin", as well as for all those who invest. Here's what I'm saying is that on this example, we have excellent examples in the Republic of Croatia. The company "Belin" in the City of Island employs 150 people today, the lowest salary is 5,800 kuna, that is for Slavonian opportunities, so I would say about Croatian opportunities very solid wages, so I'm talking about the lowest wage. They are currently investing another 10m euros, building another factory. I end up with this and I use this Assembly speaker to give good examples of those investors in the Croatian area who really do good for all the development of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33011	Thank you. We have one replica, respected MPs Vucilovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33012	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague Saric. You come from the east of Croatia as I do and you are a longtime local leader, often investors come to us, see the conditions and then they will think about it and they will either end up in the vicinity of Zagreb, somewhere near this Zagreb ring, they do not return to Slavonia. But tell us, as a local leader, what can local environments do to attract investors more than this legal framework that is at national level?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33013	Dear Representative Saric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33014	I thank my colleague, Vucilovic, for this question. I can do a lot, I can create preconditions like we have, I'm going to say the biggest entrepreneurial zone in Slavonia, the size of 60 acres with the possibility of expanding it by another 30, we have great conditions for investment, but it's very difficult to bring an entrepreneur I can tell you that. I'm the longtime mayor of the 7th Mandate, so it's extremely hard to find someone who's willing to invest anywhere in Slavonia. Our natural resource is the raw material we have, it's a tree, and of course that was the reason for the investment of previous entrepreneurs, and now Mr. Pervan. So it can be done a lot, but let's not live in an illusion and here today it's often said that local self-government leaders don't do enough to get entrepreneurs in, it's a very difficult and painful job.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33015	Thank you very much. The next debate will be respected MPs Ankica Zmajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33016	The Honorable Vice President of HS, respected State Secretary, respected colleagues and fellow parliamentary deputies. The Competition Protection Act lays down the rules and system of measures for the protection of competition, powers, tasks and the establishment of competition and enforcement bodies under that law. It applies to all forms of distortion of competition by entrepreneurs, i.e. legal and natural persons performing economic activity as commercial companies and crafts or providing services as state bodies of the unit of local and regional (regional) self-government, associations, sports organisations, institutions and others where they operate directly or indirectly on the market. These amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of Competition will take over new EU acquis and further regulate certain provisions already in line with the EU acquis, and then bring the legal status of the Competition Protection Agency into line with the real-life business. The Agency shall be given additional independence with the exercise of its powers to provide additional financial resources for qualified staff or human resources as well as technical and technological resources. The Agency shall be empowered to impose fines in order to implement more effectively the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU or Article. 101st and 102nd. It's a contract. It is also very important, and this is that the Competition Protection Agency established in 1995. This amendment and the additions of the law shall be entered in the Court Register as a public institution. To conclude, the agency is expanding some powers, which was necessary. One of the important provisions is that the legal basis for the calculation of salaries for the president of the agency's council, vice presidents and council members will be regulated, which has so far not been prescribed by the establishment of a basis as state officials have. Finally, these amendments and additions to the laws lead to greater transparency, especially in the selection process of candidates for the President of the Council and members of the Competition Agency through a public call issued by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. By listening to today's presentations and discussions, which take the view that these proposed amendments and amendments to the law are absolutely necessary, I personally commend these amendments and additions to the Competition Protection Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33017	Thank you. The next debate will be the respected representative of Damir Habib. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33018	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President, Honored State Secretary, Representatives of the Competition Protection Agency, colleagues and colleagues. I've already said a lot on behalf of the club about the bill. You'd touch some other parts that I think are worth mentioning. Therefore, these amendments to the Law on the Protection of Competition in the proposed content, i.e. its compliance with Directive 2019/1, would suggest that a tool is necessary in the effective establishment of the proper functioning of the internal market of the Union. In fact, effective competition enables companies to compete evenly in all Member States, while at the same time under constant pressure to offer consumers the best possible products at the most favourable prices. This encourages innovation, long-term economic growth. Competition policy is therefore a key tool for achieving a free and dynamic internal market and promoting general economic well-being. I would also mention and commend the work done by the Competition Protection Agency, despite the fact that there were colleagues here who had certain critical statements to the agency, although I did not hear any argument, evidence or fact that would contribute. And why am I pointing that out? Because the work of the agency so far, especially in the section of monitoring the state of competition protection at EU level, and in particular in the application of EU rules and before the formal accession of the EU Republic of Croatia, is more than visible. Therefore, the provisions of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement have already prescribed that Croatia will seek to ensure the gradual alignment of existing laws and future legislation with the acquis, and there are also provisions there. 70th, which has been prescribed that all agreements between entrepreneurs whose objective or effect is to prevent, restrict or disrupt competition, are also prohibited to abuse the ruling position of one or more entrepreneurs as well as any State aid which distorts or threatens to distort competition. In addition to the commitments made to apply the rules on competition in the Community, the obligation to apply an instrument for interpretation adopted by the institutions of the Community, including the secondary legislation of the Union competition authorities, as well as the case-law of the Court of Justice, in particular the European Court of Justice. The knowledge, monitoring and application of the decision of the European Court of Justice in proceedings before the Competition Protection Agency is of great importance for the proper and complete application of the protection of the area of competition. The Agency has, for example, started with the application of, or appeal to, the practice of, the European Court of Justice. It is just enough to look at the rich practice that the agency has formed through its decisions year by year, and in which we find a comparative analysis of the decisions of the European Court of Justice, detailed analyses of relevant markets and representation of entrepreneurs on the same, of course, depending on the case which is the subject of the decision itself. Taking into account all of the above, the Competition Protection Agency will certainly receive new tools and new legal instruments to provide an even better and more effective framework for combating and combating prohibited agreements, abuse of the ruling position and unfair commercial practices. Before I conclude, I would refer only to the part which was also mentioned by some colleagues here, if I am not mistaken, colleague Oreshkovic, where she expressed some doubt about certain institutions that are being introduced here by these amendments, so she had a certain degree of responsibility if I may say so against the mandatory discussions that are now being introduced by this law. What is the fact that this directive that we transpose in our national legislation is precisely the same as the legal institute, so I would say that it is one thing as it is said... i.e. the mirror provisions. And I must also say that I am a little concerned with its position on the measures to which Croatia would transpose or implement the said directive, given the existing and practice of the European Court of Justice with regard to the direct impact of the directives themselves, so from those cases still in the 1960s from Van Hend, where it clearly states what the effect of the Directive and guidelines is, or what consequences, if a particular Member State is not transposing a directive, so from that pre-trial procedure we can say one diplomatic remark to the fines and the daily pens, which I think counterpart Oreshkovic did not have in mind and that it is really not a wish. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33019	We have one replica of the respected representative, Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33020	Well, I'm not going to go into some deep debate right now, I mean it's clear that we don't agree on some of those principled frameworks to get to that convergence, more productivity, more competitiveness, and you'd be even more of those rules that we've consumed so far, and I might be a little less. But what I want to ask you is, do you think this democratic accountability of the agency is really present if, I will quote to you what the law says, "it will be ensured that the council and officials from the professional service of the agency exercise their powers and laws independently of political and other external influence and without asking and receiving instructions from the Government of the Republic of Croatia or any other public and private entity in the exercise of their duties and exercise their powers"? I think whether it's actually a democratically unaccountable institution, because here and the Priory implies that politics is something that will affect in a negative sense, so that politics can have a positive effect on the protection of that social majority, so this kind of policy exemption is in principle and, therefore, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33021	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33022	Thank you very much. So I said already in that opening statement on behalf of the club, so this position of the agency that I now think actually gets in full range that have examples of HER, HANFA or some other regulatory body is something that I think is absolutely necessary. I would not agree that, if this provision you quoted here had to be viewed in a way that actually policy is mentioned here in some negative segment. I would say that this is something perfectly normal when we talk about regulatory bodies to seek their independence absolutely, therefore, from any policy influence. So I see no danger if you wanted to point out that this is a danger or that it points to some mistrust or that it speaks generally about politics in some negative context. You wouldn't think of it that definitely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33023	Thank you. Next individual debate, the distinguished representative Vesna Vucilović.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33024	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The respected secretary of state with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, as I said in the club's presentation on behalf of the club, some things were still left behind, so I simply left them for an individual debate because they were more of a technical nature and were in principle related to certain amendments that we would submit to these until the second reading. It is perfectly normal that the Competition Protection Agency should have certain powers because the agreements and related to me are not disputed here nor is this newspaper calling for information talks, nor does what they have so far mean the possibility of an unannounced search because it is about secret agreements. And they have very often to discover them in different ways because all of us who have studied the economy know as soon as you have 2 to 3 companies that offer a particular service or product there is a certain probability of some secret agreements that don't necessarily have to be consumed, but there is. And to find out that they often have to be very skilled, to know a variety of information and to be forensics, etc. Yeah. But here I will look back on one fact that has been touched a little bit and my colleague, Habib, means the directive as such, sets a certain direction, a certain goal, it does not specify exactly how we are going to achieve it, and sometimes there may be some problems when the direct application of the directive is implemented in national law and it should always be avoided. So we always need to adapt, so we have to achieve the goal, and we have seen that the agency already has a lot of power with us, and these changes are not that big of this directive compared to maybe some other national agencies in other countries. Therefore, what should always be taken into account means that no conflict of dishes that have already been spoken of today is not being taken into consideration. What you have, many have touched these penitent eats. This part, perhaps, should be more closely defined because these provisions relating to penitent persons and to the reduction or release from punishment are a little imprecise and should in any event avoid any possibility of potential possible malfeasances which could thus be achieved. What I will refer to is, for example, Article 19(6), which states that, exceptionally from paragraph 5 of this article, in justified cases and at the request of the participants, the concentration of the agencies may allow, etc., meaning such general phrases justified cases, which may be justified cases should be a little more carefully, a little bit better, more detailed rather than this in general. We also have in Article 26(7) that the internal organisation and manner of operations of the Agency, the general acts of the Agency and other issues relevant to the work of the Agency will be determined by the statute of the Agency confirmed by the Croatian Parliament. In principle, the Assembly is not in charge of confirming acts by bodies with public authority but perhaps should be in the power of the government, the ministry, and how to reconcile the Agency's independence with that might give it some thought. Article 28 to which it is arranged means that the president and members of the council in, says they act professionally, and on the other hand have a five-year term that can be repeated, can be re-elected, may need to limit that mandate so that they do not have an unlimited, unlimited re-election and see the same in indent 7. means what it is, which are some sanctions if the president and members of the council behave in such a way as to reduce the Agency's reputation is somehow missing. And since there's no time left, I'll end up there though I still had something, but then we'll do it in the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33025	Here we have a few replicas, please stay. First respected representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33026	Here, Mrs. Vucilović, to me somehow, I get the impression and it seems that you have never recovered from that debacle of your brother at a presidential pre-election event or TV show on HRT where he has experienced more debacle because of his own authenticity than my initiative which has shown only plainly, which is that it is a dangerous politician and party that connects the best of both half worlds. It's love for war criminals and love for the free market. So when you accuse others of being joined by HDZ, I would just like to warn you and remind you that your brother, through the HDZ party card, first became a consul in Pechuh, to become the director of Croatia records, to come to the assembly afterwards as HDZ's representative, and then become Sanader's mayoral candidate in Osijek. So when you accuse others of scurrying with HDZ, I would only warn you of the benefits your family acquired through HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33027	Thank you, well-respected representative Peovic. And thank you for my brother's biography, which is very well known to me because I've known him literally since the first day of my life, so you don't have to tell me your version of his biography because I know his true biography very well, not the one you read from various media. I honestly don't know what the hell you said has to do with what I was talking about, but I guess you have some kind of trauma and some unpleasant experience that you need to deal with with me instead of my brother right now, so I don't know. But the fact is that you had the same attitude as HDZ and you weren't up for the proposal that the colleagues in MOST gave, that's a fact. I mean, I don't know why it bothers you, it's true, why the truth bothers me is not clear, but good.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33028	We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33029	238, that's not true. Let's aside from you declaring it media reports that your brother was in HDZ, facts, not media inscriptions. And as for our same attitude as HDZ, you're almost in everything you said today on the HDZ side. So you can't accuse someone of being on HDZ's side because you interpreted something as being on HDZ's side. So we were against the proposal that was adopted or abstentioned under that proposal, and you rushed and hurried to see it coming. The same attitude as HDZ. [[Intruder: Time]] It's completely wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33030	You've knowingly violated the Rules of Procedure. This wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and I give you a warning, that's your second warning. The next replica is the esteemed representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33031	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to thank you first of all for drawing attention to the nomotechnical quality of this law which is indeed missing, the whole series of difficulties being opened by reading unspecified legal provisions and I hope that through further discussion and through amendments at least part of these ambiguities and difficulties will be resolved. And as for your comment whether it should be the legislator or parliament that regulates the status, or even some kind of working legal relationship within the agency itself, given that it is an independent regulatory body or that it should possibly be a government. Here I will just point out, it is my unequivocal position, it must be parliament, and the independence of a particular agency does not stem from who has passed the provisions on their internal structure but whether there are political pressures and if there are any agencies that know how to resist these pressures.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33032	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33033	Thank you, dear colleague Oreshkovic. Well, this is the first reading and it is normal that there are also some nomotechnical things that will be arranged until the second reading and I believe that both MPs and clubs with their amendments in good faith and intent to help make the law better because the fact is that what I always say is that the Homeland Movement will always be for what is good for Croatia and for the population of the Republic of Croatia. The independence of the Agency, which we are discussing today, to protect competition is something that should definitely be supported because we need more and more independent institutions that will act independently and work in good faith, means specifically here to protect competition.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33034	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33035	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Members, you mentioned how when the directive is transposed into national legislation important to meet the objective, I agree with it, therefore, which it prescribes. I wasn't actually talking about it, I was talking about a danger that was expressed here in parliament, which is that we are actually selectively applying from the directive what answers us, if we have any doubt about it we won't apply. So, what she said in her debate, colleague Oreshkovic, which I think is very dangerous precisely because if we look at what the consequences are, so if the national state transfers part of the non, then you have the possibility that the European Commission has failed to respect and have not transposed the directive in the sense that it is you can pay the penalty or fines. I hope that's not the goal of colleague Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33036	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33037	Thank you very much, dear fellow Habiban. In principle, we agree that the directive sets out the objective and direction of action, and in each country it is to introduce it into national legislation as best and in accordance with the positive legal rules in order to achieve this objective in contrast to, for example, a regulation that has other power and is of course different strength. And I agree with you, you should always be careful to avoid potential penalties and problems that can arise if any directive or regulation or legal property of the EU does not apply, we cannot take it in a way that suits us because when you are in one community, you really need to respect the rules that apply there. And in principle, we see that now it's a good thing that we're in that community because it helps us to overcome these economic problems that we're all in together because of the epidemic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33038	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33039	Dear MPs, I'm sorry to hear you're leaving, but I'd like to refer to you... I'm sorry. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] So I am not against the EU, nor against the rules it makes, though. However, here I have pointed out that there is a huge discrepancy between what we put into the hands of the agency compared to all other similar public bodies. Therefore, I am asking one question that I believe this Parliament, as well as a whole series of other institutions in the Republic of Croatia, must find a clear and concrete answer. So we either set the agency right, and everyone else didn't, or it was the other way around. But in this presentation, I really want to look back on the quality and the nomotechnics. When we talk about how we actually make all the laws, I can say that this is one production as on tape, and the quality usually in such a process is quite lagging behind. And very often we have in the introduction of a law sentence that says this proposal, this draft law we are introducing EU legislation into our legal order. So if that is the case, if it is a simple copying, then the question arises, and what is the formation of working groups, then we need a translator who will simply prescribe the legal norm and I guess he will know the appropriate legal term. So obviously this is not the case, obviously it is necessary to intervene in a whole series of institutes that apply in one environment in the same way, in another way, in an appropriate way, interfer or integrate into national legislation. And now that we are talking about a concrete law, members of the working group were representatives of the agency itself which I am very pleased to see because I believe that they are the ones who have the most experience in practice, and now there are the relevant ministries, Ministry of Economy, Justice and Administration, Finance, Foreign and European Affairs, as well as the Faculty of Law in Zagreb, Faculty of Economics, Croatian Chamber of Commerce, Croatian Association of Employers, Croatian Chamber of Commerce. A very diverse, very charming working group. I'd like to see what some members of the task force had to say once we get this bill. I know that their final product is what they ultimately want or do not want the government, but I am interested in what attitudes, warnings and legal thinking really were, especially when they come from the profession and those who had law enforcement in their hands so that we, too, can have knowledge of their opinions and account for it. And when we talk about the consultation process with the interested public, somehow it seems more and more like it's part of the procedure that only forms exist, just forms do. It is one thing when rulings have no ear for an absolute no-quality proposal that comes from the order of opposition MPs, but something is quite different when they have no hearing or anyone else. Why am I saying that? What came to my attention with the report on the consultation carried out on this bill is that one law firm that was usually on the contrary to me, but I appreciate it, I appreciate their lawyers and lawyers as well as those who knew very well the matter, submitted a number of comments and suggestions concerning this law, which all of them were rejected and unaccepted. So when one law firm from another angle of view in relation to the point of view that the agency itself warns about problems that can arise from the application of a law in practice and that none of these proposals are even considered, for example. says it is not acceptable that these proposals are not subject to the draft of this regulation and will not be further considered or explained. And when you look at what's said then you can see it's a matter that's useful and necessary for certain laws. What's he saying? This says that in this country laws can be passed anything I want and I can do as I want and I don't care how a single legal solution will affect the application and implementation of the law in practice. Now the question is, is that intention or is it simply lack of interest or lack of knowledge? I say it is easier to go along a line of less resistance, simply to say the EU directive asked us for an abcd, we have signed an abcd as we have prescribed, we have satisfied the form, and the results will be done once we have passed several rulings of administrative courts, the Constitutional Court, and then we will ask ourselves where is our rule of law and equality in the application of the rules. She won't be here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33040	We have two replicas. The first is the honourable representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33041	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Oreshkovic, I have lifted the line simply to correct this lie of yours means that nothing is accepted. If you have looked closely, look, then you will see that out of 15 remarks or suggestions that 2 have been accepted and one in part. So you don't tell lies about something because it suits you that way. Look a little bit better.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33042	So, both in this law and in a whole series of others, starting with the Law on the Reconstruction of the City of Zagreb and the surrounding counties. So, we can talk about the number on the cobwebs. The fact that you've accepted a little something doesn't mean that it doesn't accept what's essentially changing an institute. When we talk about fundamental changes that can really represent a more significant step then there is no such step, there is no will for it. So we can talk about how long the sausage is inside a pan, but we can talk about adding an egg inside that doesn't exist in the way of thinking about the ruling majority. And on the one hand, you asked for the constructiveity of the opposition. When these constructions are designed to significantly improve a particular law, you simply freeze like penguins in Madagascar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33043	The next replica, distinguished representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33044	Dear MPs, I'm just here to cheer you up a little bit. It's within the law to define a whole series of concepts, I think 15 such terms are newly defined. Among other things, the concept of a cartel that I quote is that it is an agreement or a concerted action between 2 or more competitors aimed at harmonising their behaviour on the market or at affecting the relevant parameters of protection of competition through practice but not limited to the arrangements or coordination of purchase or sales prices, and I will stop there. I wanted to distract you so we have some parameters that we can relatively simply influence because there's already data written down somewhere. Namely, when a VAT form is submitted, anyone who teaches the VAT form must also submit a book... And there you can see the prices. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] If the Sibenik system is made wisely, it can be recognized what prices are lowest.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33045	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33046	... I agree with you right now, this is one very constructive and very good proposal that would, even in my opinion, reduce the level of discretion that exists within the Competition Protection Agency itself. [[Last-on speaker]] And that is to say, what you have now analyzed and observed, I suggest, and my idea is that we have one body that would deal with the analysis of a law with a specific purpose and a task to determine the analysis of corrupt risks or to analyse corrupt risks, so that where there is indeterminateness or where very simple mechanisms like this solution can be installed and implanted into the draft law itself. And then we, not only by the quality of the rules, but in the real fight against corruption, could say that we were moving forward. So unfortunately, there is no body that does the law analysis with the aim of determining where corruption risks are. This is a great proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33047	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33048	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, here I don't know why your discussions are always in one tone which, I would say, spread apathy, widespread depression, why you can never say anything commendable, something nice, I think, here is the representative of the Competition Protection Agency, there are things that are very good and I really also commend their work once again. If you look at a little of their practice, and I suppose you've been preparing each other for this debate that is, then you'll see how many cases they actually fixed something that wasn't good, mostly talking about banned agreements where there were agreements on prices from auto school, bakers, security guards, so a number of these cases that you can find on their site. You mentioned here the decisions of the High Administrative Court, here I looked at a little of their practice, I can say from my personal experience, their decisions regularly go to the High Administrative Court, but here we recently had one decision by the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest which did not go so well, and I'm afraid it will have far-reaching consequences.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33049	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33050	Well, since you're already on the subject of administrative courts and their decisions in relation to the commission, you're right, 6th year, 6th year, to point out 6th year. has been an educational practice and first-degree courts and a high-level administrative court which has not changed. The reason she changed is not because the law changed, but because the political structure changed and the need to protect Andrej Plenkovic from all proceedings against him. But this does not speak of either the commission or the law itself, it says of the quality of the judicial staff that is unable to resist political pressures. Unfortunately, the administrative court is there in some way provoked by the Constitutional Court's decision, and who is sitting in that constitution and how it judges it is just another topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33051	The next debate and final debate on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representative Club, the distinguished representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33052	I'll be brief. Finally, I'm just going to say that here's an example of this law we can see that there's room for improvement, which I'd very much like to support, I believe, the opposition side of HS. When we talk about the quality of the normative processes, it would be good to pay more attention to the comments that are really reasoned and that certain provisions when they are read come into conflict with others and that when these provisions apply, big, big problems can arise in practice. In principle, I am always in favour of strengthening independent regulatory bodies and improving their institutional and legal framework. I'm also in charge of giving them stronger powers. If we find out, and I think there's still going to be a broad debate about this, I hope that the law school will also be involved in the analysis of the repercussion and the concussion of these powers of the agency under the administrative procedure because I think this is the only agency that can enter, unannounced in private homes. This is the only agency that can call for an informed conversation, this is the only agency that can sort of make deals with the penitents, so we don't have such a pandemic at the level of the tax administration or any other body that conducts the administrative procedure. And I would like to see one expert analysis from the Department of Law Schools, all the law schools in the Republic of Croatia that will say whether it is appropriate to apply the powers of one regulatory agency in the administrative procedure regardless of what decisions are made by sui generis. If so, I will suggest that when the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest and a whole series of others, therefore there is control of public procurement procedures, there is a whole series of public authorities that could be subject to the same administrative legal principles whose procedural provisions to this day are missing, inadequate, underdeveloped, unclear. If we give such powers to one regulatory authority and there is a logical and justifiable interest that, when establishing the relevant factual situation, such powers are given to other public bodies which are independent, independent, in some way regulatory in their area, then the same principles should apply there as well. And now imagine your colleague, Boric, signing you up for a conflict of interest and that the commission can go to your house unannounced or your friend's house to check something out, that's what I'm talking about. So, I have no interest here in defending or attacking the agency, it's not about that, but I'm talking about the purity of the entire legal system, its balance and balance, and if we're talking about the powers of the public authorities, then they have to be put in some way, what's comparable, at the same level. And if we approach it like that, then this bill of law will have my vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33053	Next final debate on behalf of Club MOST Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33054	State secretaries, colleagues and colleagues, when we talk about the market, when we talk about sanctions, when we talk about a market surveillance body, then we must say that in the Republic of Croatia, from local self-government on the market, the influence of regional policy, the state to kill is the main reference. I could list thousands of examples, but I'm just going to repeat once again what's important and what the tribal would be, we're all for competitiveness, we're all against partnering, we're all against corruption, the connection of power and the power of politics and the impact on the market. However, the fact is that within the EU framework, we are constantly harmonising the laws with EU legislation, Croatian producers, mainly when we talk about production, food production, and in other parts, they are unfair, unequal. Therefore, Croatia and other EU members should do their utmost to make sure that mainly domestic food producers, agricultural products provide a legal framework for each unit of local self-government to ensure that 50% of the products of indigenous products from that area or producers from that area are on the shelves of trade in that area. And we wouldn't be the first ones there, because this way the same thing that's packed, something that's quality in Germany and what's good is this one and what's much cheaper in the Republic is wrapped in the same cellophane but only much more expensive and much more unquality. We are going unhealthy food, we have become exclusively market and customers, and we must also through the tourist activity protect our small OPGs, our small manufacturers. For what? Is that why we're losing people to 2/3 of the Republic of Croatia? So we lose people in 2/3 of Croatia. Because if someone in Dalmatia can't do it, we don't know it on an island or in the coast sell their product, if we babu who sells its bow or chapel on the market, we don't let her sell it and protect it, then we're in trouble. That's where the inspection agencies, institutions, public authorities react to everything we have. So we need to protect domestic producers on the market immediately. I know that's where the market competition is going, the EU, the frameworks we signed because we signed. I mentioned a case of a crisis in Europe that was in 2008, a global crisis where outside the rules, a German Chancellor subsidized an auto-industry conscious if the auto-industry failed to collapse the economy. So we had to subsidize our particular activities primarily. Otherwise.../incomprehensible/... is very dangerous i.e. the partnerluke or whatever it is called association mainly at and from local and regional levels, destroys competition and competitiveness and I have entered it is Slovenska, Slavonska 9 or Slovenska, Slovenia 9, here I live near to see that.../incomprehensible/...not the street but this one has become popular, but we have meaning we have an octopus in all and local self-governments and regional self-government I could talk about its county for 9 days. There's a fellow Sanader behind me, he knows they have a coalition on that means what market, what market for, for a concession on the Benes, there's no market. You go to the coalition and you get the beach and you manage. And that's not good. So we must have competition, not legitimate, which will essentially help the consumer or end-user services. And we have so much good, so much so that we can write about it the best stories, have the densest populated areas. Our wealth is our indigenous products, our sea, our beaches, and not that we are thus as political as in Slovenia 9. And people don't, don't trust investors, investors because the goal is to be as cheap a service as the consumer, service or product. Unfortunately, it all came down to playing political and then of course we have these, those tycoons that are coming out more and more often, but that's democracy too, so let the people choose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33055	The next final debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33056	The Honorable Chairman, respected secretary, MPs and MPs don't have us much but here you are through our replicas, the replicas of our club could hear a few bill proposals that you've given in the debate. We will try to see in the next period what you will give as a new proposal for a second reading and see how much more amendments will be needed to at least be in that part that we consider satisfied with this version of the law. There's no such thing as a big grudge. You heard it yourself, we didn't object, we didn't say something was wrong, but we think something can be fixed since we heard yesterday, I'm particularly bothered by that remark by the gentleman from the craftsman's chamber, which bothers me very much. I'm a member of the craft chamber for a very long and 30 years and more, and I know what that chamber does for its members and it would be a shame to, if it were to harm these Czechs or that these jews couldn't discuss how they could have discussed it so far. I believe that these are all common good intentions, those who were like penitents, and after that others made them pay the fines, it's so little questionable what's going on here, but I think it can be fixed through the amendments and already perhaps even in the second reading when the law comes. Furthermore, this right of the penitent has made me a little confused, and we've discussed it a lot. It's about the fact that penitents are actually released from the payment of fines and not only by them, but not only by legal persons, the penalties, the payments of penalties are released and the managers who have been and who are now in those legal persons, so I say that if it happens by accident that happened in a variety of other cases, that there's been some kind of investigation or if something, there's a real risk that someone might have gone well just because they got some information that he didn't deal with. That the penitent may be as it says in the law and the one who reports the cartel, but also the one who provides the information so that the procedure can be initiated. And this other part is particularly controversial, and I think maybe there's something else we could do to make it a little bit stronger and be better and better. I wanted to draw attention here to this part about the protection of domestic producers who are here often mentioning our colleague Bulj especially in agriculture. We heard the other day in our debate, which is the price of fruit material, which is the price of seeds, and it would be very good if we actually wrote these laws in a way that actually all these regulations are connected in some way and that they have a relationship that will allow us to actually protect these people, producers and that they can obtain material at those prices that they could so far or that they can produce it at home. Namely, this fruit material that they are now buying they cannot produce it at home because since it is a modified seed they never know what will get, they never know what will happen from it, and the material is extremely expensive and there is a great danger of cartels, there is a great danger of defining high prices, and thus will actually destroy our manufacturers and our food production. And the third thing I wanted to remind you of, what we were talking about, is the possibility of market surveillance and, in some way, the detection of cartels or the detection of cartels. It's through existing systems that we have information systems where we can access data. I mentioned one example, it's an example from the Tax Administration, so we have a system at the Tax Administration, every VAT payer who submits the VAT form must also submit the book.../incomprehensible/... if the unique code system is defined at the title level for all products will be easily detected when something is happening with a particular product or with some article on the market either in the purchase, or in the sale. I hope in the second reading we can come up with a version of the law that we'll all support together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33057	Final debate on behalf of the proposer, Ms Natasa Mikush Žigman, the State Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33058	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs, here I thank you on behalf of the promoter for all the comments and suggestions made. In short, I'll just look back at some of them. It seems to me that regardless of the diversity of the views expressed during this debate, somehow we all agree together or agree that competition which is one of the competitions that is one of the fundamental policies of the EU, and of course Croatia is its member in 2013 is what is positive and what should be encouraged. Finally, competition guarantees to all of us as consumers that prices on the market are lower, means consumer protection, strengthens their purchasing power, and thus encourages entrepreneurs themselves to more activity, i.e. more innovative and placing products and services on the market that are better for consumers, and, of course, through all these companies, strengthen their competitive advantage and on wider markets or global markets. A few notes only compared to what was therefore presented during the debate. Much has been said about the prices and therefore the inability to agree on them and within the interest associations I would just say here that the Competition Protection Agency is working systematically and on education, so what is competition, cartels and unfortunately the Covid epidemic has slowed down such educational activities, however, a large number of conferences have been held in both the HGK and other formats with which therefore entrepreneurs are present so that they cannot say that they are not talking about it and that those who should know and hear about it are not being educated. In addition, the agency has issued a guide on cartels where it is very easy to explain what the price agreement means, it is all available on public sites, on websites and can of course access that information. There were a few speeches about the agreement between the contracting authorities and the bidders, although it is in fact the second segment we will talk about during the next law. I'd just say that deals of this kind are forbidden, that they're in fact a criminal offence and that they're sanctioned by the authorities. So this one is an additional mechanism. As regards administrative sanctions, I am merely stressing that since 2010, AZTN has imposed penalties, that the infringement of the competition competition in the fact that it is a Sui Genis, it is not a classic offence, and perhaps only here is a few things about statistics, so far the total amount of administrative offences committed at the level of 4 million kuna, and itself high, the high administrative court has confirmed the decisions of the Agency, as pointed out in the debate itself, in the cases brought on the decisions of the Competition Protection Agency in fact. With regard to penalties or reductions, therefore, the law itself provides the basis for the adoption of a regulation which has already been in force since 2010, therefore on the release and reduction and will be completed after the adoption of this law or amendments and additions that we propose within 3 months, in accordance with the provisions laid down. There was a brief mention of shipbuilding, although I can see that Representative Bulj is no longer here with us, but it should be said that he is subject to state aid regulations. Supports were given naturally to restructure shipbuilding, but they can only be given once. And the second is the issue of those horizontal support that entrepreneurs have the right to, therefore, which is horizontal in nature, which is mainly through specific programmes, a large part of which we finance both from EU funds and for, therefore, we use in fact and opportunities that primarily go towards small and medium-sized enterprises. In teleoperate and monopolies matters, we should only say briefly that in Croatia it is not a monopoly but we are talking about a dupol, so it is more a correction of perhaps an incorrect quote, and in this context it has been talked about non-taxable givings or what it has done through an action plan to reduce non-taxable government givings in part of the discharging of this part of the entrepreneurial population. Very often, proposals are heard, as well as criticisms of insufficiently reducing non-taxable givings, so here is exactly one example where we did this and of course this will be done, done and done in other segments of the economy. It was a question of MP Zmajić who I remained in debt in fact from a replica that went to the opening exhibition about the most frequent injuries. The most common injuries are in cartels, so price deals. And finally let me just briefly return to the question of the agency for which the position has been expressed that it should not possibly be given the powers that are, which bounce from administrative law regarding legal institutes that it can use. Therefore, the powers proposed by these amendments and the additions to the law are the minimum powers under the directive to be transposed through this law. Why do we act this way and propose such provisions? Well precisely because of the most serious violations of competition rights, so here we are primarily talking about cartels and that is what, where appropriate mechanisms need to process the same, but of course sanctioned. So, I don't think it's disputed that we're talking about public interest here, and somehow I couldn't agree with the fact that we're taking over the directive blindly and uncritically. And on the matter of penitent programmes in the end, perhaps just to say that in fact no cartel at EU level has actually been discovered without a penitentiary programme and for this very reason is this institute that has already already been developed under the directive that we are transposing into national legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33059	We have two replicas, the first distinguished representative of Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33060	Thank you for the esteemed representatives of the applicant. I'm really saying this in the best and most constructive way, if the Competition Protection Agency is going to be an example of a well-organized independent agency that will sort of pave the way for other bodies applying administrative law, I'm going to very much support it. Notice, I'm not a priori against, I'm just here saying that we need to have a balanced state and legal system as a whole. The fact is that this is a major deviation, it can be useful, but it also exists in other spheres of public interest that illegal and illegal behavior is determined by means of the penitent. In any case, this indeed has the sound of bodies that would be more appropriate to the law enforcement body than to the body carrying out the administrative procedure. What would you like if it were possible to get information from you about how representatives from law school looked at these institutes? And do you have any knowledge of whether in any Member State at EU level some administrative dispute has been initiated over these institutes under which these powers are being disputed or perhaps proceedings before a competent constitutional court in any of the Member States so that we know what we can do?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33061	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33062	Thank you very much for your replica. So I would just once again point out that this is about the application of the directive or European law, which is not the case with other bodies that are also acting in administrative terms, under the Administrative Procedure Act. In connection with the initiation of proceedings before administrative courts, so other Member States, I'm afraid I don't have that information, so I wouldn't, I don't think, if they didn't start the proceedings, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33063	The next replica, the esteemed representative of Angelko Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33064	Thank you, Vice President HS, colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary. Today, here in the debate of fellow MPs, except for the metrics and the subject that is being addressed by the adoption of this law, there have been a lot of words about the procedure itself. So it was said that the law was passed overnight by a horror, in haste, so can you just say a word of two whether all the procedures were respected, means public consultation, whether the profession was involved, whether the law had passed the debate on the relevant parliamentary committees and so on, means the procedure itself so that there would be no confusion that it was really so quick that everything was passed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33065	Thank you very much, of course, it is understood that the procedure is fully respected, so all the elements are done including public consultation of the e-consultation to be carried out and are taken into account certain, certain proposals by legal experts. So this one can't be talked about not taking into account any of the proposals. If that weren't the case, this amendment and the addition of the law wouldn't have come to this high house.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33066	The next replica is the esteemed representative Branko Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33067	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, when it comes to protecting competition, I think some other laws should be taken into account, for example. The Law on the municipal economy allows for the right and obligation of the city or the municipality to determine places where and who will advertise a particular activity. I believe that if the city council or municipal council has decided that it should be advertising exclusively by entrepreneurs from its territory that no other law has violated it and I do not think that, in that case, the Competition Protection Agency should react as it did in its own time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33068	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33069	Thank you for your comment, the remarks I do not know a specific case but of course it can also be discussed technically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33070	Here we are, thank you, Secretary of State, and we've exhausted the debate with this. I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met, and now I'm declaring a break from, uh, to 17 hours for airing space. It's a 16-50 o'clock meeting. Here's a colleague. We're moving on. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 17.00 HOURS]] The next item is: - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, first reading, P.Z. No 109 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 85. The Constitution and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on this agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economy. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Secretary of State Natasha Mikush Zigman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33073	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The esteemed MPs and MPs, here is, in short, the law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, now through 23 legal articles, regulates the question of the status of members of the State Commission, the procedure of appointment and resolution, the duration of the mandate, the internal organisation, but, therefore, through practice, certain legal gaps have raised certain doubts and certain different interpretations. The legal gaps I refer to exist in relation to the manner, with the mandate of the members of the state commission or working legal status, the rights of the members of the commission after the end of their term of office and, therefore, it was necessary to further regulate these issues. In addition, it should be said that it is precisely this lack of regulation of the working legal status of members of the state commission that has been recognised in the framework of the action plan for the anti-corruption strategy, and this amendment and addition of the law on the state commission that we are proposing just as a measure has entered into the action plan itself and we are now implementing it. The regulation of the working legal status in which I have referred is achieved in a way that is consistent with the rights and obligations of the members of the state commission, while respecting the fact that they are bound by the law on the prevention of conflicts of interest and that they are considered as officials in the sense of that law. So they have obligations under this law, and although they are not mentioned they are not actually subject to the rules of the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials of State. Therefore, these amendments and additions are proposed to regulate therefore the basic rights, such as the right to vacation, the right to sick leave, the cost of transport to and from work, the compensation for official travel and travel expenses relating to the conduct of duties, past work and others. Other rights of members of the state commission such as the right to pay after the termination of office or the right to choose between the exercise of the right to pay for a given period of time, which is therefore in accordance with the provisions of the Law on State officials or alternative return to work, which is also made possible by that law. Provisions shall also be prescribed when the term of office of a member of the State Commission ceases in accordance with the law at the expiry of the deadline on which he was appointed either by death or on the date of the resolution decision, and as a means of selecting candidates, in accordance with what we have discussed or discussed in the previous legislative proposal, it is proposed that, as a way of selecting candidates for members of the State Commission, a public invitation is prescribed. In addition, there are also other circumstances where the Government can appoint an executive in the event that there is a long-term absence of a member of the State Commission, and all in order for it to proceed uninterruptedly with its work or to resolve in the matter of appeal proceedings brought under the Public Procurement Act. And in the end, I would just say that this law is, in fact, a law that deals with precisely status issues, organisation and status issues of committee members, while the appeal procedure itself is prescribed by another law or the Public Procurement Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33074	We have several replicas, please hold. The first one is Anka's distinguished representative, Mrak Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33075	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, this law actually solves the way in which the Commission will determine its work or the things that you have determined so far are not regulated. But we have a provision in Article 7b. which certainly causes always interest, which is that after stopping how long they have the right to receive compensation. So someone who's a member of the state commission for a year and a day will be entitled to a fee of 6 + 6 months. It's in article 7b. Paragraph 1, whether or not it was considered to regulate a little differently, because a lot is regulated as having the status of state officials, and they are ultimately not state officials, but you regulate here. Perhaps it would be more correct if you put them in state officials. We've got a lot of people in state officials, so a lot of big play. You could think about that, too. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33076	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33077	Thank you very much for your question. In fact, the members of the commission cannot actually be the state officials that the directive prescribes in such a way that they cannot be politically chosen and appointed and, since they fall under the provisions of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest or have the obligation to declare, therefore, everything that is required under the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest is necessary, but also what is more important therefore cannot be employed in bodies whose cases are actually being processed, and we know that public procurement is a very broad horizontal area and that a very large number of cases are coming to the Commission table which are proud of economic operators and are therefore not actually unprotected at the moment when their mandate ceases. We considered it appropriate and necessary to regulate it in this way by analogous to the provisions laid down by the Law on State officials.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33078	The next replica, distinguished representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33079	Dear secretary, you've now kicked me out of touch when I heard they can't be politically elected and appointed, but let's leave it for later. I would ask you for one information here for all of us here, at least I need that information, we will now regulate their working legal status, some basic rights, an annual vacation, the right to fees for official travel, the right to travel fees from work, how has it been regulated so far, how has it been regulated so far, by what regulation?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33080	It wasn't arranged. So these are exactly the legal gaps I was talking about. Their status wasn't properly arranged, was it? And the rights that state Commission employees have to control procurement procedures are civil servants' rights, but they do not have the same status.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33081	Next replica representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33082	State secretaries, members of the public procurement commission, say they will not be state officials but will be those whom coalition partners determine. So that's similar, there's even one proverb, but I can't say it, this would be, it's true and it's known that there's going to be people who are similar and that's so, so even that's a restriction, now they can't be government officials like Pilate's handwashing, and basically they're going to listen to them maybe even better than they are themselves. Public procurement in the Republic of Croatia is one of the biggest problems. Those who destroyed the competition, the competitiveness of the companies, threw people on the roads, healthy companies that were prospective by setting up public procurement, I will speak about it individually for making public procurement, literally where the number of percentages of the owners of certain companies were written to get certain jobs, but this is about large amounts. So public procurement is much more serious of this, of what I can't be state officials. [[Intruder: Time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33083	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33084	Thank you. Representative Bulj, regarding the appointment of members, of course, they must have certain professional and professional qualifications in accordance with the law in order to be able to run for the work of the state commission at all, and this is particularly taken into account during the appointment process. And I think that this very proposal for amending and supplementing the law is going towards greater transparency and greater opportunities to apply for the work of the state commission in a way that sets out a public call which, which the government is calling for and on the basis of which it will then propose to the assembly to confirm or adopt its position on the proposed candidates. In connection with the procurement procedures, I have already said that there are both criminal and criminal sanctions against the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33085	The next replica is the esteemed representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33086	Thank you, Chairman. Well, first of all, to point out, this replica of mine is not coming to you, I think that you, as a resolute ministry within this law, have done a good thing because you have balanced the rights and obligations of members of the Decom. So every time the obligations are greater than the rights that someone has, I find it unfair, and here we really had in the system that the Decom members have obligations under the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, and they also do not have the rights of state officials. Unfortunately, in this same status to this day, there are a whole range of other non-state officials, but officials within the meaning of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. What my remark was, which was once again going to solve this problem isolated and there you are in fact in some way what was contained in the Law on the Rights of State Officials Copy Falled and transferred to this law. That makes the whole system more transparent. Perhaps it would be a more practical solution. to be made [[Intruder: Time]] All-inclusive... [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33087	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33088	Thank you very much. Well, maybe I'll just say what you said, yes, so analogically, the provisions of the State Officials Act have been applied. However, not only that, we have further arranged some of the institutions that, under labour law, every worker in the Republic of Croatia has the right to be sick, such as vacations, which are not explicitly defined in the Law on State Officials. And maybe this is kind of a step towards one arrangement that's more accurate and better.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33089	Thank you. State Secretary, we're going to debate on behalf of the clubs. The first is the distinguished representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic, the Croatian Sovereigns' Club. He's gone, he's gone. Next is the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, the distinguished representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33090	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, dear secretary of state. I'm really going to try to respond to what they call a siren in this debate, and that's what when you just mention public procurement, all of us would like to discuss public procurement, discuss what we think, discuss solutions, discuss how this public procurement works, how it doesn't work, and of course you know who in that story starts to change and supplement the Law on the State Commission to control the procurement process, but do you know what public procurement is, and then you don't say anything about this topic. I'm going to respond to that name siren and I'm really going to concentrate in my debate on behalf of the club on exactly what the subject is. The theme is to regulate the work of a state commission that corresponds to HS for its work. So it's a commission that fits HS for its work. We have a report on the commission's work, and we can discuss through that report what things were like, whether the commission was better or not, and through this. We now had in the debate before this one other law where you have regulated it then, or it is about the Competition Protection Agency exactly the same way or almost the same, it is not all the way to the end, but almost the same way this problem. And my people can talk about this problem, let's talk objectively. So we have people who are subject to the Law to prevent conflicts of interest, and they have a series of obligations that they are, and they don't actually have the rights as officials do, and it's logical that these rights are regulated. When we think about it outside, therefore some of the Croatian conditions in which we live, we are absolutely aware that it should be regulated. We've had untold numbers of cases that when people stop doing this job that they have limitations, so it's that cold period that's called, that they have restrictions that they can't work. Not to say that when it comes to officials that we have had one case that shows that we are ready to modernise and define the Law on State officials and what is related to preventing conflicts of interest. For example, today may be the assistant minister at the Ministry of Economy, with you and you want to put him on the head of the HEP, how will you put him? Not because he's an official and then he has to be 6+6, and let's say the minister could be his first associate, I speak theoretically, or something else. So, state officials of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest came the time to draw a line and to see exactly what the problem is and what needs to be regulated. I'd like to make a commitment that it would, then, be good to have a law that actually regulates the rights and obligations of non-state officials in accordance with the Law on State Officials, but has to do with the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. So it should all work parallelly. Do we all want to be together, do we want to get the best people to do certain jobs? Do we want to get people who will be able to control public procurement procedures that have experience, who have knowledge, who have references? I do. Is that what we want? Of course there's probably an answer on the theoretical level. Is there at all who will report to this contest, how will we define it, how will we do it because they know that they are, therefore, corresponding to the assembly for their work, they are appointed for a period of 5 years, have the possibility of another appointment, and what will they do after that? So the provision that at one point in the law was that those going to become state officials to have the right to return to their jobs if they go from some system, that's also a provision here. But now we're coming to reality, and the reality is unfortunately, I wish it were different, but it's not, that whenever it is, when such appointments are, you always look at a number of other things. My colleague Bulj says that much more interesting than I'd say, and I have a different rhetoric at all, but you're always having a problem with who's gonna answer, that's your first problem. Then he who answers is, therefore, some kind of political orientation, which the political party that is at that moment in power will stand behind him, whether or not behind him. So these are the realities in which we live. There are no steps forward for us, there is no future for us until we really will not ensure that quality and professional people who have experience come to such places. But what we always have is a problem in the state administration, a problem in the state administration that people find very difficult to decide because it's low wages because if you go on some hierarchical scale you're making progress, then you always find yourself in a situation where everyone tells you what they think and how they do and you always have this negative selection when it comes to it. I have to say that looking at these changes and supplementing laws outside Croatian reality, a man would say okay, it's good to regulate, it might be really good if we had one law that would regulate it. Absolutely in the context of everything that is happening we have come to the fact that the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest should be defined and then we come to the Croatian reality that I really must mention. An earthquake, an earthquake in Zagreb that was in March, in law was decided to set up a fund. I must admit I was also in the debate about this law and all together was against the establishment of this fund because I thought it could be solved differently and then naively as someone who painted himself blue believed that the idea of being the head of that fund as a temporary director came a man who was the manager, who knows, who could manage and that's good. To see what today? That he was actually a model who was supposed to be HDZ candidate for Mayor of the City of Zagreb and that his mission was not to be at the head of the fund and manage the fund but to have his task as something completely different. And that's what's causing all of us to doubt each other together. So, on the one hand, when you see the law, you can agree that it's good, that it's good to regulate it, that it's good that, that all together, this is one step, or that we have at the very end of the line to protect those people there to be, that they, so they can do the maximum there for 10 years, can do 5+5. I usually think it's about eight to 10 years old. That you can just do some kind of job that you have to change some kind of business behind it. But who do we want to win? We want to win the highest quality. After 10 years. The question is where they can go back, what they can do, where they came from. So it makes sense that you have the law of some things that these people have security because they don't have security like this. I understand all of this and all of this would be good if we had the law, but unfortunately we always come to the Croatian public who is denying us and showing us the most normal situations, the situations that are now current, in fact, to always ask the question of what is behind it. So, this already mentioned fund proved not to be the idea that a quality, good man and manager would come to the head but the idea was for someone who could come into tomorrow's election for Mayor of the City of Zagreb, and when that's the case, you should not be surprised by your replicas or our doubts and by a law like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33091	The next replica, excuse me, next debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Appreciative Representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33092	Dear Vice-President HS Mr. Sanader, Mr. Bucaric, the esteemed secretary of state, ma'am. colleagues and colleagues. Most of these changes are new provisions on the rights of members of the state commission after their term of office has ceased. It is proposed that members of the state commission have the same rights as state officials under the Law on Obligations and Rights of State officials. As far as this part of the proposed law is concerned, I do not agree with the nomotechnical method proposed by the government. Prescription of the provisions of the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials of State is not technically wrong. The Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials has been amended several times in the past and will certainly change in the future, and then, because of the logic of the system, we will have to change the Law on the State Commission again. I therefore believe that where and where more elegant it would be to simply refer in the Law on the State Commission to the appropriate application of the relevant provisions of the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials. But on the side of the nomotechnics. There is a key problem with the state commission and with its members. In fact, members of the state commission are not state officials under the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials. On the other hand, the rules of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest apply to the members of the Commission, and their official status is laid down in that law. We see that contradiction in this law as well. The government in the opening arguments says the state commission is an administrative body, while on the other hand it is immediately claimed that the EU considers the state commission to have the quality of the court. Of course, we know that members of the state commission do not have the status of judges, especially since the judicial duty is life-long, and the duties of members of the commission cannot last longer than 10 years. However, members of the commission are neither real state officials nor state officials. In doing so, if such a law is passed, their rights will be one mix of the rights that state officials have, as well as certain rights that judicial officials or civil servants have. People would say a little bit of everything, a little bit of everything. So it's enough in all this illogicality and essential and nomotechnical, so it would be good for the government to clarify these issues until the second reading. Finally, this law does not regulate what should be regulated crucially before the Commission's members' rights are governed at the end of the term of office, and that is the question of the cooling period, if they can be expressed, for members of the state commission once their term of office has ceased. In other words, what are they supposed to do and what can not be done by members of the state commission when their mandate ceases? That's the key questions. Can they get a job at the employer's? Whose rights as an economic operator or a public or sectoral contracting authority have they decided on in the State Commission? Um, interesting. Can they, when and under what conditions, accept consulting matters in connection with public procurement after their term of office has ceased? These are the right questions to be answered, and to which this law does not give answers, as well as the unsettled Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. Since the minister of justice and the administration announced amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests this year, we consider the proposal to be premature. Only when the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interests is amended, and its provisions on the period of cooling after the expiry of the duty can it be considered which are the necessary rights of members of the State Commission, as well as the rights of all other officials. Another major problem with this law is the government's authority to appoint replacements to members of the state commission who have justifiably been absent from work for more than 3 months due to long-term sickness or maternity or parental leave. In this matter, we treat not members of the commission as officials, but as civil servants. This logic is temporarily filled with official jobs when officials are longer away because of sick leave or maternity leave or parental leave. According to this proposal, the government may fill the seat of the absent member of the commission for 12 months and, if necessary, for another 12 months, in total 2nd, 2nd, 2nd, 2nd, 2nd, 2nd, and 2nd, respectively. colleagues and colleagues. It is completely unclear why a possible replacement would be appointed by the government to an absent member. HS is the one who appoints members of the state commission, so if there is a need to name their temporary replacements, isn't it logical that these replacements are re-named HS? In advance, there is an unacceptable argument, for example. that we are slow here, that we cannot make a quick decision, the last time the Parliament appointed a part of the members of the state commission the Government proposed to appoint a part of the members addressed 7. May 2020, and the proposal was decided in the Parliament on 18 May, i.e. within ten days. Therefore, there is no need to insist that the Government appoints alternate absent members, but if you insist, we will warn you that such treatment is contrary to the spirit of the law by which the state commission corresponds to the Parliament, this honorable home, and not to the Government. More importantly, we believe that the possibility for the government to pass parliamentary procedures and debates to appoint members of the commission, which may take up to two years, opens the way for political pressures on the work of the state commission and on the work of its members. We also don't see the logic that through the law they're looking for excuses for the government and the Parliament if they don't name new members of the state commission in time. The members of the state commission are not constitutional judges so that their appointment requires, which is the two-thirds majority here in the Parliament. So, the government's responsibility and parliamentary majority to make a decision on appointment in time, that is the responsibility of the government and the parliamentary majority. If the government doesn't propose candidates not at the time, then it should be politically responsible for blocking the commission's work, right, again quite logically. Therefore, we cannot support these transparent solutions and suggest that you remove them until further reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33093	The next debate is on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club and distinguished representative Daniel Spajic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33094	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. At this time when we have been pressured by many hardships from the aftermath of the earthquake to the major economic crisis caused by the pandemic, the government is very concerned about one of the many commissions and agencies because, in their opinion, there is a lack of regulation of the material and other rights of the State Commission for the control of public procurement procedures, and now it is proposed to adopt this law which regulates material and other rights such as full pay for the next six months after leaving office and another half of the salaries for the next six months. This is one of the numerous alibis of the bodies paid by taxpayers, which do not make up nearly enough to protect the interests of those who pay them. The public procurement law is regulated in the way our public and local administration conducts procurement procedures in order to conclude public procurement contracts from goods, works or services of the framework agreement and to carry out a project tender. The total amount of public procurement from year to year increases with significant growth rates. Total value of public procurement in 2019 It is 54.1 billion kuna without VAT. Given that GDP is for 2019. amounted to 328.2 billion shares of the total value of public procurement in GDP for 2019 is as much as 16.46%, which is an increase of 10.62% compared to 2018. in which the share of the total value of public procurement without VAT was 14.88%. In the year before that. This share was around 13% in 2017 and there is a clear rapid growth in the share of public procurement value in total GDP. When public sector salaries in Croatia between 11% and 12% of GDP are added to this, it comes to a devastating conclusion that the public sector needs almost 30% of GDP only for wages and public procurement of its needs. In order to finance this, citizens and the economy are looming under the burden of hundreds of fiscal and parafiscal charges. The real efficiency of public procurement, and thus the control of public procurement and the work of the commission, is best told by several facts in our reality. Budget revenues related to state-owned incomes including public-owned enterprises, which mainly come to the resources of public procurement procedures this year, are planned for an embarrassing 2.4 billion kuna, while a decline to 2.1 billion is planned over the next two years. In view of the fact that public procurement procedures occur, the resources for the management of state assets are disastrous results of the management of state assets to a significant extent linked to the quality of public procurement. Research on the corruption of European countries is conducted by various bodies and different methodologies, but all these studies have something in common, in which Croatia is always credible among the first three countries by the index of corruption, the key cause of our demographic and economic decline. This law on public procurement of this kind of law enforcement control is one of the cornerstones of the construction of our corrupt society. As it seems in practice, we can see for ourselves daily, and since the events in the club in Slovenia 1 of the examples is an example of the Law on Public Procurement and Control of its Implementation. Looks like our anti-corruption stamps are old and unusable. The share of the public sector in GDP is nowhere in the EU as large as in Croatia. Companies that come to resource goods for projects via public procurement dominate the Croatian economy, which grows with modest rates that ensure easy dying. At the end of last year and not knowing about the pandemic, the government projected economic growth in the coming years is 2 to 3%, which is a growth that delays but does not prevent the demographic and economic catastrophe of the Republic of Croatia. The consequences of public procurement in Croatian can still be discussed extensively. For such unquality work, the government has rewarded members of the state commission with fine benefits. After all, it sounds a little bit and cynical that the government proposes these changes as an instrument of anti-corruption effect to regulate their rights and obligations by respecting the specificity of the legal position, wow. Although Croatia has had around 20 billion kuna available for rural development in order to balance its regional development from public procurement data, the total ineffectiveness of government funds spent. Namely, public entities from the City of Zagreb participate in the total value of public procurement with as much as 58%, while those from Virovitica-Podravska County from which I also come from Bjelovarsko-Bilogorska with only 0.7%. The rural spaces are still empty but now in a much more harmful way by the Republic of Croatia. Instead of large Croatian cities, migration is heading abroad. The results of the July 2017 survey showed that politicians are very good at hiding knowledge of public procurement. Of those who finance these purchases, by taxpayers. In fact, the results of the research show devastating results. As many as 57% of respondents among Croatian citizens do not know what public procurement is, 64% do not know what public competition is, only 8% of respondents claim to know how much the state spends annually through public procurement, but only 2.6% of respondents said the exact amount. So only every 40 citizens, the taxpayer knows about how our public procurement apparatus spends more than 16% of GDP. This is the 2017 data, but surely today would not be any different, perhaps just worse. The narrow circle of people is very good at keeping the sanitary corridor around these huge budgets. If the 9 Patriarchs from the Commission did their job or that the government otherwise ensured the education of taxpayers in relation to the public procurement system, the results of such research would certainly not be this defeative. However, the obvious transparency of the process and the education of taxpayers does not suit the narrow interest lobby that manages these tens of billions. One of the few good news about the public procurement report in 2019 is the fact that around 10 billion kunas of public procurement value should be refunded from EU funds. However, those funds will be determined by us if the controls determine that everything has passed according to EU standards. Given the fact that a good part of the contract of public procurement is awarded to the sole bidders in competitions that often do not have the necessary resources and competences to deliver contracted services, it is clear what significant part of these 10 billion kunas will never be refunded and will remain on the burden of Croatian taxpayers. Zoran is also an example of a recent tender for the implementation of the digitalisation of the hospital system. The project's view as the sole bidder was opened 20 days before the tender was held by Sanader's Minister of Health Ljubicic. The service of project documentation and technical specifications has again been awarded to the consortium of two companies which together do not have an annual turnover equal to the amount of purchase and do not have the necessary experience for these projects. In addition, according to publicly available data, one of these two companies is engaged in the arrangement of wedding salons. The home movement wants wedding salons to work as soon as possible to have as many weddings and children as possible, but they would also like to have an extremely important health digitisation process in the area of competent businesses. Therefore, gentlemen, instead of these alibis of laws that create an illusion of the fight against corruption and order of the public procurement process, introduce effective public procurement control mechanisms to target these funds towards stronger economic development of the Republic of Croatia. This kind of public procurement is currently primarily food for the corrupt octopus and weight in the development of the Republic of Croatia rather than being the key wind in its back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33095	The next debate is on behalf of HDZ MP Branko Juričev Martinchev's Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33096	Thank you, Vice President. Dear State Secretarys with Associates, colleagues and colleagues, this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures in the First Reading of the HDZ Club will support it. As we could hear in the application of the existing law, certain legal technical shortcomings, the lack of regulation of material and other rights of members of the insurance of continuity, the precise determination of the start and completion of the mandate, the termination of the mandate by force of the law, as well as the method of selection. The proposal for this law is also adopted in accordance with the action plan and with the anti-corruption strategy as well as with the 3 European directives. The first directive to be coordinated with is the one relating to the conclusion of public procurement contracts for goods and public works. It is the second to refer to the water economy, energy, transport and the telecommunications sector. The third is the one relating to improving the efficiency of the legal protection process relating to the conclusion of a public procurement contract. Since the members of the state commission are neither state officials nor judicial officials, it is necessary as an instrument of anti-corruption effect to regulate their rights and obligations by respecting the specificity of their legal position and the fact that members of the bonds are members of the application of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest and are considered officials in the sense of that law. The State Commission, as we know, is in control of the procurement process and it is an independent and independent state body. It is competent to resolve complaints concerning procurement procedures, concession procedures, selection procedures for a private partner in public private partnership projects. It shall decide in the appeal procedure on the legality of the procedure, on actions, missed actions, decisions taken in the procedures as well as the legality of the contracts and framework agreements concluded without the implementation of the procurement procedure. The state commission for its work corresponds precisely to this HS, it has nine members as heard, the president and two deputies on the government's proposal is appointed exactly in the HS for a five-year period, with that same appointment being repeated once again, meaning a maximum of ten years. Since the entry into the EU, more intensive use of European Structural and Investment Funds has taken place. The use of these funds is related to time limits. Such procedures are extremely complex, this documentation is extensive, it is a high assessment of the value of these works. The procedures are usually attended by a consortium with economic operators from EU Member States and public procurement procedures under special EU supervision. We also know for sure when negotiating and controlling, we must always think and keep in mind that these are criteria that are different from our domestic legislation and the possibility of revoking the same funds. There has also been increased involvement of expert advisors including lawyers in public procurement procedures which testify to both increasing professionalisation and high level of expertise. It is therefore extremely important to continue to strengthen administrative capacity and here it would agree with colleagues who said that the best public procurement experts must have and remain in this state commission. If we look at the financial indicators of the status of implementation of operational programmes for the financial period from 2014. that we have been allocated 10.7 billion euros. And so far, over 12 billion has been agreed which is 111%, most of these assets have just been placed on the board of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. When we look only in the water sector for this area 8 billion kuna is reserved, individual procurement is over 100, 180 and 300 and over 500 million kuna. Here we have different purchases, so here I am a little bit today, we have decisions relating to the purchase of office materials, and then the purchase of transport services, gas readings to the one for the construction of water-communal infrastructure agglomeration worth over 700 million kuna. I have just listed all of this so that we can understand even more what the State Commission is meeting for the control of public procurement procedures, and it is therefore extremely important that they work there as high-quality people as possible with knowledge and experience. And as their obligations are defined so that they know and what their rights are from those to pay after the suspension of their duties, the right to return to work in the state and the public sector, the right to return to work in the private sector, then the inability to exercise some of these rights and the right to choose between the right to pay for wages after the termination of duty and the right to return to work. A significant newspaper is that in the event of justified prevention in the conduct of duty for more than three months, e.g. Long-term illness, maternity or parental leave, etc. The government may appoint an acting member until the member is returned to office. As we have said that the number of items and the value of the purchase of items located on their benches is extremely important, and European funds are particularly limited and time-limited, I think this is far faster and simpler than doing so in HS, as a colleague has previously said and suggested. All this is possible for a maximum period of 12 months with the possibility of another appointment. It has also not been possible so far, and in practice it has proved to be a problem, especially in the case of disease, as well as the way candidates for members of the state commission are elected now a public call to contribute to greater transparency of the procedure itself. We at the HDZ Club think that this is extremely important and good changes and additions to the Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, and at this time we support this Commission's work with a desire to work even faster and even more qualitatively when it comes to large projects funded by European means to contribute to the rapid and quality withdrawal of European funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33097	The next debate is on behalf of Green-left bloc MP Rada Boric's club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33098	Mr. Chairman, Madam Secretary of State with an associate. Here's that everyone has repeated, and I'm also going to be trying to talk about the rights and duties of members of the state commission by amending and supplementing the law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. Here the focus was also right to what would be right, and perhaps on obligations in some other synergy laws. And we have to say that I'm sorry there was an opportunity in our agenda there was also a report from the Commission in '19. Some have looked back at him and looked back, of course, it's not a topic right now, but perhaps it could have been the same day in the debate, so it would have been possible to see what the commission's doing and what we're all talking about complaints so that someone really said that they had over 1,000, 1009 complaints that there were also what they were doing and, of course, maybe show the values of such a commission's work and why it's important that this commission is an independent body and what it is to be commended for, that what is to be insisted with other such bodies is that the transparency of their choices, but that the transparency of the elections is clear in some points this is the first reading and we hope that we will be heard and the remarks here are legitimate. Here, if you look at it, someone's already been talking about some articles, so I'm going to say Article 7c. where a member of a state commission who has not been re-appointed as a member of a state commission or of another duty, who has previously acted in office and has been employed indefinitely in the public service has the right to schedule or return to work on the tasks he had performed prior to his duties, all right or other relevant jobs and then the point, without carrying out a public tender. What does that mean? So, all right, if we're going back to the same workplace, but somewhere else appropriate without, without having a public tender, we're going to cancel this public competition story at all, so we should look into agreeing to that, too. Since we all talked today that members of the state commission are not state officials, we said they were neither judicial officials, and the lack of access to regulation of their status can be recognised and recognised as a corrupt risk if in this report for 19th time corruption will be shown 15 times, so when we talk about public procurement, it seems that they are hanging a shadow over these public procurements if there is a speech in the report itself. So it is recognized that this is precisely some ambivalence of their position as possible I will be a decent corrupt risk, it is necessary, as the instrument of this anti-corruption effect, to regulate their rights and obligations and respecting the specificity of their i.e. the legal position of the Commission itself and the fact that members are bonds of application of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. It has been said here somewhere that what we lack sometimes is that we do something in a law that doesn't understand that maybe we shouldn't work synergyly, perhaps even on some other law, and then in this law that would be lower order, maybe even the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. It is also interesting that if you have looked at, some of us have also been public consultation, here I will also appoint a citizen whom I do not know of Mr Rendulić who said in Article 3, in Article 7, it is necessary to define more clearly in order to prevent a conflict of interest, so when a member of the state commission is looking for a return to work with the employer who was his party in the process that why the answer was received would be resolved by the internal acts of the state commission if it could also be settled in the law. So, surely if I was on the committee that I couldn't leave after those six plus six or no six that I couldn't go to work on, in a place or here were also talking about consulting jobs, so there's a case I've been working on. It is very important to really look at these types of complaints and what happens, maybe we should get a report on the number of members we should know how many people are working on cases because if we received 1,209 complaints in 2019 and if this is an increase of 3.33%, then it also says that in 2019.../incomprehensible/... we controlled only 6.59% so 6%, 6.5, 6.6% of the total number of public procurement procedures published in.../incomprehensible/... of which some 13.190 procedures. So, which also means whether it's a relationship to the appeal procedures a little look at that report and what it means if we know and we're aware that the highest percentage, so some 30% of the appeal procedures are related to the documentation, and others are about the selection, and just as I said about possible corrupt actions. If we were to discuss not only how to correct their status on annual vacations, I think it's a questionable matter who determines a replacement of up to 2 years. Is this the same place for what we call here an ugly entanglement, that such sensitive places and independent bodies should really have as it was said here and the people we'll know that the corrupt risk is reduced to zero.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33099	Next debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, distinguished representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33100	The Honorable Chairman, respected secretary with co-worker, MPs and MPs, is here before us this new law and when the law came to debate when I saw that this session was on the agenda I really enjoyed it because I thought we were going to solve some more problems that are related to public procurement. Unfortunately, however, in this law, we are now solving only the working legal status of employees in the State Commission for the control of the procurement process. Namely, what I wanted to talk about, given that there were some colleagues who spoke a little critically about the public procurement process and the work of the commission, I have to draw attention to myself for a long time I was the person in the company who was a public procurement official and I can tell you over the past 7, 8, 9 years I haven't, we haven't found ourselves in a situation where there was a problem with the public procurement process or the control of the procurement process. This is about whether or not I was a party or I was on the side of what is happening in the law, I have to say that most of the public enterprises and the ministries, in the end there is a Central State Public Procurement Office, have quite well solved their internal acts so that already in the preparation of procurement competitions they solve a lot of problems so as not to put themselves in a position at all to have a problem with the public procurement process. So in principle, the Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures really solves those extreme cases which it has relatively few, but unfortunately has them. But there's another problem. The problem is that, in fact, if these public undertakings or public procurement bonds have not passed the rules for calling public tenders, and then we have a problem with the fact that there is a large space for various corrupting activities, for various setting-ups, and we should in some ways prevent it. That's why I was hoping that we would have another proposal here in this law, and that's the suggestion that in some way I am controlling the process of preparing the tender for public procurement because there are problems. Once the competition is prepared after everything goes more or less normal, but the preparation itself is a problem and the problem are those conditions that are listed in the competition itself. But unfortunately, today we're going to discuss it, but I had a need to say that because of the removal of certain things that have been said about the members of the commission. I don't think it would be right for them because these are people who do their part of the job fairly and correctly, and we've heard unfortunately that so far their basic rights have not been regulated because they were officials, and now we're going to regulate their rights and annual vacations and sick leave and income for coming to work and work, past work and everything else that goes with their jobs on this commission. We at the club believe that people in such jobs must be well paid and have to be independent and of course it is difficult to achieve this if they are made impossible through some law and through some regulation. We've heard so far what conditions they had, what conditions they would have now, and we knew before that they were actually followed by the obligation of the Law to prevent conflicts of interest, but they didn't have those rights that state officials had. We also know that this commission corresponds to the Parliament, and I think there's a little bit of this slippery terrain because they match the Parliament, but only declaratively and only post-festum, so they give us a report that we can agree on, or that you would say that when you're getting a report, we've received it on the basis that most often most of them will vote on it, and there won't be any problems. So that responsibility here is so little questionable. What we can't agree on is two things, it's an art. 12.a because we believe it is not good for the government to appoint deputies and members of the commission, as soon as the replacement can be delayed, it writes inside that it can appoint a replacement for 12 months with the possibility of extending it once more. We believe that this is not good, given that it is the Parliament that appoints members of the government's committee, it would be good for these replacements to be voted in the Assembly so that there are no misunderstandings and possibly any notions that there are some kind of cool games. It is also another thing that is not in our best interest and which is why we were ultimately restrained on the board, it is the fact that it has not been regulated in the law to return to the workplace of the employer who was party to the procedure. I think it says it's going to be regulated by an internal act. I believe that it should still be part of the law and that the person who would eventually commit the offence still fits some stricter criteria, yet there is a potential conflict of interest. This is an opportunity for various corrupt actions, and I believe that this should be regulated in this law. When these few things I've listed change and correct, I hope that it will be corrected through a public debate one part, one part perhaps through our amendments. It's not a problem that can be easily defined, so we can have a consensus on that law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33101	Following is an individual debate and the first important representative, Karolina Vidović Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33102	Ladies and gentlemen. If a professor of Public Administration Harvard analyzed the Croatian state administration, agencies, supervisory bodies, the attorneys for all possible areas of life then he would probably get the impression that Croatia is a paradise on earth because everything is regulated with us. One of these bodies to which the law gives enormous powers is the body that objects to this item of the agenda. Public procurement is in every country and in Croatia a highly sensitive area, the state spends the money of its citizens, and in doing so, the very common situation that people call everyone is nobody. The law on public procurement in Croatia is much more rigorous than the one in Germany, for example. For all more than 200,000 kunas must call for a public tender. However, what is the real situation in Croatia when it comes to public procurement? Everything is the opposite of what the law provides. Public procurement of ladies and gentlemen in Croatia is the main platform of corruption or I will say very plastically, the main platform for stealing money from Croatian taxpayers. Indeed this is a difficult qualification, but unfortunately true, it will be confirmed to you by people who work in the accounts of Croatian forests, water, HEP, Janaf, Zagreb Holding, etc. In fact, I'm getting information almost on the daily basis and it's documented, and it's right in the public procurement segment. So a few days ago, I received comprehensive documentation on irregularities in the operation of Plitvice Lakes. I'll forward it all to the DORH, of course, but here's one piece of information from the same. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. NP Plitvice Lakes paid 641,000 kuna to one agency, and the chief holder of the contracted service is the wife of Director Kovacevic. So when you see the sum of these contracts that are subject to an increase in the quality of destination or quality control of destination or the education of employees, and all of these contracts are up to 200,000 kunas so that they don't have to be publicized, then it's highly speculative and illogical, and when it is added that according to this documentation, the entire arrangement of private apartments of directors and his advisors allegedly paid for by the NP then the question arises, what are all these supervisory institutions for, what they do, what they do, what they do, what they pay for. We are looking at a model where, for example, corrupt public procurement takes place in the City of Zagreb, and this model is chosen by the most favourable bidder, but from the original price, and based on subsequent orders or so on. outside the cost of works, prices increase 10, 20, 30, and sometimes 50%, and sometimes more than the initially agreed price, because when the conditions of the tender of the provision of this provision are of course the amount made by the bidder in the public tender they must be a binding criterion for the whole procedure. Changes in the conditions that I have stated are possible only in exceptional circumstances, under very strict control, and it is precisely these changes in the conditions of competition and prices in spoken at the beginning are the model by which taxpayers are being robbed in Croatia. These changes to the conditions of competition and damage to the Croatian state could also be discussed by our colleague Hajdas Dončić in connection with Franjo Tuđman Airport in Zagreb. Every law if not implemented in the spirit in which it is written but played becomes a dead letter on paper. We all know that there was an epic crime in road construction, we all know that the Zadar 2-Luka Gaženica road is so paid that at least two such roads could be made and that's a fundamental problem. I am against these amendments to the law because the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement, just like our judiciary, serves itself and empty satisfaction because public procurement is not controlled but serves this corrupt system that impoverishes Croatian citizens. If the commission did its job then in the Croatian state budget, which analysts say, there would be surpluses between 20 billion and 30 billion kunas because corruption in public procurement makes two evils. The amount to be estranged from citizens is first evil, and the second evil is those who do so must disable institutions that have been paid to curb corruption so as not to prevent them from stealing. One of these institutions that does not do its job is the public procurement control commission in question. We all have choices, the rule of law, order, work and prosperity or corruption, riots and poverty.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33103	We have several replicas, the first representative is Miro Bulj [[/Intruder Vidovic Kristo: Do I have replicas? Great.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33104	Thank you very much. My colleague, public procurement is the biggest problem. 16 billion, i.e. 16% of GDP goes through public procurement, it's an unprecedented crime. You mentioned Luka Gaženica here as one big investment and access route i.e. The road, however, is a problem, we are here discussing a commission set up by coalition partners majority, meaning they are one of those who will serve and listen to them in public procurement, whether Bandic in his last term with his cablers, who we see as having an affair of global proportions until the award of homes in Ban Jelačić Square, to all these public procurements that have wasted our people abroad by my Cetino and Split-Dalmatia County. Both the cause and the biggest problem of it is that 6% of GDP comes from people who have spent such a policy, unfair competition and bargaining.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33105	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33106	I agree with my colleague Bulju. I'd say when we're talking about this commission that should control public procurement then we need to be very aware of what our role as Parliamentarians is, we here in this House of High which is our assignment. We've been sent here by the people, among other things, to worry about shutting down the surveillance cameras, and that's exactly what's going on here. Corruption in Croatia will not be able to be stopped in these proportions and not even slowed down if the surveillance cameras continue to shut down those who are invited to install them in a very good way and that we as advocates can have insight into all these corrupt affairs. I'll mention, of course, the Krsh-Pared to this day we didn't get any insight into the contracts.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33107	The next replica, distinguished representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33108	Honorable MPs. Today... being critical, but I would draw your attention, I have tried to explain it a little in my debate given the debate of colleagues from the Homeland Movement. It is about the fact that the commission is actually following the course of public procurement and if everything is in accordance with the law, the commission cannot react there. But I mentioned in my debate, the problem is that someone needs to make sure that they are preparing tenders for public procurement and put it in context with other public procurements. Is that necessary, is there somewhere else, how it's going to be spent, who's going to get it, how it's going to be paid, where it's going to be, you know, there's a problem. The process itself of preparing the competition is a big problem because unfortunately no one controls it. Apparently, there are some controls, internal controls, but generally very bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33109	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33110	Thank you, colleague Pavic, for my understanding, but I don't know if you understand. It is not enough to see if the public tender is in accordance with the letter of the law, it must be in the spirit of the law and must be logical in the context as well. It can't go through anything like this case that I have documentation on at Plitvice Lakes National Park. How can it go under the radar of these commissions? That's inadmissible. I'm asking what they're getting paid for. A colleague also mentioned Zadar 2 again, the port of Gazenica. How can it happen no matter what it's according to the letter of the law means the papers are being accepted. As there can be such a large amount, it is subsequently increased to that level that at least two such roads could be built. What are we talking about? Their duty to follow public procurement from beginning to end in which it takes place not only in the context of letters but also in the spirit of law and logic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33111	Next replica, distinguished representative Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33112	I always find myself asking the question of distinguished colleagues Kristo, these control mechanisms. And I wonder if we're on the right track that we're always calling for another control mechanism over the control mechanism. For example, public procurement is a control mechanism as such. It should also enable, in accordance with all applicable rules of the Republic of Croatia, transparent operations. But that's not enough, so then we need to control the public procurement process, that's what we're discussing today, the rights of those who exercise it. Then we're looking for more transparency, so we're looking for control of that control. Is this the right way or should we go back to the very beginning to see why we need these control mechanisms and additional bodies on our bodies on the trail of that basic commission if you don't want to solve the problem, to see where the applicable regulations indicate when we have a public procurement procedure as such. Why even more and more control bodies?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33113	Thank you, colleague Selak Rasudiæ, yes, we should go back to the beginning. Well, I'll tell you what. In Croatia we have a huge respectable control mechanism, and it is called the Croatian Parliament. It is a violation of the Constitution and of the law when the Government, which is subordinated to the Croatian Parliament, gives the same assembly no insight into the contracts, documentation of everything the Assembly requires. It is inadmissible, it is counter-constitutional, it is anti-civilisation and totally inconsistencies with the EU. We are a member of the EU, and our citizens must face the fact that the citizens of the second order in that EU and what you say are many different control committees, and in fact more and more this corruption is taking on such epic proportions that it is actually entering all the pores of Croatian society and state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33114	Thank you. Next individual debate representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33115	Thank you very much. The biggest problem, early society cancer is public procurement. Public procurements made on the principle of Slovenia 9 where certain heads of state-owned companies as an octopus also spread through local self-government, state institutions, agencies, and, of course, control mechanisms that we are discussing today. We are today discussing people who are in the State Commission for Public Procurement Control, whether they can be officials, whether they are subject to the law, to conflict of interest, to this one, and in fact cannot be an official, and may be one who is greater in the assembly or even more obedient. So the laws and regulations regarding public procurement are constantly infringing not only, but literally, in public procurement, the number of the percentages of the one who gets the job is written. Thus, healthy competition was destroyed and companies that were healthy, who could work, got jobs simply had to act in the case as it was in JANAF. Donite money counter, donite and counter and money, count the money with someone from the judiciary and share that money, and so you'll get certain jobs, either in JANAF, or, for example, here's a colleague mentioned before me Plitvice Lakes National Park. It's an empire, only in Lika they fight for it, for the power to rule the Plitvice Lakes. Or Krka National Park, and what is the director's name? The director was appointed is not Ljiljana Zmijanović named as Croatian defender and better references she had professional than the current director. You know why she was appointed? Because she had two IDs at that point, both HNS and HDZ. And now how public procurement will be conducted, so as Dujic says or who else I have no idea who's running it there. How's it going to be? And that's how it works. That's how it works. Here tomorrow we have a debate about seeds, in Lica it is sold for the images of Egypt's kumpir, and our Personals who produce their own potato can't place it in Krka National Park so they can sell it as a brand and keep these people alive. Why don't you explain to me how from Egypt can? And as far as we're concerned, here we're going down, we've reached the most important port on the Adriatic, in which it's most invested, most importantly it's the Zadar port of Gaženica. It invested 30 in Gaženica, so 2 billion kuna was invested, 2 billion, was rented for 1.6 million kuna to foreigners, the Turkish owner, and the road that was trying to be the Zadar access road to the highway instead of 200 million turned out to be 600 million. Public procurements when they were made for the highway are always public procurement here is the iron, Split's iron mill had its iron finished product, but not a gram of one from Croatian irons was installed in the freeway by free overpasses, access roads and so on. So the gram of iron is not from the ironworks of Croatia, or the mammalian, or Split's ironworks. Of course, it's convenient in public procurement. People have been destroyed who have produced certain parts for highways or sewer pipes or pipes or drain pipes. Why? Is the exact color that has to be this in public procurement or something that our homework can't or someone's fitting? So public procurement is the biggest problem in Croatian society, they destroyed competition and competitiveness. It is connected with local, regional to state policy and thus can't function competitiveness can't the best ones who would do, build, produce and cheapest services they had can't get into expression and shut down their companies. And that's 16% of GDP. So what was his name today on the committee until today? How? Who Bandic said then Bandic has his 10th as he said the chips, I don't like to call people that. And that's what the boss is called, so as different as she's going to do, it's not funny, and she's laughing here, that's how it was done. Public procurement, it is not meaningful, are the biggest tumor and crime against the Croatian people mainly according to the survival of people in this area, especially those companies that were more competitive, which is an example of Slovenia 9. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33116	She has a replica of representative Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33117	Dear Representative Bulj, firstly, you should ask those who come here on behalf of the promoter not to be allowed while the parliamentary representatives speak because in Croatia we have a serious problem with public procurement and you should first understand it in the way it is spoken of, not that you consider it a form of entertainment or that it is funny that we do not find adequate solutions to combat corruption in terms of public procurement. Comrade Bulj, do you think that the problem is not good enough control of public procurement or that is not at all a problem but is the problem of bad people in the right places because we all know that the biggest problem with public procurement is not about breaking the law but about what exists in every law, and that is the possibility of bypassing it. So that things go according to the law, and if we do know, I will later set concrete examples that it did not work according to the spirit of the law or that they did not end up getting a job, although nothing is formally illegal.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33118	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33119	Well, of course the legal framework must be the best, the best, but in reality everything we talk about is the opposite. It means the opposite. We have destroyed competition because of public procurement, we have lost a number of jobs due to corruption, that is Slovenska 9, here is an example, a simple example of that you can describe 90% of public procurement. Either recently Mayor Požega or I don't know exactly how it works locally. So Slovenska 9 is just a head maybe one of or one of the arms, one of the arms. So from the local level of agencies, companies, companies, Croatian Waters, these, they, they, they, they, they, it's been brought about that we have today the weakest use of EU funds, that we don't have construction machines i.e. companies that are strong, that were once strong to determine huge businesses. Today we have problems and with agglomerations of big money that the tribune invests to protect nature and the environment, but we, we destroyed all public procurement For he who gave more for the campaign [[Intruder: Time.]] That's what's left, that's what's left and that's early society cancer, and that's the triba loud talk, corruption. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33120	Next individual debate, MP Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33121	Dear MPs and MPs, as far as the very essence of this law is concerned, equating rights in relation to the obligations of members of the public procurement committee, can only be said at last. Since 2013, I have been following the implementation of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, and unfortunately until today, there are a whole series of public authorities that are one foreign bond of conduct in line with all the restrictions and obligations of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, and they do not have the same rights that state officials have. So in that part, I can say that I support this balance because the only balance of rights on the one hand, and the obligation on the other is some kind of framework for initial justice. I'm saying initial justice. So everything I'm about to say doesn't really go either, and here, in the context of this law that belongs to the section of the resolution ministry, what could have been done is done. So unfair solutions should be corrected but not in this way. This is really bad. This is actually a wrinkle that, I apologize for, but that's how HDZ gets a chance to corrupt institutions and institutions again. And now I'm going to explain it in two ways. The first form of corrupting institutions is to tell one of them here's something I'll give you, I'll give you something of a right, and then I'll hold you in that hand. This is done here in a way to assign certain status material rights that make a strange combination between rights belonging to government officials and officials. And when we talk about how HDZ will hold one institution in a hand, here is counterpart Anka Mrak Taritaš, in the opening presentation, mentioned by Mr Vandjelic, and I will say that the moment a regulatory body comes into a situation that instead of through a public call and selection procedure in the Croatian Assembly, we are named by the government in a way that we already have a direct possibility of interference in how this person will act when he starts exercising his powers. And at one general level, the problem is even multiplying. So, these solutions create a mess and chaos as if we're not working and chaos is not enough and it's not enough. The only correct solution would be to define for all persons who have the rights of state officials, i.e. pardon the obligations of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, one and the same scope of law, whether we put it in the Law on State officials or in some other, but in any case in one single law in which the same rights apply to all. What are we going to get with this law, and before that, we had a Competition Agency and their leaders are officials within the meaning of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, so some of their material rights are being resolved elsewhere. In other words, for each body, or not for each body, but for too many bodies whose leaders fall within the scope of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest, one level of their material rights will be prescribed in different legal acts or laws in different ways. It's impossible to control, it's impossible to control. In addition, it creates legal uncertainty, and we will simply not know what awaits them. There is no logic or legal basis for a single level of officials to have equal rights to work legal status such as annual vacations. Therefore, it does not make any sense that the right to an annual vacation is subject to employees or heads of the Agency for Protection, for the control of the procurement process, and not to a whole series of others. So, I appeal if we want order, if we want the rule of law and the rule of law then people who have a certain status, let's call it the status of officials in terms of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest must also have a uniform, uniformly prescribed table of rights which they belong to. Everything else is actually like I said generating injustice, inequality, chaos and chaos. The only thing that suits such chaos is, unfortunately, the HDZ that creates such chaos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33122	Next individual debate by representative Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33123	My colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives, we are always again and again opening up the issue of both public procurement and corruption and control mechanisms. My answer to those questions is very banal. We need new people. Why do I put focus on people rather than laws, than on control mechanisms that control the implementation of these laws in action and in this case the public procurement system? For reasons that laws can always be misused or bypassed. They don't stick to the law as a drunk float, it's been said long ago, I'll be very specific about how it works in case of public procurement. Let us always assume that the most economically favourable offer is a very good criterion for fair treatment in terms of choosing the best offer. And how does that work in the case of architecture? Let's say we need to get chairs for a certain space we're working on as part of public procurement. Let's put 400 kuna into the cost list, get a performer who put that price of 200 kuna and then put cheap chairs that fail in a year and a certain space kitchen has to buy new chairs. So companies put unreal prices to get jobs and then save on materials and we get bad products. The competition for designing a public building, I deliberately took architecture because it is a problem with public procurement that will follow us all the time in the future, as we are expected to have a large restoration of the great part of the country. Competition for designing a public facility, I want to pick up and look for two friendly companies that will make a stronger offer than I do because there have to be a minimum of 3 firms that report. And then, in a review of the criteria, they make sure who can satisfy the application at all, and they say that the criteria are such that they suit me, e.g. So far, a minimum of two public buildings or something like that have been executed, of course a fourth one may occur and should be profiled through the criteria they set. And that's how it all works out and gets whoever's supposed to get it from the start. Public procurement is one of the activities on which the implementation and raising of preventive policies and standards in the fight against corruption should be constantly worked on, we say, in the anti-corruption strategy for the period 2015 to 2020. The corruption risks in public procurement in the area of health care are generally high due to the high price of medical equipment procurement. When we talk about this, in general, my basic question here is why we bypassed the procedure of public procurement of medical equipment during the crown of the crisis by justifying it with a specific market situation and concern for the safety and interest of our citizens, and again in January almost a year after the original decision this year, we reiterated this same criterion despite the fact that the whole market has been resettled and that the supply of medical equipment to which more than half a billion kuna was spent goes through public procurement. But the EU, which we are part of for the purchase of medical equipment even in this crisis through public procurement, and what we are getting, and as far as medical equipment is concerned through the EU, is also following this same public procurement process. Why can the criteria of public procurement apply to the EU, and in Croatia they are skipped? As regards this concrete legislative framework that we are currently talking about, the issue of conflict of interest in Article 7 which does not particularly regulate when it is possible to seek a return to the work of an employer who has been a party to the procedure before the State Commission, I am talking about a private employer in the past 12 months, opening up a space for the possibility of conflict of interest if this previous employer or potential and future public tender. When this remark was put on this bill, it was said that it would be subject to the internal acts of the State Commission for the control of the procurement procedure. So, we have a situation again that it is not the law that will clearly, unequivocally and transparently regulate in this case the rights and obligations of officials who are members of the Commission who control public procurement, but we will again address the various sublaws which will not be available to the Croatian Parliament or will be able to influence them by their actions. When we talk about public procurement and I'm going to conclude that because time is already up, it's like that song, "I don't know whether I want it or not." Despite all the regulatory mechanisms in the coronary crisis, we continue to skip it, and if we were to introduce it because of the wrong people in the right places, the question of whether public procurement would help us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33124	We have two replicas. The first is Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33125	Thank you very much. My colleagues, public procurement is also aware of the secretary of state, she had laughed just before, probably realizing that it was true that the appointments in the public procurement control committee were simply a political act. They say he cannot be an official, but he will be the one appointed by the official, who will be more loyal to the official, but to the law itself and who will immediately do the job. So in us coalitions come together. E, coalitions in my Split-Dalmatia County for maritime good. There's, like, let's say, let's say... My maritime well-being is being resolved by the status of the coalition in Split-Dalmatia County of the Kerumov Party and HDZ. [[You don't understand.]] Here's Mr. Sanader for you to confirm. So, Ben, the Golden War, now you imagine and we're talking about... And it's all politics. [[You don't understand.]] I think who gives them money like in Slovenia 9 is going to get public procurement and that's it, and this is all demagogy and talk. You don't have to turn your head. This is true.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33126	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33127	The question is indeed in which way and to arrange this public procurement procedure for it to be fair, and these are not always these criteria that seem to be the best for us at first, like this lowest price. Maybe, like some countries, throw away the highest and lowest bid immediately, so look for a middle and then decide towards it. That remains an open question. But I'm afraid, I'm going to repeat that concern that even such criteria in this way in the functioning of the state, which is why I started with two very specific examples of how to bypass public procurement, that even what is currently profitable in the long run can prove even more expensive, will not help solve the problem of corruption. The problem of corruption is not one competition, one public procurement or one of its controls. This is the systematic problem of all mechanisms that enable individuals to apply for this competition, and that in the event of public procurement and procurement at all at the time of the crown they will establish companies that will obtain the same medical equipment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33128	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Sinisha Jankač.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33129	Dear fellow MPs, here are two examples. Both examples are interesting because you are talking about getting where the bidder was cheaper than the estimated estimated value of the items. Apparently, the paperwork was poorly prepared. If something is estimated at 400 kuna, and you get for 200 kuna, but that is the meaning of public procurement and preparation of documentation. So the unprepared paperwork. Secondly, you were talking about buildings that someone with two offers you were talking about small-value purchases, hardly anyone could build a building with 200 thousand kuna, up to 200 thousand kuna. So it definitely doesn't stand Well, you set an example. [[Intruder Selak Rasdic: You heard something wrong.]] Here's an example that someone can make two offers and with two offers you can arrange for building supplies if I get it right.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33130	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33131	So I wasn't talking about numbers. Now I don't know where you got the 200 grand, where did you hear that? No, I was talking about the number of offers. So not who's going to talk about such numbers. You may have heard 200 kunas for the chairs, so you transferred that number to this. So these are obvious examples of some concrete functioning where we all know that there's a failure in practice that we can respect the system of public procurement, and about medical equipment and everything else. Otherwise, you've now suspended her so we can respect the public procurement system and still its spirit bypasses it. So that was the intention of these concrete examples. And this example of chairs has only shown that someone can have this dumping prices that are much more expensive in the long term to maintain the facility itself than some fair price. Now in which direction we're going to solve whether we're really looking for a medium offer, we're rejecting the biggest or the smallest, it's one systematic problem of how to regulate the public procurement system. Although I repeat, he won't solve everything by himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33132	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Ljubomir Kolarek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33133	Thank you very much, well-respected chairman, respected secretary, colleague and fellow councilmen. For all of us who, with an honorary duty of representatives in the Croatian Parliament of the Republic of Croatia and who are part of the units of local self-government as mayors or other stakeholders of the public procurement government, is extremely interesting not in the sense that they allow actions that are not allowed, not in the sense that they strengthen the bargaining, but in terms of the acceleration, simplicity of the procedure, the acceleration of the appeal procedures which are an imminent part of all these public procurement procedures. I therefore welcome all these questions that address this bill. As we have heard from the motions to amend and supplement the provisions of the law on the State Commission for the control of the procurement procedure contained in the text of this draft law, the harmonisation of the rights and obligations of members of the state commission is achieved, provisions are introduced to ensure the continuity of the work of the body, the beginning and completion of the term of office are determined, and a public call is proposed as a way of selecting candidates to be proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So the changes to the law are mostly about people, people who will be part of the state commission and who will solve public procurement problems. By welcoming the law, I must return to the beginning. Speed it up, simplify it in all of this not to allow illegality and favoration, not to allow corruption. Many of the mayors gathered at the Association of the Cities of the Republic of Croatia warn of a concrete problem in the daily real difficulties in which we meet in the application of the Public Procurement Act, so it would be good to simplify and speed up public procurement in full and in particular in these initial steps and judgments, especially in second-degree procedures which are often very long and waiting for the decisions of the state commission. It seems to me that sometimes we want to get our own money out of our hands. If we want the funds in a rich European envelope intended for the Republic of Croatia to be used to the maximum extent possible, we must not be enemies to ourselves and cut these funds because of the slowness. I repeat again. I don't think the state commission should allow something that is illegal and outside the law, but I ask that solutions be created to solve problems as quickly and efficiently as possible. Also often local self-government units need to be in charge in the short and long term because someone's decision on the regularity of the procurement procedure is waiting to begin, and later all procedures in the implementation of a project in order to reach the final means is not good. We need to speed it up and simplify it. I hope these amendments of the law speed up, motivate the members of the commission on these procedures that I have highlighted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33134	We have two replicas. The first is representative Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33135	Dear counterpart Kolarek, I will agree with you that we should monitor not only European competitions, but also European values and that we should combat corruption. Then can you answer me in the spirit of your speech what you think about the government not wanting to return medical equipment to the public procurement process? And is that justified under these market conditions? And should that decision be revised? Especially given that we are relying on Europe to have a public procurement procedure in Europe for the purchase of medical equipment in the coronary crisis, as well as inscriptions new to some companies that have purchased medical equipment, and these companies belong to the nieces of some respected HDZs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33136	As far as getting medical equipment for and the speed of getting and keeping people's health, I think the procedure was okay. If there have been irregularities, there are state institutions that will establish these irregularities and punish the perpetrator.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33137	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Sinisha Jankač.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33138	Dear colleague Kolarek, as head of local self-government, must have met with many public procurement procedures, so can you tell me how much you've done about these public procurements and have you ever had any more serious problems in public procurement procedures?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33139	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Well, we've spent a lot of public procurement and large public procurement since the construction of the entrepreneurship center, kindergartens, sports halls. We didn't have a problem. There were no complaints. I can even say that there were problems in this, given that at one point many facilities from kindergartens were built in a very short period of time. It was also difficult to find a performer and prices were within some of the limits that we predicted in the cost list.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33140	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Vesna Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33141	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. So here is the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on the State Commission for the Control of the Public Procurement Procedure has been laid down that the State Commission is an independent and independent state body responsible for resolving complaints concerning the procurement procedure. The state commission has nine members, including one president and two vice presidents. The internal structure determines the Government by its regulation. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law prohibits the attempt to influence as well as the impact on the decision-making of the state commission. The State Commission for its work corresponds to the Croatian Assembly. However, Article 12a has been prescribed that, in the event of the termination of the term of office of a member of the state commission, the Croatian Parliament has not appointed a new member, the government will appoint a performer for a maximum of 12 months. Also in case of prevention or absence for more than 3 months, it is also up to 12 months. And now it's a question. What is the status of members of such an independent and independent state commission? Are they government officials or judicial officials? They are not because it is also decided in the light of this proposal to amend and supplement the Law. However, within the meaning of the provisions of Article 3(1), point (40) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest shall also include the President, Vice-Presidents and members of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. Since the legal rules in the Republic of Croatia are not coherent, it shows that the Law on the Obligations and Rights of State officials, which, by the way, has 27 amendments and additions to the list of state officials within the meaning of this law, does not cover the President, Vice-Presidents and members of the State Commission for Public Procurement Control. Are the members of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures civil servants? They are definitely not because they are employees of a professional and general service for the needs of a state commission. Thus, the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures has the status of some supernatural, independent and independent state body and appears to be composed of the genomes of all three of these laws. The State Commission's article on the control of public procurement procedures also has the right to pay wages after the termination of the duty and the right to return to work in the state and public sectors, but also to return to work and in the private sector. The question is which private entrepreneur will return after a five-year term of office, possibly another five years of members of the State Commission for Public Procurement Control, to return the employee to his company. Finally, it is argued that these amendments and amendments to the laws adopted for reasons to regulate the material and other rights of members of the State Commission. However, for each independent and independent state body, we cannot individually establish material rights. This also points to non-compliance in the regulation of the material and other rights of state officials who are bonds of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest and members of such independent and independent state bodies which cannot be decided by the ruling authorities whether they are civil servants, civil servants or something between which they correspond at a certain political point which in no case contributes to the independence and independence of members of those independent state bodies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33142	We have a replica. Dear Representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33143	Dear MPs, I fully agree with you that it is simply unacceptable that we have this discrepancies in material-legal regulation of the status of leaders of different bodies. And I do appeal to this Croatian Parliament to take care of it. Unfortunately, I have to say, no government has ever come to grips with the system as a whole. Obviously, it suits everyone that changes are made like this overnight, that they are always very superficial, that they always refer to the hand selected one institution or possibly two, three, while the vast majority remains out of radar. And then it is solved by the fact that individual bodies regulate and assign to their own internal acts the rights that are not governed by the law which is even worse than that those rights are not regulated at all. Well, here we go, without bringing it. One whole law, I think, unfortunately, is a very good idea in the wrong way. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33144	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33145	Thank you very much for the replica. Definitely such a pointical right-solving, the material rights of independent bodies is inappropriate and it is time to systematically approach this problem. I appeal to the promoters to think about this idea of systematically getting rid of all these independent state bodies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33146	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Sinisha Jankač.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33147	Dear Vice-President, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. Well, here, today we heard various debates, we could say here in these late hours some forest, the law of the road, because here it clearly speaks about the amendments and additions to the Law on the State Commission and the State Commission for the Control of the Public Procurement Procedure being the independent and independent state body responsible for resolving complaints in public procurement procedures. So the State Commission does not implement public procurement, but it is right here, and therefore there is to solve public procurement problems and thank God that there is and that eventually someone is having problems in public procurement, if he thinks that his rights are injured in public procurement, therefore there is a commission that solves complaints and brings legal advice. It's amazing for me to listen to some debates that said that here's the unnecessary qualification of these people that they're minors that they're people who have no idea, who are ignorant etc. However, they must be the most qualified public procurement agents. Public procurement must know more than all of us who are in fact and who are engaged in public procurement in order to be able to control all public procurement procedures in a good way and in a good way, so that they can ultimately cancel public procurement if they are in a way or in a bad way or if there is something wrong in that public procurement. That's why this is a good law, because he's just ensuring the quality of the employees gives them safety. And all that was so far not good and what was in some way not to say bad, but what were the shortcomings they were now correcting. It is important, and it has been noted, that members of the commission are in rights, and not only in obligations are equalized means of rights, and not just obligations are marked with state officials. It is important that the problem of legal voids is being overcome here as regards the replacement of members when he is somewhere on sick leave, when he is on an annual basis and it is important that the procedures that are being implemented naturally with this amendment of the law will no longer be tolerated. So far, that has not been settled, and this law deals with it. However, I must say that by clear regulation of law and by law, it contributes to additional legal certainty. Clearly when it comes to material rights, but as we have heard when it comes to obligations. It is important that, after the end of the term, these people have some kind of legal and material security that they are not thrown on the road. Although here I can immediately declare that every single person in this company, every quality firm or unit of local self-government will hire him very quickly because this person knows all about public procurement and these are high-value people in each of those companies means business entities, in every unit of local self-government that we're carrying out procurement and we know the value of such people so that in some way they're given one option here, they're given security. But as I say, these people need to know, and they certainly know a lot about public procurement. The Commission for Public Procurement Control should continue to be strengthened and this is exactly the process of empowering the Commission. The important thing is that it means what it's been, for example, so far. if the leader has changed or if the opinion of that leader has changed often the commission itself has been hit and in some ways here are these amendments of the law we get one body that has its own independence and certainly has its own quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33148	Two replicas. She is the first representative of Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33149	Your Honor, don't underestimate everything that's been said in today's debate. It is not a major problem in the commission itself and in their resolution of the case on appeal. The problem is in terms of the definition of competitions and the largest number of corruption affairs arises precisely in this pre-phase. Unfortunately, this law does not work out well. And as far as matter is concerned, it is in everyone's interest that the heads of the commission be the most qualified possible people. If we want such people, we must pay them adequately, and their material status must be appropriate. But that does not mean that this law has chosen a good solution. When a legislator singles out an institution in this way, it can be considered very often by corrupting the institution because it raises the question of who the law is written for. Why exactly solve the problem, which is more what we say, so we, the government, are going to replace the missing members, and we know what it looks like when HDZ's government puts leaders in principle independent control bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33150	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33151	Here's my dear colleague. I'm glad we agree that this is good. You're the only one who says it point-blank. Well, here I would say step by step. So here we are on a good path, we can tell. If we're one committee, and you've also praised these decisions to somehow strengthen the commission. However, here I believe that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will continue at this pace and wherever they appear and there are problems that will sort them out in some way. What was clearly said in my very beginning of the speech, and apparently some MPs do not understand that the State Public Procurement Control Commission is not carrying out public procurement, but is controlling public procurement. Public procurement is carried out by the institutions of local self-government, etc., etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33152	The next replica is the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33153	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Jankac absolutely agrees with your debate on the importance of the State Commission for Public Procurement Control and the framework laid down by law and this further amendment of the law contributes to the continued independence of the state commission itself and what is important, clearly its members. Value, this is what Mrs. Secretary of State said to me, the overall value of public procurement in Croatia is about 43 billion kuna, which speaks of the importance of the commission and its members who oversee the overall process of public procurement. So this law goes on and on, and I absolutely support you in what you've said.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33154	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33155	Thank you, Comrade Bacic. Well, of course, I'm glad you agreed to my debate. However, institutions need to be strengthened. Those employed in those institutions should be assured that, without pressure, they can carry out quality supervision. Public procurement here we heard and in today's debate let's say the stone is a stumbling block. But without public procurement, where would we be? So, on the one hand, some colleagues declare public procurement that it's no good. But what model and what model does he choose then offer if we don't have a public procurement? However, I agree that there are various models of public procurement in the European Union. And whether our best and best quality of it can be discussed. But without public procurement, we'd be in total chaos.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33156	The next replica is the esteemed representative Ana Marija Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33157	Thank you very much. Here you are, saying you need to empower the state commission. Today, even in the debate, we heard from some colleagues and colleagues that we don't need a state commission or we don't need a state commission as a control mechanism, but it should be the Public Procurement Act itself. I think I got it right. I'm interested, because this is how you put it all together with the state commission, and at the end of the day, there was more talk maybe about the Public Procurement Act, how many public procurements did you conduct at your mayoral office, or perhaps even more concrete questions, whether you met with the procedure, in the process with the state commission?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33158	Here, as head of local self-government, I'm leaving from the end. I've done the i.e. I was in charge of the implementation, so here I think that over 50, between 50 and 100 procedures and public procurement, and small purchases, etc. As a colleague of the mayor, you know what I'm talking about, and I'm glad you know the subject. Unfortunately, some of the colleagues should study what it is public and what public procurement is talking about. A comment on the removal of the commission, so who would we end up with, or those competing in public procurement that they would complain to? So we wouldn't have anyone to complain to. Only then would we have huge problems, so I think it's more or less clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33159	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Ankica Zmajić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33160	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretary of state with a co-worker. The State Commission is an independent state body responsible for resolving complaints concerning procurement procedures, concessions and selecting a private partner in public-private partnership projects. In accordance with the European standards in the Republic of Croatia, there is a State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures which, in the administrative procedure, resolves complaints about the procedures for the conclusion of public procurement contracts, framework agreements and competitions to which the Public Procurement Act applies. The principles of the procurement procedure to be followed by the contracting authorities are the principle of freedom of movement of goods, the principle of freedom of business, the principle of freedom of provision of services, including the principle of competition, the principle of equal treatment, the principle of prohibition of discrimination, the principle of proportionality and the principle of transparency. The public procurement system directly affects the economy of the whole country and the state is, of course, an important economic factor and, as I said before, the level of cash transactions must have a significant impact on the economy throughout the country, and therefore the impact of the state must be positive and encouraging. The current law has seen legal and technical shortcomings and practice has shown that there are shortcomings related to ensuring the continuity of the work of the State Commission, the precise determination of the start and end of the mandate, and the termination of the term of office by force of the law, as well as the choice of candidates proposed by the Government of the Croatian Parliament. I am aware that these shortcomings and problems have also been discussed at the meetings of the Council for the Prevention of Corruption, which I am also a member on behalf of the Croatian Community of municipalities, and as an activity and strengthening the legislative framework for public procurement, harmonisation of the law proposed in the 2019 and 2020 action plan in the Anti-Corruption Strategy for the period 2015 to 2020. I would like to emphasise that the State Commission has been established as a state body outside the system of state administration and judicial bodies to provide legal protection in public procurement on the harmonisation of laws and other rules in relation to the application of the control procedure for the conclusion of public procurement contracts and of goods and public works. From the Annual Report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for 2019, we learned that the State Commission received in 2019 1209 complaints about public procurement, which are broad spectrum, and it is necessary to invest a lot of time and knowledge for solving these issues. I am already a long-standing municipal chief, but through the implementation of public procurement in the municipality as simple as possible, which I did not have the need or opportunity to cooperate with the State Commission, which is also in one sense commendable, but I am informed by my fellow commissioner that both the work and activities of the State Commission are much more effective and faster complaints are resolved compared to a few years ago. It is therefore very important that these amendments and amendments to the law achieve the harmonisation of the rights and obligations of the members of the State Commission, and the provisions to ensure the continuity of the work of the body, and to define the start and completion of the term of office of members and to propose a public call as a means of selecting candidates to ensure quality experts to control the procurement process. Here, we could hear from the debates of certain opposition deputies that these amendments and amendments of the law are favourable to the members of the State Commission. I disagree with that and it is not true but I welcome the amendments and additions to this law that is good and good.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33161	We have a replica. Dear Representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33162	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Zmajic, you spoke about public procurement and your experience with, or inexperience with, the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. I sincerely congratulate you, for it is rare for the captains, the chiefs who can boast so much. We've usually heard it from the opposition lines, and now there's no one here that's as corrupt as it's all wrapped up in some cloak of fog, and basically when it comes to a decision it's seen that a lot of these decisions are being made in favor of just the orderly. I am sure that already European projects that will be implemented in the area of your municipality will be more interested and that it is possible that you will have a meeting with the Commission, but I am sure that it will be resolved in your favour. Well, here's another sincere commendation. It's rare to hear that someone didn't have a meeting with the State Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33163	Here's a thank you, colleague. I've been Chief for 20 years. We've been running a series of public procurements. I hope that in the current implementation of these projects that will be funded from EU funds we have a lot of them and we have just published a public procurement that is under way. The value of the works is over 8 million kunas, so here I hope if there's anything that we can do to cooperate with the State Commission, it'll all be in favor of our client again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33164	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Anamarija Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33165	Dear Vice President, State Secretary with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. I saw what I saw tonight, and I saw that there was a real public procurement expert among us, so that's where the work figures were mentioned. But here is just a reminder to those who claim that the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures is conducting a public procurement procedure, I will read this Article 3. The Law on Amendments and Supplements, or the Law on the State Commission, so I will return to this subject which is actually today. It states Article 3: "The State Commission is an independent and independent body responsible for resolving complaints." and again, "In the appeal procedure, the State Commission does..." therefore does not carry out an absolute procurement procedure. It must not be carried out in this sense in which it was spoken today. But here I will try to get back to the subject of today's debate, and I will say that we all mention the state commission most often from all state bodies, or all of us who are bonds of public procurement. We conduct procedures and we often wonder who these DCOM members are, as we call it, which will decide if our case is found before them to solve. We see that these are highly educated persons, first of all public procurement experts who have a specific and important position in the context of their work, primarily in the field of public procurement. Their obligation is to protect economic operators and to combat corruption in a unique way. Furthermore, we know they have a large number of objects. We have heard over a thousand if I am not mistaken, and with that responsibility, especially since we are users of the European Union funds. They must quickly and quality-solve the appeal cases in order to be able to implement EU funds projects and to prevent irregularities, and these irregularities are one of the causes of the return of funds. Therefore, their high level of professionalism is needed. The state body, the state commission is therefore a state body that is very similar to the judiciary organisation. Not to the judiciary, but to their organization, and members are also bonds to fill the property card, so in some way officials, and that is what the Law itself says about preventing conflicts of interest. I didn't say they were officials, only in terms of the law. As officials, we are aware of the corrupt risk when the regulations are not public and this law reduces the corrupt risk for members of the state commission. We certainly need to define clear rules in all public spheres, and therefore we need to support transparent regulation of the rights and obligations of officials, as well as others that touch the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, as well as the public proposal of candidates in this case by members of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. By reading these amendments, we see that certain material rights are defined as similar to those regulated for officials, but it certainly falls into the eyes of that Article 7b I consider it good and as an anti-corruption risk measure because, in accordance with the applicable rules on the prevention of conflicts of interest, there are restrictions after the termination of the exercise and the public duty, and therefore I think they should be protected in this way. What we should draw attention to is the continuity of the work or appointment of the performer of the member until the appointment by the Croatian Parliament until the appointment, so again we will return the Parliament will appoint him afterwards, or until the member returns to office. Procedures in the resolution of cases under the jurisdiction of the State Commission are laid down by deadlines which are extremely important for the effectiveness of the procurement procedure. Often in public procurement procedures, cases are found in front of members of the state commission. The investor is awaiting the decision of that body to determine the further course of the project. When we talk about projects funded by European funds, the quick decision of the state commission, or members of the state commission, is even more important in order to prevent any financial corrections that I have talked about and that is why I think it is important that the continuity of decision-making is ensured primarily by legal deadlines. And from the perspective of a person who has the authority of public procurement at his office, I welcome this law with all its provisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33166	We have two replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33167	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues Blažević and I were the head of the local self-government unit 28 years ago and I know how modest they were then... the legal framework for the definition of public procurement behaviour. [[You don't understand.]] As the leaders of local self-government, regional self-government, the leaders of public companies in Croatia, their officials have established this whole system, I think we have upgraded this in Croatia and today we can say that public procurement is more transparent and clear than we were in earlier years when we have implemented Croatia's accession procedure for full membership in the European Union. The State Commission is doing well today to say this because it has established a kind of practice and is a pandan of judicial practice, which then sets up a certain framework for the contracting authorities to make as few mistakes as possible in the procedure itself. What we may not be saying today would interest me enough, and I know it was 2018. a very small number of cases destroyed in the Administrative Court brought by the state commission. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] So I think it's one of the ways she can function very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33168	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33169	Yes, here's your experience, I'm sure you know, and I can agree with you. I don't know if there's been a crash lately either. But this transparency you mentioned touched me. And now that I'm looking at it from my perspective, I have to say that the transparency of the state commission is very important to us, because we often catch reading, or the solutions they've made, the decisions they've made, and that's why we can focus too. So, I welcome that. I welcome any progress made by the state commission in this direction, as it facilitates both the work on the ground and the public procurement process.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33170	The next replica is the esteemed representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33171	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Blažević, I would like to agree with you and also point out that it is particularly important to deal with those items relating to the supply of goods and services to be financed from European funds. When we know that 10.7 billion euros have been available to us since 2014, that we have agreed 111%, or over 12 billion euros, I would say that few of these funds have not been on the board of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, and this is about particularly extensive and complex procedures related to the time period. On the other hand, most often we have a high estimated value, on the other hand we have consortiums, we have legal experts who are under special supervision and fear, of course, with different legislation than domestic legislation, fear of recalling funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33172	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33173	In fact, if Croatia's entry into the EU and opening all these tenders, and our access to EU funds proved to be just as important as the State Commission, their speed, efficiency, I would even say because only a small, small period of time have so that very complicated public procurement can be solved. We all suffer from this especially when it comes to European money because of possible financial corrections. But what may be even worse is that if they don't move quickly, we can lose all resources, or we won't be able to sign contracts at all. That's why I welcome the work of the State Commission and congratulate them on their work so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33174	Next final debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33175	Thank you very much. I'm often critical of the ruling Parliament, and now I'm going to be critical of the opposition, regardless of which it may not be collegiate. But a very important public procurement regardless of the differences, disagreements. I think there is something to be said about this issue, because public procurement is 16% of GDP from our taxpayers regardless of whether or not it was European funds going through public procurement. It is huge money only in Zagreb when we see how much the problem is with the cablers or when we go down towards Dalmatia how many public procurements we have and how many problems we have through public procurement. Because public procurement is essentially a key problem whether it will be competition, competitiveness, whether it will be transparency, whether it will get a job that is better quality and those who are better or will get certain jobs that are more similar, which in some way were local, national or irrelevant now from which position. This significant, when we talk about the commission, commission and duty cannot be on the committee officer, can't it? And who's gonna be on the committee? It's someone who's going to be put in charge again, so it's not some element. I mean, it's not something. But I think the key and the problem is public procurement that our industries failed when we had the biggest projects such as the fast road Zagreb – Split. That's when the iron was installed, I repeat it the fifth time today, the iron I mean viaducts, tunnels, I don't know how many hundreds of thousands of tons of iron it was. At that time, however, Split's iron mill fell, not a gram of Split's ironworks. So we have a problem with what public procurement destroyed competition on the principle of Slovenia 9, where the partnership of people from certain state services is local self-government. I just took an example. But it's also local. And here's a little while ago, my colleague mentioned to Jurič that we had a 111% contract in this 2014/20. But we at least pulled the funding. It's only when I follow public procurement that tears come to my eyes, not because I'm something smart now, and I want to be smart when I see that there's agglomeration question. And we know what the river Cetina means, who's down there, what Cetina means for that end, not just like drinking water. However, there are problems about EU funds, so it is not great. We are mostly on the withdrawn assets at the bottom of the EU, and how much we have agreed on this could be discussed. We have to speak 500 percent, not 110% of 10.7 billion euros. But the fact is, let's say the agglomeration of Sinj is in the problem not only of sewers, drains and all the tribas, improvements in water supply systems, but also of environmental issues. We'll have pens and public procurement. Here is the Center for Waste Management of Lečevica, which has been spent so far in the project 30 million kuna. An absolutely public procurement has been carried out that has been transferred over 100 percent. So also in case of agglomeration of Sinj, so the important projects that are being implemented, this is on a colleague just before she said how much money they agreed on. You can make a billion percent deal. As far as we're concerned, it's over in 2023. Therefore, he believes public procurement can be a huge problem. Here is only when I mentioned the port of Gaženica, on several occasions it was mentioned how much money was invested for the access road from the highway to Gaženica, that it was transferred 200 percent. Instead of 200 million, it went to 600 million roads. The port itself of Gagenica a billion and a half kuna. So it's a huge project. And what does the effects matter here? All resources of respected colleagues and colleagues coming from EU funds over the next 10 years say it will be around 2 billion euros annually. Do you know how many years it comes to Croatia from our evicted people who are due to intransparency and public procurement and the destruction of competition just as much money per year from Croatian citizens who have evicted payments through their families or I don't know how. And that's the problem. The problem is that people are because there was no transparency and that competition was destroyed, such as the case of Slovenska 9 or Požega example Požega. There's a trade in us all over the place. I mentioned beaches, concessions, maritime well-being And that's one of the key problems. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33176	On behalf of the promoter, the finally respected State Secretary, Natasa Mikush Zigman.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33177	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, esteemed MPs. I'm glad, I'll look back on some of the things that were brought out in the debate. I'm glad you're back because some of the arguments have been going on your side too, so I'd like to react a little bit to them. In fact, the debate was much wider than the very content of the law proposed. We know that public procurement is regulated by another regulation, so much wider than what's there. And I would also say that mentioning certain elements such as the names of certain streets absolutely have nothing to do with public procurement, so that just maybe we should stick to the topic we're discussing today. Should there be a control mechanism in the public procurement system? So I believe that there should be a control mechanism, because, of course, for every procedure that is being implemented, and in particular the procedure through which public money is being spent, therefore there is a constitutional right to legal protection in certain procedures that we are carrying out, and the directive itself on legal protection in public procurement that we have implemented in our Croatian legislation implies that such legal protection should be made possible. In the end, why would the tenderer involved in the proceedings not have the right to appeal if he considered that the procedure had been damaged? Therefore, we must ensure this right necessarily, and I do not think that the right to appeal, i.e. the control mechanism, control mechanism in the public procurement system, should be questioned. As regards these segments relating to the resolution of the status of members of the State Commission, Article 12 which was mentioned, so where we have prescribed, we have suggested that the Government may exceptionally fill the place of deputy member of the Commission in case a certain member of the Commission is long-term absent means either for sick leave or for some other reason for a longer time is unable to participate in the work of the Commission. I must say, these are very exceptional cases. So far, one of these has happened, but unfortunately it has disabled the work of the state commission. It works in three bodies, so three members, and is dealt with in procedures, in appeal procedures, and for the reason that this member has not been present for a long time. One three-member commission couldn't work. This is exactly what we wanted to solve at the technical and operational level, and on the other hand, it is undeniable that the Parliament appoints members of the State Commission on the mandate of this proposal on the basis of a public call, on a five-year term. So, in fact, the question arises if this were to be resolved in a different way, would the Parliament once again and replace the mandate and for what period if it were to be done, therefore only the temporary inaccessibility of a member of the State Commission. The thesis on the percentage share of public procurement was presented, so in GDP and where it goes. I'd just say it like this. So 43 billion kunas from public funds are spent annually, so to speak, through public procurement procedures. This is indeed a significant amount when it comes to gross domestic product. Compared to that, 10 million kuna is the budget for the State Commission. So if we compare these two figures, we can see what the cost of the State Commission is, and what volume of proceedings it actually solves. Of course he handles complaints. In the event of a complaint to the Commission, this procedure is then resolved in this way, which means that it does not solve all 13,000 cases, but here is the specific statistics for 2019 telling us that 243 solutions have been adopted. So these are the procedures in which the commission solves it. However, this does not in any way mean that the total amount of public procurement as it has been made in one of the the thesis goes to the commission. So he's actually going into the economy. Therefore, the Commission is now allowing its work to apply the prescribed rules and procedures, if this is necessary by correcting errors if they occur in the public procurement system, to economic operators that are bidders in the procurement procedures. The question of returning to work with the employer after the end of the term of office shall be made possible only if the employee, so if he returns to the public or state administration body, has already been employed by the basis of the public tender. So it's impossible for someone to go back to the public or state administration if he wasn't already there where he came from on the basis of a public tender. And we believe that it is simply fair to achieve this balance between the obligations it has under the Law to prevent conflicts of interest and rights that can be given analoguely to some other regulations. Returning to the right of private employer is also possible if, of course, the person concerned has been employed by the employer and the issue of conflict of interest has been raised, a possible conflict of interest if the offeror therefore filed a complaint against the State Commission. What I must say is that the procedure in the Commission is governed by the Administrative Procedure Act. The law itself states that situations in which a conflict of interest could arise must be avoided, and for this reason we have suggested, that an internal act should be prescribed in which way a person will be exempt, or it must be excluded from those procedures in which he or she may possibly participate and decide on the complaints of the tenderers who, possibly with whom she was previously in a business relationship. So that's how we suggested that we deal with this situation. Alternatively, the question arises, and why should we ban a person from returning to work if he was therefore in a working relationship with that employer? Is it correct to allow a return to the public sector while also prohibiting someone from returning to work with a private employer? And here, in the end, I might just say that I'm glad, in fact, that a number of MPs have brought out the thesis and arguments about a really high level of professionalisation and the way of professional working by members of the state commission. I think that, in addition to that, it also speaks to the fact that a certain number of members are working in the composition of the state commission, regardless of who is at the moment in position or opposition. Therefore, it absolutely appreciates their expertise and is based on it that the same members are appointed, and they are called the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33178	Thank you very much. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You can go sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33179	Thank you very much. The Honorable Chairman, the State Secretary injured Article 238 where she told the truth that parliamentary deputies spoke outside the box. Public procurement of this law, public procurement is very important and not just about the commission. We have regulations. However, I am sorry that you did not comment on whether a good public procurement in Slovenia 9 was carried out. In Slovenia, 9 was spent at Janafa Mountain. Is that public procurement? We say that we have good laws and control mechanisms, but public procurement is run in Croatia... Competitiveness [[You don't understand.]] That's what I was gonna say. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-10-0.u33180	You don't have to answer, it's not a replica. ... It's not a replica. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] This wasn't an injury. You have a warning. We've exhausted the debate with this. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Tomorrow we will continue at 9.30 p.m. with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework. Have a good night, everybody. WEEK, WEEK, WEEK, WEEK, WEEK, WEEK, WEEK.
