ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u42770	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. Since the very establishment of the Homeland Movement, it has warned that our health system is an oncological patient, not because of thousands of valuable people and top experts working in it, but because of the way it is managed, especially in the field of income management and expenditures. In fact, these hardworking people are among the biggest losers of such management because the job was done for a significantly lower salary than their counterparts from the rest of the EU. At first we warn that the system is absurd for a number of reasons. First, the system is mostly, in a share of even 80%, funded by employers who additionally allocate 16.5% to the basic health insurance premium. This brings together around 23 billion kuna, which is a huge burden for employers, one reason why Croatia is less competitive than attracting foreign investment, and yet too little to maintain such financial stability of the system. Therefore, the budget additionally allocates a significant amount of 2.6 billion kuna in 2020 and 2.7 billion kuna in 2021, reaching 6.9% of GDP in health, which makes Croatia 4th among the Central and Eastern European countries. In addition to other HZZO revenues that range around 2.1 billion kunas, the total available health funds are around 28 billion kunas per year. However, that is not enough for this system management either. Debts not only accumulate but increase from year to year. The unsustainable Croatian health system is a time bomb not only for the financial system but also for all its stakeholders, primarily medical staff and patients because it is certain that due to demographic changes and cost increases the problems will accumulate further. Out of years of ignoring this problem, the government recently woke up with several irresponsible statements. First, the health minister announced that an increase in the insurance premium for employers and the participation of patients was imminent, and then the prime minister added to the embarrassing statement that he asked Beros and Maric to scratch a little at the cost of health because there may be unnecessary costs among the billions. A superficial statement by the irresponsible prime minister who has persistently ignored this and all other key problems of the Republic of Croatia. They only grow in the meantime, the health system is in huge problems and no small scratching is enough but a thorough restructuring. However, it is necessary to first control the costs of a system that is now uncontrollable without adequate management. Transparency of the existing situation and necessary controls could be introduced long ago as funds from European funds for the digitisation of the system have been available for a long time. But there it was waiting for former Sanader's health minister to open a private consulting firm in August 2020 and he to monitor the digitalisation of the system as if he hadn't done it before 15. that he knew. He didn't know. The minister knows very well that the necessary digitisation that people who do not have the necessary experience will certainly not succeed, but he does not want to or must not react. It's strange that neither does the Ministry of Finance that neatly transfers taxpayers' money to health care by patching up irresponsible management holes. We're sure the DORH has work to do there, and we hope they're doing it. The only thing the health minister thought of was for existing employers to raise health insurance premiums for all workers in order to further demotiate entrepreneurs and investors to invest in the Republic of Croatia. He also wanted to raise insurance participation in the cost of using services. Before ensuring that insurance companies have to separate more states, they must do their part of the job and arrange for the management of a health system that is too expensive for those who pay it, an increasing burden for taxpayers, and increasingly less effective for those who work in it and who are being treated in it. Instead of ignoring the growing problems, an urgent analysis of the existing situation and trends is needed, as well as the launch of necessary system reforms. Of course, health reform that will settle costs is just one of the necessary reforms, to increase income we need more jobs. In fact, if our employment rate were at the level of the working population in Slovenia, it means only 10% already higher than the health income would now be around 3.5 billion kunas higher than today, which, with better cost control, would be enough to edit the system. We're so close and so far from the solution. However, who persistently and irresponsiblely ignores this problem will certainly never solve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u42771	Thank you. Mrs. Devereaux. Anya Simpraga will be the position of the SDSS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u42851	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Cikots, Branesci, Oževci, Krička, Krbava, Tolić, Svrčevsko Selo, Podlapača, Mekar, Pećani, Velika Popina, Biočić, Otješić, Dobropolci, Bijelina. These are villages around Pakrac, villages in Lika and Dalmatia. What connects them are lonely and dislocated households, usurped agricultural land, uncontrollably keeping cattle, or terror stronger. Individual phenomena of other people's property usurpation have turned into a trend under the influence of generous agricultural support. Especially inhumane and reckless behaviour of cattle owners occurs in villages where the majority of the ageing population lives. In the area like residents have been struggling with these problems for years. Private agricultural land in the village of Lika is used without the rental agreement, and there is cattle of horses and cows wandering unsupervised by doing damage to the property, endangering the population and domestic farmers. Landowners are mostly older age returnees who, because of their own impotence or legitimate fear, do not report the problem to competent institutions, and owners who hold cattle illegally from the state receive enormous agricultural incentives on their throats. In Rudopolje, the unknown owner of cows came up with the idea that the ideal place for cattle pasture is an old Orthodox cemetery which he then even fenced. Even when they report to the police and to the agricultural inspector, everything stays on record. They're being referred to as private lawsuits. We know how long court proceedings and how much they cost. It's not just face, and it's not just character cases. The people of Otišic, 20th, signed a petition against the illegal holding of cattle by the owner of cows from the neighbouring village. They warn how the entire village has become a hostage to an individual. Every day they drive other people's cows from their pastures and their ornaments and courtyards. Their locals in the village have been destroyed gardens hard to plant with their rough hands. The police, of course, come as soon as the cows are gone, so they ask old grandmothers, who's done you harm, what's the damage, and where are those cows? The escalation of conflict mainly ends with threats based on national police intervention and criminal research, and what does the law say about these situations? The Animal Protection Act says that the owner must not leave his domestic animal and if he does otherwise, he commits an offence for which up to 50,000 kuna can be fined. The same law states that the owner is obliged to exercise control of all animals held in the production system at least once a day. For any non-compliance and non-compliance, a penalty is prescribed, and the control of the implementation of these measures by the Ministry of Agriculture on the ground is carried out by veterinary and agricultural inspectors from the State Inspectorate. After the police leave, the agricultural and veterinary inspectors, the establishment of damages, the owners of whose cattle destroys other people's property, instead of penalties and sanctions, you know what they get? He's getting millions of state support. On the other hand, for example from the village of Ocestovo near Knin, the son after the death of his father wants to pass on to himself the OPG, wants to be the bearer and is left without support because of an administrative error and no one is responding and is not considering how this man will live on. The local population warns of this increasingly common phenomenon. The SDSS advocates' club has requested, but also earlier, the effective action of the competent institutions to address the problem of using private agricultural land registered without the ARCOD lease agreement. Lands suitable for organic farming of cattle, sheep and goats are mostly located in Lika and Dalmatia. In the natural environment of personal pastures and debris, generations have grown up, and this is the way domestic agriculture, respected colleagues, can neither be developmental nor stimulating. However, since the same competent authorities do not have an appropriate solution, the usurpation and use of other people's land continues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u42852	Thank you, too. Now it is Mr. Silvano Hrelja's turn that will be the position of the Club of Representatives of HSS and HSU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u42876	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We often hear the magic word "responsibility" because of the frequent use of too much of it. Why are we using it? To show those responsible to be responsible and to remain responsible? Is that so much to point out? The more these words and messages are promoted, the less there are. It's the same with vaccination because when you go wrong, you can't fix it with a message. They broadcast on all radios and TV channels, networks and portals. It's not working. There's a saturation. An additional problem is when responsibility is called upon by those who are constantly working and allow exceptions. Religious gatherings, funerals, anniversarys. There is a serious devastation of the concept of responsibility. Because of the lack of responsibility upstairs, the elderly die innocent children, the sick are left without medication, healthy without work, poor and old abandoned, with no one and no means to live. The situation is alarming, our systems are falling apart, and the house is on fire. What for, I ask you, for what? Because responsibility doesn't live here. We can and must blame the ministers for being too politicians, and according to the profession or professions they cover. I personally told them at the government's presentation that they had just sat down for the driver of heavy trucks and that this was the beginning of daily learning. The function of the minister will not bring knowledge and experience. No, they won't, because you're not studying, because you don't ask, you don't ask the experts in your portfolio how you solve the problem, but you force your solutions, and those experts in fear of their own existence are silent. So, the formally responsible don't ask, the formally responsible don't answer, and the responsible don't get hurt. After the tragedy, we hear statements depicting all the misery of our amoral society. No employees, no time, not my job, no money, and then they say that human life has no price. Yes, there is. Unfortunately, it's usually very small with us. What are we when we leave innocent children unprotected? Innocent children, look out, guys, we're not, horde, mob, what are we? We're not even a pack because animals would protect their young. It's not easy for the minister, but I can see he cares, I can see he's shaken, he's shaken, he's even shaken. Minister, I expect action, Minister, break it up, prove you're a minister, no party cards, no drones, no parasites, the lives of innocent children are at stake. No one has the right to welcome a job pension whose duties are not carried out. Especially in the workplace that decides on human lives. I'm already sick when I hear reform, administrative surveillance, professional surveillance, documentation, it's all actually a cover-up and delaying solution until the public cools down and shifts their attention back to Ustashas and Partisans to some next tragedy. Please, everyone, but just love this people, be a part of that people, appreciate life, protect the future, most of the time I talk about and write about pensioners and warn that we have no respect for our own past. It makes me very sad. When I see this society's relationship with children, how it doesn't care about the future, that's what really scares me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u42877	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Sandra Bencic will hold the position of the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u42903	Thank you, Vice President. I'm going to keep talking about something, one topic that I started yesterday, which is one of the key topics for me and key affairs in the Republic of Croatia, which is the Borg affair, and one of its arms that goes towards the CNB. So these days we found out that Governor Vujcic was meeting with representatives of the Knighthead Fund and putting himself in the de facto position of their consultant. So, e-mails that one of the TVs that requested these e-mails through requests for access to information and which also the Commissioner for Information and the High Administrative Court gave the right to have the right to see the e-mails that Governor Vujčić sent from his official e-mail regarding Knighthead and their acquisition of Agrokor, so these e-mails clearly show that Governor Vujčić has repeatedly communicated with lower-ranked Knighthead advisers, not only has he communicated with them, but has met with them, and their correspondence has been about this way, first addressed to him by the Director for Investment Banking in South-Eastern Europe in JP Morgan, who is one of the stakeholders in the process because they are the creditor of Agrokora. So, one of the interested parties. And he tells him, Boris, we just finished our meeting with Anta. Who's Ante, we know, right? Ante Ramljak. A very constructive meeting. I'd like you to find yourself with Tom Wagner and establish a relationship. We hope to be part of the capital solution for Agrokor and I think open dialogue with all sides would be welcome. Here, that's about how you talk to the governor of the National Bank of the EU Member State. Next, he asks a low-ranking consultant, about, look, tomorrow we're here in Zagreb and we'd like to stop by your place tomorrow afternoon to review our little offer and make it more attractive. Hello, Adam. That's the way you talk to the governor of the CNB? Yesterday I asked a very clear and direct question to the prime minister, did he know that Governor Vujcic was meeting with one of the interested parties? He didn't find and refused to meet the Agrokor suppliers he owed to, refused to meet with the OPGs, refused to meet with all other interested believers but who he was with? With a voucher fund that went into the takeover of Agrokor. He was with them, so with one of the interested parties. Is that why he overstepped his powers? In my opinion, it's absolute. Did the Prime Minister know about this? We didn't get an answer because he didn't answer my question yesterday either, nor did the journalist who asked him that question answer it, but he turned around and left the interview. Why? Because there's obviously something to hide. Because apparently the truth would incriminate him and maybe he couldn't afford to lie about the Borg affair for the second time because he lied when he said he didn't know who was writing the law, which was then determined that he knew and that he was getting all the information about who was writing Lex Agrokor. And that he was informed by Martina Dalic about all this. But the cave further, yesterday, instead of answering, the prime minister offered me to draw the line and boasted of the successes in saving Agrokor. So I said let's really draw a line and say where it ended up, where this strategic company that made the special law work, ended up. He ended up mostly owned by two Russian banks but not by two Russian banks, but by a Russian state that owns the two banks. Along with all the rights Agrokor has, i.e. Former Agrokor, including for example, and concessions on aquatic goods without talking about all other things. The companies that did well are sold out, that's where we are today, 800 million kn of pension funds, or the cost of pension funds, that's where we can draw the line. Debt to our suppliers who still haven't been paid, not even a border debt, that's where we can underline the line We can underline the line on the fact that it's 600 [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] millions of kunas and more paid to counselors, and that's [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] A few times less border debt to non-paid suppliers. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, Mrs. Bencic.]] Let's line it up.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u42904	The only dictatorship we have to respect is the dictatorship of time. You'd better say the dictature of the kronometer. Ms Marijana Puljak will be the position of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u42967	I thank the chairman. Last week, the government finally presented the long-awaited National Recovery and Resistance Plan in 2021-2026, in fact, to tell the truth only presented a sketch of the draft. What does the sketch of the draft even mean, why didn't we get the whole plan to see if this was even our national plan or if it was Plenkovic's plan? It is therefore a major grant that Croatia will receive on top of the funds from the regular European budget, the plan weighs on 49 billion kuna, going to Brussels by the end of the month along with the National Reform Plan. For now, we know that the plan consists of six components, an economy and a green transition, to which 54% of resources are allocated, the public administration of the judiciary and state property with 10% alocation, education, science, research 15%, the labour market and social protection 4%, health care with 5% and reconstruction of buildings 12% of the funds. So we know how many out of 49 billion kunas of grants will be invested by components and we know what reform initiatives are related to individual sub-components. What we do not know is exactly what investments and programmes will be invested in and what amount and more importantly do not know how this money will be distributed between the public and private sectors. Under the components of the 26 billion-dollar economy, key words such as energy transition, transport system, waste management, water economy, therefore again all the public sector that is under our control of politics and in which corruption and clientelism are ultimately the cause of poverty throughout the country. As if we are entering a vicious circle, the grants will mainly be received by the public sector or will be controlled by the way that part of the cake will be given to that private sector that otherwise operates exclusively through public procurement with the public sector. So, what we have is, putting the billions of grants back under political control, and that's supposed to be a recipe for success, and we see how so far these successes have brought us. Political control led us to the day when we were contacted by people in panic because they had no medication. Oncological patients who return home with treatment because of their lack of medication. Last night on television, you have a manager of KBC Dubrava who says he has more drugs in five, six days. So, what kind of social resilience plan do we prepare for resistance to what, when basic systems of a state like health care, the socials are falling apart? What kind of state are we that can't protect their most vulnerable? Sick people don't have drugs, children die because social care doesn't work. As this National Plan for Resistance has been adopted, in fact without any public involvement and social partners is brought in five to 12. It's not really a national plan, it's really Plenkovic's plan. His adviser, Mr. Savic, who administered the preparation of the plan, is an employee who is hated, I can say freely, HGK, and follows the instructions of his boss, not the head of the chamber, but only Mr. Plenkovic. As far as I can tell, there's no communication with other ministries or ministers. It is evident that Plenkovic's plan is because the authority over the plan has neither the Ministry of Economy, which would be logical, nor the Ministry of Regional Development, which would be the most operational. So, how with the construction model of the railway, agglomeration will now achieve success in recovery and resilience when we saw an example of another prime minister to give us all road construction, bridge construction, municipal infrastructure, etc. in 2009 They couldn't help it. Plenkovic's plan in 2021 tries to copy Sanader's plan from the 2003 elections, which invested in large and public infrastructure projects that strengthened state-owned companies and public procurement, and some private companies that had failed to search for it and all built could not help and did not help us in the crisis in 2009, we sank the deepest in Europe then, exited from the crisis for five, six years while others had escaped only two years. Thus, grants are welcome, but Plenkovic's plan is more a recipe for a slow and long-term disaster than for the recovery and resilience of a society that has already fallen apart by its components. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u42968	Thank you. Now it is Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic's turn that will be the position of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u43055	Dear colleagues and colleagues. The Honorable Vice President of HS. I'd start by making it clear to everyone what I'm talking about. Milorad is watching as Milorad Milorad gives money to him. I'll repeat, Milorad is watching as Milorad has been giving the money to Milorad. So, in Croatia there is a magazine called “News” and it is this magazine “SNV Glasnik” and nothing is disputed except that it must be known that this magazine is funded by the money of taxpayers of our country and the Croatian state allocates millions of kunas for this magazine. It was directly for a magazine somewhere around 3 million and 600,000 kuna a year, I think that level and remained whatever the crisis, regardless of all that money is still being allocated, regardless of the modest circulation, and the Serbian National Council, whose messenger is getting a lot more money, and the head of the Serbian National Council until recently was Milorad Pupovac, is now his public Boris Milosevic, and Milorad, if I am not mistaken now, he is the president of the council of the Serbian People's Council. And then, in time, Milorad as a member of the National Minorities Council and as a member of the Committee, the Assembly Committee on National Minorities, gave himself money in the council, raised his hand for it, and then he controlled through the board how he was giving himself money and how he spent it. Top. It's only in Croatia. But why am I bringing this up? I think I mentioned the Serbian People's Council and News as a magazine several times. And we're all used to having millions of kunas going there, and then we listen to our colleague, Simprag, regretting that there's a Serb nemesis in the freed areas, and that's where they don't even know I'm walking on the loose, so give them some money, help them with these millions of kunas, fence them there so their animals can't wander, so there won't be any problems. But the problem is that I, as an agent without any evil intentions, simply warn of one fact, which is that in the municipality of the Bishop a few days ago, they set up plates with Cyrillic inscriptions, which is in accordance with the law, the Constitutional Law on National Minorities. It is in accordance with the law that can be changed, Milanovic suggested, but he does not want to propose, and you can change it too, or the Croatian Serb trade coalition can change it, but you will not change it. I'd change it. And it's according to the law. And there'll be those records elsewhere. And then someone puts that record out and then Serbian means to me that the news calls me that it's actually my fault that they're painting those records. Zekanovic Facebook, and.../incomprehensible/... jump. So, after I posted it on Facebook, someone went there for my moment and made a joke about it. Are you people normal? And you know what's most tragic or funny? What the inhabitants of this diocese near Knin, means between Knin and Sibenik or Drnish and Knin, have nothing to do with the Cyrillic. They don't know what it says. They liked it or not, their letter they used to serve is Latin, and then by putting up these plates at this delicate moment, it's only political provocation and nothing but provocation because she's the grandmother you're complaining about that her cow got away with not knowing a single letter of Cyrillic. But it's important that Milorad is pleased, that you fellow Shimpraga are satisfied and that there are Cyrillic plates, regardless of what the grandmother and did in the diocese, they don't know. They don't know that letter. And why are you doing this? And finally, all that energy you invest to educate the Serbian population in that part of Croatia, spend a little on reciprocity or some Croats in Serbia have at least a fraction of these rights they have in Croatia, and they know Latin Very good. [[Intruder: Time, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u43124	Mr. Domagoj Hajdukovic will be the position of the SDP Representatives' Club. Free stand as I see it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u43125	Of course, thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues would like to use this attitude to warn again about the bad situation in the woodworking industry in Croatia. Recently, I spoke to the public together with my colleague Nikolic about this particular problem, which the minister reacted to with a political pamphlet. The political pamphlet, which first deals with my knowledge of agriculture, implies I don't know anything about it. My parents have land, and I'm afraid I know what it means to dig corn, I know what it means to plow, I know what it means to dig, and I know what it means to have blisters from agricultural works. But I'm not going down to the minister's level, I'm not going to talk, and I could say that I'm bad from this pay phone that I know, unlike her, what a distraction looks like. I won't do it and I won't use time to look back at her professional qualifications to be a minister. The only thing the minister actually knows is to quote statistics, numbers and tell fairy tales because if you didn't know our agricultural production was growing, it's growing unsustainably, but ask farmers if they live better, if they sell more, do they? Then you'll hear another story from the Minister of Agriculture. But here she likes numbers, so I'll stick to numbers. Here's a graph that shows the ratio of the production of furniture that you see constantly falling, this is the new management of Croatian forests and exports of logs that are constantly growing, we export raw materials, not exporting the final product. Here's a graph showing you the relationship between exporting troops and the final product, look how it falls, you won't believe Croatian forests from the new administration. So let's read what the profession says about when I'm not an expert and I don't know anything about agriculture, so here's a quote. The sector, thought of wood processing in the period from 2018 to 2020, was affected by a wave of negative trends caused by the most non-compliance with the wood processing strategy and by the binding criterion of the key document, etc. letters of understanding signed between the HGK and the Croatian Forests of 2017, which regulates the way and criteria for accession in the implementation of the public tender for logs. So in record years of economic growth, there were clear negative trends, especially in the final production of furniture. Or another article, I quote: "The policy of clientelism of the Croatian Forests in the area of the multi-annual quotas of troops that supported all key institutions, starting with the RES and HGK, has led and encouraged a number of negative trends in which the most sensitive drop in final production is, in particular, furniture, a drop of more than 25%, and the growth of primary processing and export of raw material hulls by 50% in the observed period 2020. As well as in the domain of public procurement, the key aspect of the cooperation of Croatian forests and contracted customers of raw materials are not respected guidelines for the processing of countries, the stability of the price of wood raw materials, and even more violates the obligation of the Croatian forests to distribute raw materials by looking at rural development and the new value achieved. Clienttelism has led to an absurdity that the recordr and the first on the scale of a company that has no production capacity and employees at all." Here's the Minister of Agriculture who owns the woodworking industry, which tells the professional public about these fairy tales that you're talking about. Minister Vukkovic, I am not a spokesman for any company as you impute it, I am a spokesman for all those small producers who miraculously exist on our market and who are afraid to talk about this problem. And why are they afraid? Because they do not have a party card and because they are afraid, as Croatian forests are monopolist, they will be excluded from all possible further distributions or contracts of goods at a preferential price. So Minister, don't lie, and I'll use what you say. Go away, protect our producers, do something, and don't tell fairy tales, don't lie, and don't cheat because you only go to Slavonia and you'll be able to appreciate what the loss of 200 jobs means to that and to such a devastated end.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u43126	Thank you. Mr Ivan Radic will be the position of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u43217	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. We Slavons and Baranians are proud people, we come from a region that has created everything with its own hands and that has always worked, fed and produced. We don't like crying over us and complaining. There is a reason why Slavonia and Baranja chose HDZ in Osijek-Baranja County just in the last elections. Because we HDZ MPs from the 4th Election Unit in Osijek-Baranja County do not come to Zagreb to cry but to fight, we do not come to this High House for regret and pat on the shoulder, but for the projects needed for further progress in our region. These projects have been many in recent years, and there will be more in the future. Their purpose is to raise the quality of life and facilitate business throughout a range of activities. If we want to demographically restore Slavonia and Baranja, and I believe that we all absolutely want to, we must fight for every man and raise the standard of living to the level that our East of Croatia deserves. And this is not without the state's capital investment and it is not without investment from EU funds, and all actors should be taken into account politically from our end. At least in this we should be united in supporting large projects that modernise our Slavonia and Baranja and create assumptions for sustainable growth and development. One of the projects I would like to discuss today was the Regional Fruit and Vegetable Distribution Centre, which is a strategic project of Osijek-Baranja County and represents an investment of more than 100 million kuna in the Eco industrial zone of Nemetin in Osijek. On March 10th of this year, works to be completed within 18 months have begun. The project is funded by Osijek-Baranja County, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds. This part of our country has been missing for years the infrastructure for the accommodation of fruits and vegetables, which was a really big problem, especially if we have in mind the fact that much of the area is under permanent plantings. The project was discussed for 20 years, but as the mayor of Osijek-Baranja Ivan Anusic said and announced, it completely changes the way our fruit and vegetables producers function, work and quality of support. This centre will especially benefit small producers who have had problems with the storage of products, competition and plasma so that they could not sell their product, even unfortunately destroyed it. How impressive the project is is best discussed and its technical data. The total cooling capacity of the coolant is 2910 tonnes, distributed into 23 cooling chambers and divided into organic and conventional production. The total storage capacity of the refrigerator with a controlled and normal atmosphere is 3239 tonnes of fruit and vegetables and the total area of the entire building is over 8,000 m2. The lack of infrastructure of this type has contributed to many negative influences. Today we have about 4800 hectares of agricultural land under permanent crops, which is far less than ten years ago. This is also one of the consequences of the inability to store products, which is why manufacturers simply gave up their activities. The harvested fruit has only 24 hours to come into the freezer and this is about a minimum that we have to satisfy if we want the final product to be quality enough. The regional fruit and vegetable distribution centre will allow producers to be equal in the market for shopping centres that market almost 80% of the fruit in this area. The project I'm talking about is not just a simple infrastructure project but the right way to improve the quality of life of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema population, but also wider surroundings. This is a project that was necessary, a project of the future and a project that has an impact on what is most important And that's the quality of life for all of us. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u43218	Thank you very much. And now it's Mr. Miro Bulj's turn to present the position of the Representatives' Club of Independent Lists Bridge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u43322	After this, my colleagues from Slavonia came to me, 50 years ago from Croatian Spring, when the Croatian people were led by my Sinjani, Mike Tripal, Mark Velica and others, the other day and Prof. Antom Zupić, who was the city council the other day Sinja would vote up, I am proud and would also propose to Mark Vesenica in Sinj, in those times and teachers and students rise against centralization. And I'm listening to my young colleague talk about Slavonia, the proud Slavonia. I, as a Sinjan who has given numerous people, prominently, will repeat, Mark Happy, Mr. Tripal, and here comes the current president from Sinj. And 50 years since then, 30 years since the Homeland War, by coincidence in 2021, I'm going to talk about my Son. About your Sinj, about the Chetino end, about the knight's end that you all dedicate to the days of the Alks and the Lady for which we are recognizable. But Sinj and the Cetina region are the most perspective area in the Republic of Croatia because it is located near the Split swimming pool. But politics in '71. And those times were much better towards that end, unfortunately, I must say, than today. Dana, in free Croatia, many Sinjans and Cetinjans dared to go to war throughout Croatia, not only in Sinj and Dalmatia but in Lika led the battles of difficult, difficult battles, Ivica Poljak Sokol led the fairs commander and in many other parts. But when we talk about projects today, that the most perspective area of Sinj is the Cetin region, as I said, the frozen part of Split, 30 km and its infrastructure where there should be a lot more people living than moving out. Here are a few projects, a fast road has been promised for years, a merger on the highway and approaching Sinj Split where Sinj would become the suburbs of Split because today in Split, few who can buy an apartment because there is too much price of squares and in Sin they can live young, they can develop, this fair city where these governments have shut down and the municipal court, we need to know that it is the center of the Dalmatian Zagor where it is immediately nearby and only Livno, bordering with Vrlika, the Cetina area, with Knin, means in the heart of Zagor, forgotten project. And you won't go 2021 silence, this time we'll fight much louder for a fast road that is important to life than that of Ante Sanader, vice president of the Parliament, Alpha and Omega Dalmatia building a fast road to their gardeners in Vukevica. In the non-existent tunnel 40 million kn, provided for in the plan and programme of Croatian roads. Sinjsko polje, not even a metre is irrigated, instead of developing agriculture, agricultural goods, which on the market not only of Split, is near Makarska itself, the Sibenik County itself, where the area can be developed. The river Cetina provides 40% of the hydropower of the Republic of Croatia. All we have are praises, promises always the same. Four years ago in Split, 2 billion euros for the Dalmatian Zagora were promised at a government meeting. Do you know how far it's been filled? Nothing. The people of Sinj and Cetina region in 2021, 50 years from the Croatian Spring and 30 years from the Homeland War, will not be silent. In 2021, there will be years of struggle. No struggle to call for a revolution, but to the resistance that will take place in these local elections I will invite the people, to finally revive Sinj, the Cetinian end and my Zagora.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u43323	There are no more applications to take a stand, we continue the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u43994	Good morning, honourable MPs. We're going back to work. Today's first item on the agenda: Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 109 The Proposer is the Government on the basis of Article 1(1)(b) of the Treaty. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia in relation to Art. 172. 190. The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. I would now like to ask the proposer's representative to give an additional explanation of the law, with us is the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development Natasha Mikush Zigman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u43995	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS. Appreciable MPs, esteemed MPs. Your second reading is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. The State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures is an independent and independent state body responsible for resolving complaints in public procurement procedures, in concession procedures and selecting partners in public-private partnership projects. The current law on the State Commission through 23 legal articles regulates the question of the status of members of the State Commission, then the procedure of appointment and resolution, the duration of the mandate and the internal organisation, but some legal gaps in practice led to certain doubts and different interpretations of the same provisions. Legal gaps exist in relation to the appointment and resolution of members of the Commission, or the termination of their mandate, more specifically, and then their working-law status and the rights of members of the state commission after their term of office has expired, and we have therefore assessed that it is necessary to further regulate these issues. The lack of regulation of the working-law status of members of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures has also been recognised in the framework of the Action Plan for the Anti-Corruption Strategy and, therefore, the amendment and addition of the law on the State Commission has also entered into the proposal for an Action Plan for the Prevention of Corruption for 2019 and 2020. and the implementation or adoption of this law shall also implement the measures set out in that action plan. How do we propose to address these issues through the final proposal? The regulation of labour law is achieved in a way that complies with the rights and obligations of members, which respects the fact that the members of the Commission and the President of the Commission are bound by the application of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest and, within the meaning of that law, are considered officials and are not listed and are not subject to the rules of the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials. This proposal regulates fundamental rights, such as the right to vacation, the right to sick leave, the cost of transport from work and work, the fees for official travel and travel expenses related to the conduct of duties. The other rights of members of the state commission in respect of the conduct of duties such as the right to pay after the termination of the term of office shall also be prescribed, so that after the termination of the duties and the right to choose between the exercise of the right to pay after the termination of office or the right to return to work. Provisions shall also be laid down when the term of office of the members of the State Commission ceases by law, so that the time limit on which the member is appointed, by death, on the date of discharge, or on the date of the resolution decision. As a way of selecting candidates for members of the state commission, a public call shall be prescribed in relation to the current legislative proposal and circumstances shall also be prescribed where the Government of the Republic of Croatia may propose the appointment of the DCOM member's term of office in the event that that member is on long-term leave, maternity or parental leave or for any other justifiable reason is long-term absent. Following a debate on the proposal of this law on HS working bodies as well as discussions at the 6th session of HS in February of this year, and in accordance with the conclusion of the HS, the applicant entered nomotechnical amendments to the expressions of certain provisions and was also accepted from the debate that the appointment of the performer of the member's duties under Article. 6th century 2nd of this final proposal, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to HS. So this is essentially the essence of the legal changes and the difference between the first and second readings. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u43996	I thank the secretary of state. Let's start with the replicas. First up, dear fellow Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u43997	Thank you very much. Public procurement i.e. These technical changes for the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement is a very important transparency in the Republic of Croatia is essentially the biggest problem of public procurement which in the cartel case from the smallest public procurement of local to European projects have essentially destroyed competition and competitiveness, which means that today we have a huge problem with public procurement and therefore we have a problem not withdrawing funds from the EU. So public procurement worked the way it worked in the club in Slovenia 9 where they agreed that they were representatives of the judiciary, the executive authorities, ministers who agreed on the business of Janafa, Krš-Padjene, so they set up public procurement. That's why we have to speak out loud here that we have to stop cartel public procurement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u43998	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u43999	Thank you, thank you very much, Mr. Bulj. I would like to stress that these amendments and additions deal with the status issues of the members of the committee, or the rights and obligations that members have under certain regulations. And as for the example you mentioned, there are therefore criminal and criminal provisions in the public procurement law itself in the event that such occurrences can then be prosecuted by the perpetrators.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44000	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State. I am looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the MOST Club on public procurement and amending this law where the State Commission for Public Procurement Control and must play an important and important role in regulating the equality of public procurement and to stop the destruction of competition. As I said, the cartel way of assigning jobs through fictitious some kind of public procurement where jobs were being set up was from the level of local self-government where lamps and lamps were changing to large public procurements that simply led from European funds to the level that competition had failed. I mentioned Club 9 in Slovenia. For what? Because of the way public procurement worked, who is closer to the head of Janaf, the head of HEP, the head of a local company, led to the failure of numerous public procurements. that funds from the EU such as "Agglomeration Sinj" which has been questioned for poor work, both local water, local self-government, Croatian waters, have been brought under investigation such significant projects that are important not only for local self-government but as a strategic project of the Republic of Croatia. It is time, not only to change it on paper, these changes are going towards being more transparent and public and appointing and public procurement process, but it is time to finally end the cartel public procurement that has been organised in various different clubs not only in Slovenia but also at lower levels. Is that what caused it? The going of our people to the highest quality in third countries, the collapse of companies that are far more quality than those that get jobs, and in this way we can only prevent people from being drained.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44001	Thank you. The apartment is approved. Is anyone else picking up? Comrade Tušek, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44002	I thank my colleagues and colleagues. Here I would also, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, ask for a break so that we could all consult again on the importance of the Amendments and Supplements Act on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures before us, on all the importance and quality of the newspapers that apply in this law in order to organise the work of the State Commission for the Procedure, the control of the procurement process as transparently as possible. We believe that this bill is more than necessary, and we believe that it is equalising not only in mandatory but also in the rights of people who are in the public procurement process committee, but also in considering all other arguments issued on different labour bodies, first of all, that we are aware of the importance of the discussion which was held at the meeting of the Committee on the Economy of HS, which was discussed in general and discussed the rights of state officials, and in the context and the rights which will be exercised by members of the public procurement committee, the sustainability of such a model that we have at present and the fact that we all must seriously consider together how we view the rights of state officials in the context of the fact that the public and the same officials condemns in a way that they should not have certain rights according to public perception, and on the other hand, we know that these same officials are, in many ways, limited in terms, in terms of the exercise of their business and legal powers following their duties. We believe that this law is more than necessary and we believe that when we are discussing it we really need to discuss arguments, arguments of the profession, rather than go into the context of cheap politics for which there is no need in the context of the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44003	Okay, and that break is, of course, approved. Is anyone else picking up? No, I don't. Then we move on at 9:00 and 55 minutes. It's 9:44 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:58 AM]] Dear colleague Danica Baricevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44005	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, how are we going to prevent a possible conflict of interest between the DCOM member and the entity, for example, private or public with which member has an agreement to return to work?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44006	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44007	Honorable MPs, thank you very much. Public procurement laws, Art. In 433, it is already prescribed that a member of the State Commission must be excluded from working in such a specific case, when it is in a business relationship with the party in the proceedings and the future State Commission is also acting under the General Administrative Procedure Act applicable in the appeal proceedings, and that the law regulates that an official, when deciding on the administrative matter with which he is connected, is to be excluded from the procedure, so that two other laws have already been dealt with.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44008	Comrade Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44009	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I would like to ask you to explain a little bit. 7 c paragraph 6 as the matter works in practice, namely, on return to work after the end of the term of office, whether in the public or state sector, namely that after the term of office has expired, an application should be issued within 15 days to return to work, within 45 days a solution shall be issued, at which time a full 60-day salary may be received. However, according to this paragraph 6, if the employer has not made a decision on a return or a member, a senior member of the State Commission does not want to accept that decision, might there be some possibility of abuse? Why would I ask that? Because I was watching, wages are like 12,500 to 14600 kn as members of the State Commission and now you have to get back to work where the salary is, I don't know, 10,000 kuna. Then can the situation happen, I don't want to go back so that it's, like, smudged in some way? Is that what you witnessed in practice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44010	Thank you very much. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44011	Thank you very much for asking. So I think the law has clearly regulated enough the possibility of a member of the commission to return or return to the job from which he came, so if it was a permanent job and thus has a contract or a solution to the schedule or to use the possibility of compensation over a period of 6 plus 6 months. So this is written analogous to the rights of state officials, so from that I would conclude that there is actually no possibility of abuse as it is, as it does not exist in other regulations. I don't see that possibility, do I?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44012	Comrade Begonj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44013	Thank you, Mr. President. Respected State Secretarys, in addition to harmonising with the EU acquis, this proposal amends and complements the Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, also addresses issues, status issues, the material rights of members of the Commission during their term of office, but also at the end of their term of office, their mandate within the Commission. Given the importance of this body, on the one hand, as well as the necessary expertise of the members of the commission, I ask you once again to respond to the current state of their rights, which wants to be regulated by this law because the members of the commission are neither state officials nor judicial officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44014	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44015	Thank you very much for your question. Yes, you have stated exactly, so they are not state officials, they can't be because of a directive on legal protection that stipulates that persons cannot be politically appointed as state officials, and by this bill we actually wanted to correct certain ambiguities that arise, i.e. the legal void that arises in practice, which is that the members of the Commission have obligations under the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest and consequently the inability to work in certain institutions or legal entities and are not protected in this sense by clause 6+6, and then it is one of the issues which these legal amendments address. In addition, other material rights such as the right to stay, the right to vacation and other... [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44016	Comrade Habib, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44017	Thank you very much. Here you will get a chance to actually continue all the answers to my question, because in fact, in some ways, what my colleague Begonja said continues, so if we read this article or the provisions of Article. The second and third final draft of the law, in fact, is given a certain impression that certain financial benefits are being given to DCOM members, that some new material rights are being acquired, and in fact there were actually speeches on individual committees, so in this direction, so please, if you can in fact explain whether this will have the same effect on the increase in the DCOM budget, or in order to remove this uncertainty? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44018	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44019	Thank you very much, Agent Habib. Material rights are only more precisely regulated and it does not in any way go beyond the material rights that other employees of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, which are civil servants, so they are not going anywhere through those rights given to them as civil servants. As far as the budget itself is concerned, the implementation of this law has provided funds or plans in the state budget, perhaps just to provide one interesting fact that, with the basis of the compensation for the initiation of the appeal procedure in the budget, 17 million kn was paid in 2019, which is 6.8 million kn more than the funds planned for the Commission's work. So there's a state budget in the plus.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44020	Comrade Pavić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44021	Dear Secretary, you have responded to your colleague on the subject we have been discussing recently since the beginning of the debate and your presentation, but I would ask you to explain a little bit to the other combination that may occur, and this is the committee member who participated in the procedure where he was a legal person who could be employed after his term of office has ceased in the State Commission. So the moment he was a member of the state commission, or before, he didn't work with that legal person, but afterwards he wants to get a job with that legal person, which in that case, is there any limit? I talked about it last time in my debate, and I can see that nothing's changed, so if you don't mind explaining it a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44022	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44023	Thank you very much. So you refer to a situation where a member of the commission did not work in a private legal entity prior to his term of office in the state commission. So they apply as I said provisions on the prevention of conflicts of interest in case he decided on issues from that legal entity then he could not carry out management tasks in that legal entity in the period in which it is prescribed by the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest or if it is decided he can use this by saying the safeguard clause of remuneration within a total period of 12 months if he is not previously employed in a public or private entity.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44024	Now it's time for my colleague, Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44025	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS. Dear Secretary of State. Therefore, the whole law or all of the amendments to the law are based on the reasons for the state officials who have according to the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in certain matters, and this is not regulated here. Nor does it seem to you that it would be incomparably better if we had made an amendment and a supplement or a new Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest that we would define this because, in some parts of the same way, we would be working on another law that we have today. So, you went into the law to regulate what was a problem, and what should seem to me to be regulated by the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, and then you wouldn't have a problem, you wouldn't change the laws that you're embezzling but that would be there, so I'm curious somehow about your thinking and your attitude. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44026	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44027	Thank you very much. Appreciable MPs, this is certainly a relevant question whether to regulate the issue of preventing conflicts of interest, but we have approached amendments to this law because in practice situations have occurred that the person who worked as a member of the state commission at the end of his term could not carry out certain jobs or could not be employed, and in no way was she protected in terms of the labour market. Whether this question should be resolved more fully and differently, I think that, of course, it is always possible and should be discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44028	Comrade Petyr, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44029	Thank you very much, President HS. Dear Secretary of State. The State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures has nine members, the status of those members should be well regulated and you yourself have said that this law actually fills legal gaps in order to make it clear to everyone, given the important work that the commission is doing, it seems to have full hands of work, when you take a look at their site only. So I'm wondering if you have any information on how many cases the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures has handled so far and how many percent of these complaints have been filed is justified? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44030	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44031	Thank you, counsel Petyr, for asking. Here's when we look at the number of complaint cases handled by the commission, they can present data for the past year. Member States shall ensure that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, According to the report on the work of DCOM, 1194 complaints were received, the report was not completed in 2020, but we have preliminary data 1089 complaints, and in 2021, so until today the date of 300-day complaints covering both public procurement and concession proceedings. This all goes hand in hand with the high number of complaint cases handled by the commission and in support of the fact that these are people who can do the job in a good way with their professional competences. On average, between 47 and 52, 53% of complaints are adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44032	Now it's my colleague Bacic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44033	Thank you, Mr. President. Respected secretary of state. I believe that the correct information is that the total value at the annual level of public procurement in Croatia is around 43 billion kuna, given the number you mentioned earlier speaks about the importance and importance of the Commission's work. Therefore, this law contributes to their transparency or independence in work. But what interests me, do you have any information as to how long the appeal procedure at the level of the state commission is on average? It is often very important projects at both national and regional level, given that many of these projects are related to EU funds I am interested in how much it takes because of the urgency of the delivery of services and goods procedures? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44034	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44035	Thank you very much for asking, Commissioner Bacic. As you pointed out yourself is an exceptional volume, the financial volume of the subject matter on which the Commission decides and which is carried out through the procurement procedures. The legal deadline for solving the case is 30 days, the state commission decides below that deadline, so the average is if I'm not mistaken for 27 days for solving cases from the moment the documentation is completed. And in cases related to the withdrawal of EU funds, they are given priority in procedures and are being resolved within even shorter deadlines, precisely for the purpose of ensuring that European funds are withdrawn as quickly as possible. We are aware of the facts, of course, that, or we would all like it to be even faster, but legal protection is something that is prescribed by the directive as the right of anyone who participates in the appeal procedure and this law cannot be challenged.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44036	And the last replica of my colleague Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44037	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS. Madam Secretary of State. So tell me are the agreed settlements in cartel and secret cartels, tell me why other infringements of the Competition Protection Regulation are not also intended for settlements, and why are reductions, reduction of fines 10 to 20%, and not as in the draft law 20% to 30%?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44038	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44039	Thank you very much for asking. The issue of cartels or prohibited agreements on the market will also be discussed in the next law, and these percentages mentioned in the final draft of the law have been established in accordance with the practices of other countries that have little more experience in resolving such prohibited agreements on the market and in accordance with the practice of the European Commission which decides on the infringement of the basic Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, hence, there is an analoguely determined percentage of the exemption from penalties.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44040	Thanks to the secretary of state, you can go back to your seat. We will now continue to work, only before that announcement for tomorrow. So, we're going to start at half past ten with the amendment debates, the obvious to the amendments, we already have 10 for yesterday's law, we're going to see today through the day if there's going to be more. After that, we go according to the agenda and there will be a vote at 12 o'clock. That's the plan for tomorrow. Would the representatives of the board like to take their word now? No, I don't. Then I open the debate, the first is the Club of Representatives of the Most and esteemed colleague Marin Miletic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44041	President-in-Office HS Mr. Jandrokovic, Mr. Bukarica, respected state secretaries with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. In my first reading, I made some suggestions, remarks to the bill as it was in the first reading, and I am not going to talk and repeat them here again. One of my remarks was adopted by the government and the ministry, so officials who will eventually replace members of the state commission will still not be elected by the government but by the HS here. However, in accepting my remarks and suggestions, the government sacrificed a public call probably perceiving it as an unnecessary waste of time. However, I agree with such but also with some other solutions to this final proposal. That is why I have submitted two amendments to this bill, which I believe can be accepted and will at least improve the legal text a little. Both my amendments actually trouble one and the same subject, which is how members of the state commission are elected to control public procurement procedures and their potential deputies, so-called. The official of duty. If you look at my amendments, you will see that their aim is to increase the transparency of the election of members of the state commission, and the objective is to amend and to preserve and strengthen the integrity of all bodies participating in the selection process of members of the state commission, and to respect the fundamental constitutional and democratic right that all in Croatia must have access to public services and public duties under equal conditions. First of all, we should be aware that the current Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures is governed by an entirely non-transparent procedure for the appointment of members of the State Commission. Under the applicable law of the government without a public call or a public tender for informal routes and methods, it takes candidates for members of the state commission, I would express myself picturesquely, from hats. I don't know what it looks like in practice, maybe the prime minister or some minister picks up a phone phone and calls someone on the principle of "halo bing, would he be a member of the state commission," and then the government sends us here to HS their short résumés so that parliamentary deputies can decide on the selection of members. Of course, I've been a little harassed by this situation, but what is the principle of the names and last names of all the members of the state commission that have come before the government in the first place? On what principle have the names and names of all the members of the state commission so far come before the prime minister in the first place? This final proposal therefore introduces the procedure for running the Institute of Public Call, so not a public tender but a public invitation. How in recent days, through the fire between the government and the president of the Republic, we could learn there are important differences between a public tender and a public call, particularly in the rights of candidates who apply to them both at the level of transparency and legal protection, which is where and where stronger in public competitions. But since the appointment of members of the state commission so far, we have had the full will of the government over the candidate's proposal and the introduction of a public call is some small step forward, but far from the real formalization of this job and the duty. In that sense, I submitted an amendment to Art. 4. a final proposal where at least the method of publication of a public call and its duration is regulated as the minimum conditions of legality and transparency of a public call. I think it's some minimum rule about a public call that we should prescribe and regulate by law. My second amendment to Art. 6. concerning those exceptional situations where the acting member of the State Commission should be temporarily appointed, either because a member has been duly prevented from acting or has suspended his term of office for a longer time. Namely, the final bill as written will lead to three different procedures, three different appointment arrangements for members of the commission. I therefore propose an amendment that would simplify all of this and introduce a single appointment regime for the members of the Commission in all cases. I don't think we should name it, that we shouldn't sacrifice the name of the time saving the transparency of conduct. The State Commission shall not be a body which would be impossible to operate if the situation were to occur if one or two members were to be missing for a short period of time until the full procedure for the appointment of new members or performers was implemented. I therefore propose to the representatives of the Government to consider and accept the proposed amendments just as they have considered and accepted my observations from the first reading. The amendments are quite detailed and reasoned, so I invite my colleagues and fellow MPs to consider them. In addition to everything mentioned in the first reading, I objected that this law should have been part of the package, with a new law on preventing conflicts of interest. Namely, the members of the State Commission, after their term of office has ended, and I think this is very important to point out and say loudly, to be heard, can be very easily found in a potential and real conflict of interest by doing private affairs which, again, are closely linked to the work they were doing previously in the State Commission. I think there's a possibility of conflict of interest, but for corruption too, very large, and the law should prevent them from being removed by law. It says in one sacred book, stay away from sinful occasions, so here we can use the laws to help, prevent. Any sinful occasions, huh? In any case, Club Mosta will take its final position on this final bill only after we see how the government will respond to the amendments I have submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44042	We are going to another debate, a Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and a respected colleague of Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44043	President-in-Office of HS, respected by the promoter, colleagues and colleagues. We're talking about public procurement, and to be more plastic, here, I'm going to read one public procurement from an electronic public procurement messenger, which is not fictional, it's real, and it's not the only one that's in an electronic ad. So you look for a personal car, it doesn't matter who gets it, you look for who, how, next specifications, 1.6, TGDI, engine of 1591 cm3, maximum power of 130 kW and 177 horsepower, torque of 5500 turns per minute, maximum torque of 4.5 thousand turns per minute. Apparently, CO2 emissions 170 to 175 g/km, driving on out-of-town consumption 6.8, driving in the neighborhoods 8.5 to 9.1, combined 7.4 to 7.6. Now, this is interesting, mass of empty vehicle 1637 kg, maximum mass of vehicle 2200 kg, dimensions 4485 mm, width 1855 mm, height 1645 mm, inter-axial distance 2670 mm. Do I need to read any more? So this is from an electronic public procurement advert. So someone who is a public procurement official dared to make public procurement like this, or to adjust the purchase absolutely from letter to letter, from word to word to word to millimeter to exactly one car manufacturer. So in a millimeter is defined width, length, in gram mass of car. And then we're talking about fair public procurement? And now I'm wondering, who's crazy here? Is the system wrong or are we the ones who pass the law, are we normal when such competitions that are completely legal can be placed? And in Croatia there is only one distributor of these cars, not 5 but 1, and maybe this competition was opened by the Government, so they might buy 100 cars of the same supplier and it's all legal because only one supplier can satisfy these propositions. Only one. Now that we're talking about public procurement, we've seen here that, clearly, it's been set up. And on the other hand, people who do public procurement, they're in so much fear of that public procurement, I personally took part in public procurement processes, so it's all very serious, envelopes open, close, sign 5 times, 100 seals, don't let God make a mistake, and then it's the easiest thing to do when you're a little insecure so someone doesn't call you, you know what you do? You cancel out the contest and then we have a situation to get some public procurement for three and four years. Three, four years. And sometimes this is done by European money and because of the fear of a fault of control, normally, man is afraid of everything today and we simply don't conduct public procurement, we don't take, we don't consume that money from the EU. And on the other hand, they pass public procurement like this because they're perfectly legal and fine. And there's no problem. When we talk about the pharmaceutical industry, or our health system, we have a big problem here, I'm going to be specific, for example. local, here's a Sibenik hospital, for example, in my Sibenik, arrangements to get a drug at a price I don't know, 5 kn some medicine. Tomorrow with some supplier, some pharmaceutical company, tomorrow the state gets the same medicine for four kunas. Is this local hospital competition or not allowed to be broken down? Or on the contrary, the state buys 5 kn and the Sibenik Hospital buys 4 kunas. Is the state allowed to terminate the competition? So these are huge problems that no one's talking about, these are just undefined things, and the only thing that matters is that everything is sealed, signed, that when someone gets in control, to say everything is okay, everything is fine, there's no problem and nothing really is wrong. Nothing good because the competitions are de facto staged. And finally, another big problem in the public procurement process itself, and these are these famous complaints. Anyone who competed, I will repeat, anyone who competed in the procurement process, can complain for an unfounded reason. And that delays the process or decision for months and months. I specifically now know a few cases where some state tenders were stopped because someone was simply persistent and until he got another job on the side, he complained, complained, complained, blocked, blocked, blocked. And now finally that cheapest price. Personally, I was a witness when everything was cut off, chosen by an bidder who had the lowest price, three times lower than the one who was competitive, three times lower, and eventually the price due to the maintenance costs, because of the VT works, for 101 reasons was 20% higher than this original. And it's all legal. Everything is absolutely legal. So we have one system that actually doesn't work. We need to get order into this system. Let's start with some of the funniest things that one average citizen isn't as funny as getting a car. Someone can't set cars within a millimeter and ask for a cheap public procurement, for the purchase of a personal car.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44044	We are now going to the third debate, the House Movement Representatives Club, dear colleague Daniel Spajic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44045	The Honorable Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected secretary of state with a co-worker. What links only to the first sight of the courteous European Prime Minister Plenkovic to a team like Lukashenko and the heir to Fidel Castro? It links the report in the corruption index that is regularly issued by Transparency and whose latest edition shows that Croatia, Belarus and Cuba share 63rd place. Not even the evaluation of other relevant international institutions such as the World Economic Forum has a better estimate of the current situation in Croatia. What is particularly worrying is the fact that the forecasts for these reports for the future are not positive, so let's say by the government's orientation of the future only 105th place in the world. This is what the citizens of the Republic of Croatia agree with, among them, 73% believe that we are going in the wrong direction, however, the government is ignoring all these facts. So it reminds me of a joke about a man who was driving down the highway in the wrong direction heard on a radio notice for drivers to watch out for a dangerous driver who was driving in the wrong direction, he said he wasn't driving just one, all driving in the wrong direction. The best example of this complete blindness from our reality is a relationship to the judiciary. What is the situation in our judiciary, we all know, and the relevant research shows that it is only 140th in the world for efficiency. However, in a recent presentation of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, the government without strain and shame says it is of great importance to continue to develop an impartial and effective judiciary. It also argues that their aim is to raise the state's effectiveness in implementing reforms, although all their reforms failed mostly before they were even launched. That the government completely ignores the signs that we need a strong turn and not further development in the current direction, shows a relationship to public procurement that has an increasingly powerful impact on the Croatian economy. The share in public procurement increased from 13% to 16.5% between 2017 and 2019. But criticism that the government is too much of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan is investing in the private sector, the government says public investment through public procurement will be spilled into the private sector anyway. As far as the unfavourable structure of the economy is concerned, and when so much is accounted for in the division of EU funds, the serious government would approach the fundamental changes in the system because it is one of the most corrupt countries in the EU and beyond, it would not be possible to have a regulated public procurement system. We have repeatedly warned about the digitization of healthcare where hundreds of millions of kunas waited for public procurement to be launched. Then the job of monitoring the digitisation of health care was given to no less or more of the former health minister Sanader who was unable to do the job. Also, the former vice-president of the government in charge of the economy was not able to make a development strategy, but was enlightened after leaving the government, so she did so as a World Bank consultant, but it cost the government an additional EUR 5 million. Today, this lady consultant is rewarded with the post of President of the Podravka administration. After such examples of public procurement, it is not surprising that citizens are increasingly losing confidence in institutions, but also in optimism about the future development of the country of Croatia. Except that one of the key drivers of corruption shows that current public procurement is ineffective and unreliable. One example we could see a few days ago. For the 12th time, an extremely important competition for the reconstruction of the railway line towards Rijeka fell because Serbia's 5,000 kuna company has filed a 2 billion kuna job appeal. In short, we in the Homeland Movement do not consider such legal changes an anti-corruption instrument as stated in the proposal. Instead of the body that passively processes complaints about public procurement procedures, Croatia needs an expert body that will act proactively. To begin to carry out a detailed and impartial analysis of the current problems in the implementation of the Public Procurement Act, and to take concrete measures to really curb corruption and maximise the impact of public procurement on overall economic development. These alibi institutions, which are mostly their own purpose, Croatian taxpayers have too much on their backs anyway. When I hear the word public procurement, I have participated many times in these processes, I immediately think of nepotism, corruption, political trade. Yesterday we had the current watch and in the evening, turn on the diary and see which bickering, but there are no questions Mr. Škoro asked for Mrs. Đuric from the SDSS, the lady who signed 1700 harmful solutions for the Republic of Croatia. It'll all be paid by taxpayers. It'll all be paid by taxpayers. There's no word on the diary yesterday. It's a political trade. Until we change things like this, we make these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44046	We will now go to the fourth debate of the HDZ Representatives Club and esteemed colleague Zarko Tušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44047	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, the value of public procurement in Croatia is estimated as already mentioned today at around 40 billion kuna per year. The State Commission for the Control of the Public Procurement Procedure decides on complaints worth hundreds of millions of EUR and it is in some way to secure the first line of defence against abuse in the procurement procedures. And also through the publication of its decisions, maintain a high level of professional legal certainty for all participants in the procurement process. All of this also entails the enormous professional and human responsibility of DCOM members who are the bonds which are bound by the application of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest and are considered to be officials within the meaning of this law, and which do not apply to them the rules of the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials. The lack of regulation of their status is also recognised in the Action Plan for the Anti-Corruption Strategy as a corrupt risk, and that is why today this law is ahead of us. As we had the opportunity to hear from the secretary of state, this bill to the full legal void sort of fills legal gaps, and it is important that the members of the DCOM Commission and in rights are not only equal to government officials. In addition to the material rights not to list them now, provisions are also introduced to ensure the continuity of the work of the body, the start and completion of the mandate are precisely determined, provisions concerning the termination of the term of office by force of the laws that have not been covered so far are added, and a public call is proposed as a way of selecting candidates to be proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Since DCOM members are treated as officials at the end of the term of office for a year, they have no right to work on management jobs or in the public or private sector. And to avoid conflicts of interest, since it is realisticly highly likely that, given the duration of the term of office of 5 years, they have decided on complaints in the bodies they potentially want to hire. For this very reason, this option is introduced which other government officials also have, in principle, 6 + 6 months of income rights. About this Institute 6 + 6 on the parent board of the economy, a very dynamic and fierce debate was launched not only in the context of this proposal but generally on all those covered by the same proposal. In view of the expertise of people who perform certain tasks in the positions of officials and the possibility of contributing them to certain jobs and processes at the end of the mandate, if they can be immediately included in certain positions, it is important to see if such a concept as we now have is really sustainable and whether it in any way limits the fluctuation of quality and serious qualified people who have been at a lower level, whether they are already in the private sector, and then in the public sector, and whether we should all discuss together that such a model is sustainable or simply not sustainable. Perhaps even to think about the fact that possibly this institute 6 + 6 would in some way be shortened or that we would all put forward together a different legal framework for treating state officials who, because of their situation, cannot act on the labour market in the way that their qualifications allow them, and on the other hand, I would say this to some kind of public mockery for which they really did not deserve, because that is because they are legally impossible to realize themselves in a professional sense after they step down from the position of state officials. We discussed it extensively on the parent board of the economy, we looked in a comparative sense and examples of some other countries such as Austria, such as Germany, which in some ways have a different model and which in some ways combine the public sector relationship and the private sector relationship. Some EU members actually have an obligation to transfer people from the public sector to the private sector, from private to the public in one part of their mandate, especially for those in the public sector, so that these connections are more tied up than possible, and not in any way restricting and restricting the approach that we have in some way within the framework of a perception that we are struggling with some kind of corruption in the public sector that perhaps there is no way that we are trying to treat it in any way. We believe that in this sense it could be debated in a different way in the time that is ahead of us, but this is the law at this point what technically solves, which is the status of DCOM within what it is, and we need to support it and the club of HDZ representatives will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44048	Let's move on with the debate, five clubs are SDP's representatives, respected counterpart Zeljko Pavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44049	Your Honor, the Honorable secretary with the co-worker. The Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures is ahead of us, which does not differ much from the proposals we had in front of us in the first reading, but I am still pleased to conclude that the Proposer has accepted some of our proposals that we made during the debate in the first reading. I mean, first of all, Art. The 6th century of the Law, which criticised us several MPs in their discussions, refers to the appointment of members of the Commission. According to the draft law, these members would be proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, however, in the final draft of the law, it states that in the event of a legitimate obstacle in the conduct of a member of the state commission for more than three months, such as long-term stay or maternity or parental leave, the Government of the Republic of Croatia may propose to the HS the appointment of a member's term of office until the member's return to office, and as far as 12 months from now, with the possibility of another appointment, which means that the clause which was within the law to determine it was actually transferred to the Parliament as already proposed. Namely, since we are here to appoint members of the Parliament, it is fine to appoint replacements. Later on, I will try to explain some things a little bit, there was a question from fellow Miletic from where those members would come from the government, I think the solution is simple, you had a public call and that public call could have left you with 100 people and you still have one of those nine members you chose left with 91 left. So if there's any way I don't know how it works with you in the ministry, if there's any other 91 you have some order of business that I can work on later, that's how we at least worked at our company. All right. It is good that the start and termination of the term of office of a member of the state commission that has so far not been specified in the law has been specified and we welcome this. Most MPs also agreed in their discussions that it is necessary to regulate the rights and obligations of members of the state commission and, in particular, respecting the fact that members of the State Commission are bound by the application of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest and are considered officials within the meaning of this law, although they do not apply the rules of the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials, so I do not consider it necessary to comment on the articles of the law relating to this issue. In view of the fact that corruption is often mentioned in the Assembly, when and when there is a reasonable doubt and when there are no indications and when there are no indications, I believe it would be good to define in the law when and under what conditions a member of the state commission to whom the mandate has expired, and before his duties he was not a state official can be employed by an employer who was a party in the process during the conduct of the duties of a member of the state commission. In one part we have already received an answer from the State Secretary, I hope that we will be able to further define this because we believe that this should be resolved in a unique way in the Law on conflict of interest because it would be much more transparent and quality for all of us. During the debate on the proposal of the Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, many criticisms related to public procurement, related to irregularities during public procurement, related to potential and illegal actions, have been heard, however, I must note that according to the current provisions of the DCOM Act, it works exclusively on applications, although we have seen the documentation that has been attached to us as part of the bill's proposal, we actually see what the reports of that commission that are being referred to us should look like. So we see, in fact, that there is also the number of applications that came for the state commission and the number of applications solved by the commission. Unfortunately, the law is like this right now and that we should change this, we should certainly, because I think we should bring some additional regulations or maybe some additional articles into the law that would allow for further control of public procurement. According to the current provisions of the law, the state commission works exclusively on applications and normally that it is also clear that the bitterness of individual parliamentary representatives with the fact that they have pointed to irregularities in public procurement without having been resolved or prevented. We heard a colleague Zekanovic speak again today about public procurement, did not speak about the commission, and whether it was necessary to reach the commission at all is a big question since the commission would act if someone had reported it. If no one reported it, the commission won't react to that. However, we must be aware that the State Commission itself does not monitor the course of each procurement procedure and that if there are irregularities that occurred during the procurement process, and there are no other institutions which should be reported and which should respond to these reports. These institutions know who we are, perhaps later the State Secretary in the final presentation can help us a little bit with how to make it clear to all of us and to the public what and how to do and how to act if we know about irregularities, and we could not report it to the Commission for a variety of reasons. On the other hand, I have already proposed that the procedure for preparing the public procurement itself should be controlled, and since we know that this is not the work of the State Commission either, there should be ways to put the preparation procedures under control. And then there wouldn't be things and combinations like our colleague here today in the previous debate. To point out immediately, given that we have already had one controversy, we have discussed this, I would just like to draw attention to the fact that prior counselling is not a sufficient solution, it is not a good enough solution because it happens too often that interested companies do not report these previous consultations, and this is so often a phenomenon that it is difficult to take away the impression that this is not an accident just when jobs under these competitions are obtained precisely by certain companies that were known or expected to receive jobs in these competitions, and there is a problem, we should prevent that if possible and if there is a will. For this reason, I note and remind you that we still have a lot of room to improve the procedures in public procurement procedures, that we have a lot of room in the part of the control of public procurement procedures, as well as in the regulation of the rights, duties and obligations of the State Commission which are so far as they are, prescribed by this law, but I believe that, in order to ensure transparency of public procurement procedures and the aim of preventing corruption, we will have very quickly both changes and additions to this law and most likely the Public Procurement Act. Finally, I must mention that we at the SDP Club believe that the rights and obligations of the members of the State Commission during the term of office in this version of the law have been well defined and that it will make it much easier for the members of the State Commission to exercise their rights and also to monitor their obligations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44050	Now, as the sixth, she will speak to a respected colleague, Sandra Bencic, on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44051	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Honored representatives and representatives of the proposer. I will be, I will try to be concrete in terms of the objections that concern these very changes that we have ahead of us. Of course, the very problems of public procurement in Croatia, and the Public Procurement Act as such, could speak much wider, but this is actually about the question of the rights and obligations of officials within the State Commission for the control of public procurement procedures, so I will concentrate on that. So, what we've had so far as being problematic, was that almost no appointment procedure was envisaged, and it was still a public function. Therefore, the public business which, under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia should be, for which equality of access should be ensured. So, Art. 44 The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia says that every citizen of the Republic of Croatia has the right under equal conditions to participate in public affairs and be admitted to public service. The same right exists also in international documents that the Republic of Croatia and its signatories and which has ratified, thus being hierarchical over the law itself, so I believe that the question of availability and the public of this procedure, a question that should have already been settled, not because of compliance with... but also agreeing with the Constitution, in fact, implementing the Article. 44 The Constitution and compliance with the international documents that we have ratified. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However,... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44052	Excuse me, excuse me. Excuse me one more time. My colleague wanted to tell me something. [[All right, all right. It's all right.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44053	Here, I'll keep going. Therefore, access to these transactions must be characterised, first of all, by the principle of equality or equal availability, by the principle of citizenship which is integrated into the law and the principle of fair and transparent procedure chosen by interested candidates. However, how much of these principles is really integrated into this amendment and addition? So the only thing you can see that the government has now decided to improve is to introduce a public call and legally fixate the start of the mandate of a member of the State Commission. However, we still do not know who is in charge of this process, what is the content of the procedure, which criteria are taken into account when selecting candidates, how long will this public call take, who will participate in this process? They're all strangers. So we know something about the conditions that each member or candidate must meet, we know what the obstacles to the appointment are, but we do not know how this will affect the overall process and how it will be integrated into the criteria which will be an additional criterion for choice. Why am I saying this right now? So, with these amendments and additions, the procedure is still non-transparent and in fact, there are fewer elements than public calls in the process of appointing the Supreme Court president, and we know what this procedure is, or the shortcomings in regulation of the public call, what recommendations and legal recommendations have caused and how much they have actually affected the very procedure of electing the President of the Supreme Court that is still going on. So in order to avoid this, to avoid it, and we have to bear in mind that DCOM members are equally important, equally important and equally important and have a equally important public function because they really decide on the procedures in which they are annually, here at 2019 level, according to the Public Procurement Report for 2019, without VAT spending 40 and a few billion kunas, public and sectoral contracting authorities together. So it's a really demanding and important public job. Therefore, the issue of the impartiality of the members must therefore be tested in the front row of the government that proposes those members. Why? Well, the government and its ministries are one of the biggest buyers, so they're the ones most often and may be in conflict of interest. It is therefore important that the public call is arranged so that it cannot be said that the government has named it without objective and transparent criteria and procedures. He proposed those members and members, and the Assembly elected them. It also remains an important question, so when, if we are now introducing a public call, what is it, what about re-election of DCOM members? Will those who go to the re-election be in the same drum and go on a public call like everyone else who can apply or continue to re-election in a way that goes directly, that the government proposes them directly? Because if they do, then they're in a privileged position compared to others. I may misinterpret, but it's not clear, I'm just saying it's not clear, maybe we should clarify this relationship item, item 2, the new chapter 2, and the current section 4, in Art. 8. In order to make it more clear whether those who go to the re-election are going to the process. I would also like to mention that the same procedure should also apply to the question of the appointment of a DCOM member in the situation referred to in Article 1. 12.a. means when a member's replacement is proposed. So, also, why in that case, the parliament would not also, by the same procedure on the government's proposal, appoint deputies, why would there be logic here that the government itself could do so. So we have to keep in mind that it's 12 plus 12 months that you can name someone for a replacement. That's almost half the term of office. And I believe that really because of the prevention of conflicts of interest and transparency, the procedure should not be done by the government itself but should apply the same procedures as in the appointment, as in the appointment of new members. So, what's important is that when we move into norms or introduce a public call that we want to show, in fact, that we go in the direction of greater transparency, that we agree with certain norms or recommendations of the body dealing with corruption, then we need to do it fairly, then the thing is that the procedure has to be specified in detail, that we need to know every step and that it has to be done so that it cannot be manipulated and that it cannot constantly open up political recommendations because then it does not affect us and the question really affects the work of these bodies itself, but it also affects those candidates and the question is whether we get the best candidates if we didn't motivate them enough that we have guaranteed them a clear and transparent and fair procedure. I believe that really this proposal that has perhaps good intentions is not in sufficient detail elaborated to guarantee it and in this sense we will also submit some amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44054	Now we're going to move to the 7th debate, honorary colleague Anka Mrak-Taritash on behalf of the Center and GLAS Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44055	Thank you, well-respected President HS, the respected secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. It is before us in the second reading of the amendment and addition of the Law on the State Commission for the Control of the Public Procurement Procedure. Not long ago, we had this proposal in our first reading, and then we had a rather similar discussion. I have to admit, I made public procurement, or what it looks like the first time I met him in 2005. When I was in the Netherlands at my friend's, and when it was, in the Netherlands, it happened that a Belgian firm had received for Amsterdam through the public procurement process for children's kindergartens and parks. It was then at the level of national shame. In one Dutch arrangement, therefore, planting flowers and everything else was given to a Belgian company, and then since I was a while I followed it intensively, I was curious about what it was and how it was. Among other things, it opened up in the debate, they had, of course, as they all have some different open, so they had and the debate that was being held in public space was anyone who was members of the commission who decided on it, the public procurement and the result of which was the Belgian company. It was, it was that Malta not mayor or Amsterdam was divided into 7 municipalities, but it had to resign a little differently. And now that I've had a first reading and read this law and in second reading, I've remembered it. So it is extremely important that we know what the meaning and purpose of this law is. The point and purpose of this law is that we need to get that commission to conduct public procurement, so those 9 people who do it and who decide, have to be the most capable, have to be extremely competent for it, have certain experience and have to be willing to do it. Because with us, it's always all about that, my people, there's about 4 million of us, we'll see by the list that's going to be in the fall how many we really are and we don't have that different experts, different competences, so now we can do a little bit of this, we can do a little bit of that, and we need to be aware of that. And if we want to get a quality fit, to do a quality job, then we need to make sure that these people have to when they generally report to the competition they need to know what's waiting for them and they need to know what's waiting for them the day after. I asked one question in the replica of the secretary of state, I'm absolutely sure it would be an incomparably better model. So this is about state officials, it's about people who fit the Croatian Assembly for their work, so always someone who's the head of staff comes here and talks about the report on all the work. These are people who are appointed by the Croatian Parliament to the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for a period of 5 years. And if they are government officials and if we want to get state officials who will somehow be certain that after the duty they have, they have some possibility of going back to the old job or doing something else, then I am sure that this should be settled by the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, but this law, regardless of the announcements that it was and changed several ministers and even the ministry, changed the name of the ministry, but we have not seen a "z" since that law. All the things that should be defined and solved in that law are somehow not wanted. We today will have another law in which in one part we will regulate certain material rights of members, AZTN and everything else, therefore, and in that law we are doing so. I am absolutely sure that it would be incomparably better, more polite, more reasonable, whether we have the law, so through the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, we define what rights of state officials are, to define on what condition they are, to define that cooling time that is called so, so when our mandate ends, then a year you can't, or 6 months. or a year, depending on what it is, you can't do things. This is about another much more sensitive situation. This is about a legitimate question, so someone was working on the commission, the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedure, and after 5 years, they didn't want to go back to their own who was and had a chance to work and want to work something else and go to work at a firm that he decided in the public procurement process that he was getting serious jobs. Of course there will be questionnaires above all heads and that everyone will say... Maybe the last year does this or that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You don't need what I'm absolutely sure, you don't need to put people in a position to defend themselves about things that may not need to be defended. So it's a good thing you decided to define this. What's not good, the government is one body, of course the Resolute Ministry said we have a problem, let's solve this problem but at government level, I'm sure some other ministry has some other problems. Imagine what it would look like now if we had somehow one contigence of the law where every ministry in its portfolio goes to solve those who belong to government officials and they don't have all of this stored in the law, so we're going to deal with it through some other laws. It's not a model and it's not a way. So one message that we need to send is absolutely when we look at the situation, the real world we live in, we're ready for a decent debate and a decent law on preventing conflicts of interest in which we're going to define all of this. I'm really kind of convinced, if you want to get a quality fit to do that job, if you want to get people who have a certain experience, then these people have to have some security. He won't call you back. He won't answer, he won't say a word. Now I'm gonna do it for five years, after what I'm gonna do next, he won't answer. I always compare it with the things I've been through and the things I know and felt. You today and there is only one comparison that is only at the level of general thinking. We have to have quality inspectors, people won't be inspectors for the simple reason that they'd rather choose another job because, of course, behind that, they don't have the safety to get it and they're not adequately paid. So, let's go, there's always one dose of populism about what someone's pay or not pay. If we want to have quality procedures and public procurement processes, then we have to have people, quality people who do it. If we want to have a quality tub that has a certain experience, which has a certain knowledge, then it has to get security. This law gives them this security in a certain way, but in conclusion, there's no need to repeat everything I said, I'm absolutely sure, we're ready for the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, in which we're going to do it all for government officials in the same way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44056	Thank you, too. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Marija Selak Rasludić, an individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44057	My colleagues and colleagues, I will also be general on public procurement, and I will be specific about these legislative amendments. First, I repeat the practice that I now see is not an exception but a rule in the work of this assembly. That we are making changes concerning a particular case in this case of procurement without having discussed the report that is available in this case for 2019. It devalues the work of parliaments, makes it impossible for quality debates, as well as a proposal for quality legislative changes. In this regard, since it is not an exception but a rule on the work of the assembly, I can say that it is also a kind of sabotage of the assembly. We should therefore consider a common requirement for such a practice to be amended. I will also go back to the report in question because it helps greatly in giving attention to the gathering that is lacking in the public procurement system and what changes are needed to improve the system itself. Unfortunately, that's why I'm saying it's sabotage. That's the first problem. Another problem is we are now making these concrete changes concerning the material status of members of the State Commission for the procurement process but we are not in general working on the Public Procurement Act to be amended which is in force since 2017, nor are there any indications when this will finally happen, and we should return to that question. As far as public procurement is concerned, in general, before I move on to the concrete changes that I believe are needed in this legislative proposal, it is currently a matter of all questions as to what is the public procurement process at the time of the crisis. The biggest public procurement corruption risks are located precisely in the area of health, and this is due to the high amounts of medical equipment price, according to the Anti-Corruption Strategy for the period 2015 to 2020. However, despite the above conclusion that we have tried to oblige the Ministry to go through the public procurement procedure with regard to medical equipment at the time of this crisis but at least part of that equipment that is no longer subject to the same market criteria or is not its shortage, this conclusion was unacceptable, but what is particularly interesting in this conclusion that the Government has given in response to our conclusion on the return of the procurement procedure is that there is one committee which is a tripartite member of the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, the Ministry of Health, which is accompanied by the procurement mechanism, the delivery of goods and services in the context of what is purchased by the civil protection headquarters, or within the area where the current fertile ground for corruption is everywhere, which has been discovered in some EU countries that remain in the public procurement procedure in this crisis. So, there's one commission but that commission is government again, the government oversees itself. If you have already decided to choose some kind of control mechanism then you could also allow one of the parliamentary representatives to stand in that commission so that at least there is something that at least looks like some kind of control of the government's public procurement process, which is certainly necessary, because I will remind you of the affair that I was talking about here, where Sir Gaud was being obtained for 80 kuna per kg, and the answer was that it was about the ballots that were necessary and hence such a price, and they were being obtained from the same bidder before, so there could be no talk about any non-transparentity. They did that earlier in the procurement process, but no one asked how many bidders were in the procurement process? You'll be surprised, just one. How's that? That's the question of all the questions. Regardless of the public procurement procedure that we are doing nominally, whether we have enough bidders or if we return to this report from 2019 whether market research has been done at all to discuss the quality of the procurement process. The second problem mentioned in the report is the fact that the execution of public procurement contracts remains out of focus, and changes to public procurement contracts set up by legal provisions represent a gray area which currently manages to pass undetected in the public procurement system. So problems continue in practice. Public procurement was carried out in the first step, in the second step we have no idea what really happened. As regards legal amendments and this, it is necessary to amend the article, Article 6 relating to Article 12, which is the right to do so. shorter appointed members of the procurement commission. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44058	Thank you very much, please stay, Mr. Bully has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44059	Thank you very much. The colleagues of the public procurement system in Croatia not only through the control mechanism where you said that the government controls itself, but also at local levels where local and regional administration controls itself is essentially a key problem in the Republic of Croatia where healthy economies are destroyed, healthy entrepreneurs who can survive on the market or benefit from cartel and corruption in the Republic of Slovenia have led to those who have been perspectives in the opening of working missions, survival of people in Croatia, essentially cartel or let's say the club case of the head of Slovenia 9 let's suggest that Croatia has been networked through the cartel way of public procurement, agreements, corruption, crime and of course that the only real solution is the real control, and not that the government controls itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44060	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44061	I agree with my colleague Bulj, I will stick to the documents that have been adopted and in which this Government swears, the Anti-Corruption Strategy for the period 2015 to 2020, which exist on paper, and in practice nothing has been done. They're looking for concrete measures. Some of these measures include strengthening the legislative framework for public procurement, systematisation and harmonisation of laws, procedures and manuals in the field of public procurement. The law has been there since 2017, when are we finally going to change it? Improving the system of legal protection in the field of public procurement and supervision of the implementation of the public procurement contract, which I have already spoken about. The commission itself says it's a gray zone system and it manages to pass undetected, and nothing has changed. Monitoring the implementation of the rules in transparency of the right to access information and to prevent conflicts of interest, systematic risk assessment and priorities in supervision, strengthening the improvement of anti-corruption and ethical education, etc., etc. Everything on paper already exists in practice has changed almost nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44062	Mr. Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44063	Thank you. You have pointed out many of the problems of public procurement that are happening, unfortunately the law that exists has not made it impossible to rob the budget through the public procurement system, those that are hijacking continue. Unfortunately, those who truly want to save through public procurement and who have the best desire to buy something as cheap as possible using funds from the state or budget of local self-government units are in some way prevented from doing so. I only hope that on what happened in Croatia in Sisak-Moslavina County on this earthquake, public procurement for the performance of works will not be carried out in the way it is implemented so far and will not try to extract that extra profit through public procurement on what people have suffered and the damage they have suffered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44064	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44065	My colleague Lenart regrets that the reconstruction has made me afraid of when we will even get to the public procurement process, and then even if we will have bidders in view of their deficit and state in the construction sector, we can choose both appropriate prices and everything else. So that's something that's a lot to stand for and whose consequences are felt by all the citizens by the earthquakes in the affected areas. At the same time, those things that have been purchased and which are purchased during this crisis pass the public procurement process, which is certainly a fertile soil for corruption. And what you said about local self-government units, of course the price, but the public procurement system is extremely complex and the price can never be the only criterion because it can happen to get cheap and non-quality products, which is why we need to go back very quickly to new public procurement. Therefore, it should be taken into account, however, that the market should be explored before that, but that is also not done.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44066	Mrs. Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44067	Thank you very much. So, respected colleagues, you were inaugurating that there is a practice to discuss certain laws, and that in reports that would be the basis for them to be different decisions in laws we don't have a chance to discuss. So I didn't wake up lazy to go to HS's agenda just to determine my knowledge. So, since last summer we have a report on DCOM's work that was delivered to the Parliament, it's on the agenda, but it didn't come to the plenary session. So we can't always transfer responsibility to the ministry or to the government because she did her part of the job. And why does it wander the halls of Parliament and why it didn't come to the plenary session, that should be asked. I also agree that when you have a set from a resistor or some topic that it would be good to discuss everything in one day or in two days because you would get a much better and much wider picture than this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44068	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44069	Dear colleague Mrak Taaritash, if I am not mistaken because I have examined this report where the direct commission asks us for help and tells us what is wrong with the public procurement system, I have also noticed that there is a report from the Committee on the Economy of Resent if I am not mistaken, so it is also debated there. The only place that hasn't been discussed is in this assembly. And since it's not about the exception, but it's about the rule almost all the reports, let's say we talked about the islands, and then we further discuss when they're almost irrelevant after certain legal changes have been passed. I cannot call this a different matter than or a serious disregard for which one should suffer the consequences of not being able to do his job or at the same time perhaps by sabotaging the work of the Parliament. This can't be done. So it's a very simple hodogram that needs to be followed to have the serious and systematic debates this people deserves and what they pay us for.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44070	You don't have any more replicas. Mr. Miro Bulj is on his way. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44071	Thank you very much. Public procurement and when we talk about public procurement, citizens must also know how pointless these discussions are, how important they are. What makes them pointless, and what makes them significant? They are significant because public procurement affects the development of the Republic of Croatia. Here is mentioned earlier, Sir Gouda, which was obtained at a tenfold higher price than in a small sale during the Banovina earthquake during this crisis, is important because many entrepreneurs of people who would compete, who were competitive, who would create new jobs simply if they were not in the corrupt network or in the cartel system could not survive and that is why Croatia is at the top of corruption. Public procurement as well as public tenders Here we are talking about public procurement and this amendment to the law should be significant and we should discuss it that the better we have a public procurement system. However, the senselessness as I said in the first sentence is that the ruling party has appointed a parliamentary representative to talk about public procurement, transparency that is suspected of... councilman. That says how pointless the message is, we're talking about the senselessness of the debate in the Parliament. Not blaming anyone, nor am I a judge, nor am I a juror, because I do not believe in the Croatian judiciary that Vladimir Seks put together with his godfathers, with his godfathers, the president of the club Mr. Bačić and other godfather lines. However, this is a serious issue and a serious topic, ranging from local to state level of public procurement, affecting new jobs, progressive development. I can talk about public procurement in my Sinj that were harmful to very important projects, even significant to the national level that affected my city's development, so we can talk about Dalmatia, other cities. There are also positive likely examples, but talk about public procurement in a way that only public procurement is to discuss and change something. A cartel system where ministers, where we have two ministers in the system who are essentially having public procurement and being in Club 9 in Slovenia with representatives of parts of the judiciary, speak as much about the mistrust of investors in the Republic of Croatia, which is very important. So the senselessness and importance of this debate is being doubled here, and I hope this is a much more serious matter, that public procurement will be fair, that it will be what the future needs to be. As they must be at local level, so must they be here. Is the case of the same public competition, so it's enough for me to think this through, now I'm going to think a little off topic, but according to the subject. When I think of only this part of Krk's NP as hiring enough tells you what it's all about. They were more important cards than expertise and this one all it took. There's so much, it's meaningless to argue like this if we don't make the right solutions that are possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44072	The replica of Mrs. Crescent. Selak Rasudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44073	Dear colleague Bulj, as you comment on the fact, which should be positive, that the European Commission is in September 2019. published the corrected version of ‘Single Market Scoreboard’ and the Republic of Croatia is there in terms of public procurement declared green, so we finally got some satisfactory assessment, but we are also making legislative changes in which the powers of the assembly or the public call as such should not be as a competition, but at least some control of those elected to the state commission in case the current members were prevented or did not appoint, all power is in the hands of the government, and in these cases the public call procedure is suspended for a period of one year. So we would be green, while at the same time reducing the control of those who could become members of the commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44074	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44075	So I would say here that the control of public procurement would be much more transparent if there were an opposition involved, representatives of parliament who bring these laws into control, we say that we should find these mechanisms, not only those who call public procurement to control themselves not only at state level but also at local and regional level, that it would be much more open and much clearer if the opposition from parliament was included, and of course the council would get a more significant full role here, not that the government that calls itself and the ministry were essentially controlling itself. I think that would be the best solution to include the opposition, even if possible the broader aspect. However, we are also responsible for those laws that we make and that we must be careful if we chose the government, we cannot say that we wash our hands of this. We should ultimately be controllers and opposition and ruling and HS should control all public procurement and that should be pursued. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44076	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. It's Mr. Josip Boric's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44077	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. In front of us is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures and has sparked a certain debate. We also heard colleagues from MOST arguing, always forgetting about that affair of Grizzly that we remember how they were getting some of their services, you could get, I don't know, a TV show, you could have raised a criminal case against someone, you could have met, maybe met with a minister somewhere in Zagreb, etc. They're the way they've been providing services, but they always forget the word of course. What is important, however, is this law that we are talking about and a commission that is an independent and independent state body that has only 3 tasks. I think they're doing it well, that's transparency. We have their website clearly, we can monitor the course of procedure, efficiency and independence, about efficiency and independence, I say today we're talking about something. Because when we look at the history of public procurement we remember the time when they were gone at all, there almost all year in the '90s, and then the beginning of 2000-2010 we learn about public procurement and we start to apply. Of course, then the EU's entry, the application of EU legislation and our amendments to the laws that follow it, and today we have a law that works for me, shows this report by the State Commission itself all the years before 2020 that they are very much fulfilling their task. That is why it may have been necessary for this law to be regulated by that status which has not been resolved so far, given that they are making decisions which are mandatory, and that they are not, I don't know, officials are not even a body that we can in any way say is a court, but when we make decisions, we are bound to respect them in some way, of course there is an administrative procedure that the high administrative court can also consider their decisions and this clear report shows that these decisions can be annulled. Then their knowledge applied may not be worth as much as the court said. We, I say, have heard some data today, 2019 is collected from all fees and all the complainants 17 million and 311 thousand kuna, and their work costs us around 9 million and 883 thousand. It means that the state commission, however, in its own way, allows a few more money to come to the state budget, given that there are many complainants in many proceedings. We had 13,000 that year, a total of 13,000, over 13,000 of the procedures that ended in complaints of 870, about 6%. Which suggests that one large part, over 90% of public procurement procedures, and this shows all the reports, ends neatly and that in some way objections to these proceedings. We can't forbid anyone from complaining no matter how much he thinks he's wrong or wrong, and they're doing it neatly. And here again, the data shows that there are those especially in large systems, when we talk about procurements that are being explored by public companies or especially the health system, that there are those who have 6 and more complaints over the year, which means they have certain intentions to fight for their ad let's say business, and that they think they're right, and that's being solved by the State Commission. I won't call them professional mourners because they're completely different and they don't fall into that sphere, but there are those that make it impossible for us. And more investment, and stronger investment especially of public enterprises but procedures exist, procedures exist and I think the State Commission is really doing it right. The number of cases per year is over 1100, so today, last year there were a little more than 2019, 2018, etc. Because there are obviously more jobs being offered on the market, we were talking today about 43 billion total value of all public procurement, and surely there are many things in that space that might interest someone who appears to be putting up their complaints and seeking their own rights. Today we've heard someone cancel out some I don't know, big infrastructure projects, appeal and payment 5000 kn, if something 2 billion, I don't think it can be 5,000, that these fees are a little more, you have to give 100 grand and make sure they won't lose them if you're wrong and there are, but I'm saying, today we're on the market, the law is clear. And I'm going to support this law because I think it's finally in order [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, weather.]] relationships of people who... [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44078	Thank you. Two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, the first injury to Mrs. Credentials. Selak Rasudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44079	Art. 238, my colleague, Boric, is very burdened with my previous television career, I don't know if it's because he's jealous or because he's my fan, so he misses my televised debates. There is nothing intransparent and unusual about the procedure that I have come to television with, please feel free to check if you find it, I invite you to inform all Croatian citizens. And I think you have a future, a television future, that you should, for example, run a central information show. which you're editing anyway. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44080	Thank you very much. Look, ma'am. Rasputic, Selak Rasludic, I should stop you here at the beginning and I don't do that, I never do that. I'm giving you a warning because you know it was a replica and then you'll have a replica. And now Mr. Bull's got a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44081	Thank you very much. Here's the standard, my colleague, Boric, he hurt his ankle. In 238, with the intention of bringing up untrues because it simply had the bridge of obsession and so much love that I couldn't understand why because he knew that the Bridge was always principled, that for the first time we had extraordinary choices. Comrade Boric, I just stressed that the Parliament should control public procurement more and you as Assistant Minister Calmeta or Secretary of the Ministry during Kalmeta, you know how the works are shared Color tunnels and the like. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44082	You've got your 30 seconds public and you've got a warning of course, but you know it all. Now it's a real replica, Mrs. Dory. Maria Selak Rasudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44083	Col. Boric said we remember a time when the public procurement was gone at all. Perhaps it would be more precise if you said with nostalgia and sadness we remember and remember the times when the public procurement was not yet available. I know you don't like it when someone reads and you often mention it, but here, I just like to read as well, so I read this report from the Commission that hasn't been discussed yet, so I'm going to ask you as part of the ruling majority, which is why I find you co-responsible in sabotaging the work of the Parliament because of your orders coming from the President of the Parliament, why do we have a persistent order of debate in the Parliament so we don't discuss the reports before we make the legislative changes to which these reports apply? So why are you participating in the sabotage of the Parliament's work?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44084	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44085	As for sabotaging the work of the Parliament, perhaps the best address for you was Mr. Bozo Petrov, he was the President of the Parliament, for a while until we had replaced him, to ask him how he created or proposed agendas, so he could teach you a little bit about how the agendas were coming and what was happening during the debates of the weekly, monthly, let's say in the spring and autumn session so that you can understand what the work of the Parliament is. I still don't think you know that part, and you think that you from the opposition should actually lead this body, this institution and you should impose your bodies in some way. You have the right in your Rules of Procedure once you have collected a number of signatures, put in a point that suits you and discuss it, if you are interested in the State Commission report, you will collect the signatures and we will discuss it. So in that part, I have nothing more to add. Learn what you can do in the Croatian Parliament. And as for these other discussions, I said everything and it wasn't about your show. It was about the Grizzly affair. which should have made it possible for another show on that same public television. [[Thank you very much, thank you, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44086	Thank you very much. - Mrs. Crescent. Selak Rasdic sought a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44087	Art. 238. I will remind you that here I do not represent myself but the citizens who have chosen me and that this agenda is not the agenda that I want but the monitoring of your agenda and the requirement to be purely logical, so it is the minimum civic responsibility you have to discuss the report before discussing the point that you have chosen to put on the agenda according to your preferences.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44088	Thank you very much. You didn't even say any part of Article 238, but it was a replica anyway, that's a second warning. Mr. Miro Bulj, also a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44089	Thank you very much. He injured his colleague, Boris, Article 238. The Rules of Procedure, because here he mentioned the time of God Petrov, who was very short here who imposed the real topics of the CNB with which you were working, the opening of the archive of the Uzbek archives against which they opposed to acquire their tokens and to take power here and usurp democratic processes against the interests of you remember Vrdoljakov from HNS and everything you've done Evil to this people... [[Thank you very much, thank you very much.]] [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44090	Second warning because it was a replica. Mr. Grmoy's breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44091	I've answered with awareness that I'll be warned means because...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44092	In order to be warned?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44093	Yes, with the aim of being warned, I just want to let the public know that I am enjoying the statements of my colleague, Boric, who does not have a MOST, but rather some alleged affair of Grizzly. And I'm trying, so when I want to say something about his party's affairs, I don't know what to list, it's so much that I can't decide. I don't know if you'd talk about Branka Kamali Bačić's girl's bag. Or maybe you'd talk about Mr. Calmeta and Boric [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] I don't know what to do. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44094	Thank you very much. You have an injury, you have a warning, you have your first warning because you have abused the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure, and the other because it was your goal. So you have two warnings. Mr. Branko Bacic, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44095	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Article 238 was injured by his colleague Grmo. Rules of Procedure. Otherwise, he's prone to labeling.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44096	Is that a violation of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44097	Yes, yes, the violation of Rules of Procedure in Article 238, because I say he likes to label other MPs. I could return it to him in the same way, so Metkovic is called a cheap guy, because as a parliamentary representative, he might be able to give a few swears to his parents so they don't embarrass themselves by the methics.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44098	Thank you very much. You know it's a replica of something that should have been a violation of the Rules of Procedure, so it's a replica, so I have to give a warning here too. And Mrs. Ankica Dragon, we're finally back on the lines. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44099	Dear Vice President, dear colleague Boric...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44100	What did I say? Unfortunately, not unfortunately. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44101	You are the head of the local self-government unit and you have probably conducted public procurement procedures for works and services. Have you had complaints about public procurement procedures and if you had how you had experience and how you assessed the work of the State Commission to control public procurement? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44102	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44103	Thank you very much, colleague Zmajić, of course, that everyone in their work especially at local level when it comes to large objects is exposed to the fact that in a public competition someone might also complain and there is and it is a regular procedure, which does not mean that the procedure was not good. Everyone has the right to point out any possible failure if it occurred either in the selection or in the tender documentation itself, etc. And after that, the commission takes action. What's good for me or I see it's good, and that's also the report that when it's completed, they have certain deadlines in which they give their opinion, it's now for 2019 it's been 16 days, and that's what we've been looking for because those deadlines were sometimes much longer, especially when the commission didn't have a complete composition and we've solved it and when they were much less. I think that system is working now. It shows I say the report, of course, while the paperwork is being completed and everything else is going on for a while, but I think those deadlines are just fine and everyone's more or less happy about it. I am satisfied with their work.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44104	Thank you, thank you very much, thank you. Mrs. Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44105	Thank you very much, Vice President. My dear colleague, you have looked a little bit at the development of public procurement by the time we have it today, and I think that's good because today is actually a Commission for Public Procurement Control far more effective than in those times when we were moving along this model. We remember that it took six or more months to get rid of the complaint, but I think that these proceedings are still going much faster today, which is in favor of everyone and of the orderlies who, including the investors. What should also be said that it is not just as my colleague Bulj said that this is the will regarding public procurement and non-transparency is being carried out at local levels by the mayor, do we all know that they are, by law, limited to the amounts of which they make decisions and thus related to public procurement. Everything over a million kuna goes to the city, municipal councils also the county assembly, so all councilmen are getting to know and decide on it. So I'd love to talk about this subject to be exact and accurate so that we don't create the wrong picture in public. I'm sure there's still a problem. and try to improve them. [[Intruder: Time, thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44106	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44107	I agree with you, colleague Jelkovac, so this debate should not go in the direction that tried to direct the Most, they talked about certain affairs because none of them probably ever carried out the procurement procedure. Some of them were local self-government leaders, I know what they were doing, we have data, they left behind a number of debts, and of course it's hard to discuss with such people in a professional way that we're trying to lead the debate here. We know what a state commission is and I've looked at here their number of objects that move over 1100 a year, almost every year makes them have to deal with 5 to 6 of them daily, of course with all their own, with their employees there are 25 others, all of them write and explain it, and I think they really show that the current resolution of their status gets even more of what they should be. So transparent, efficient and independent and everything else is then subject to political debates, and that's completely different from their work.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44108	Thank you very much. Mrs. Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44109	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow, well, many do not know when the first law actually took place on public procurement, so long ago in 2011 and then we know how many problems there were in the implementation and that we were all learning and torturing how to implement it, however, what needs to be pointed out in particular is that a few years ago and the process of precisely digital public procurement has been introduced and where everyone can check out who appeared, under which conditions, very transparently and what is still very important to note that these deadlines and the resolutions of complaints have been extremely shortened and have actually made it possible to carry out the procedure as high-quality as possible and it should be pointed out that this efficiency is very much improved and there we must very much Commend DCOM right now. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44110	Thank you very much. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44111	Thank you very much, colleague Peric. So here, I said, so we had 2019. 13 190 complaints about public procurement procedures, and here we know that we are not talking about small, bagatile acquisitions, etc., means everything that goes beyond 500 thousand kunas and it's really certainly one process, a big process, but in this process 6% means the complaint in terms of meaning somewhere 870 complaints is anything that says that over, what I've already said, over 90% has no problem, means we've learned, that in municipalities, in cities, in public institutions, in public enterprises, in ministries we have educated people, certified people, that we know how to carry out the public procurement process, and that it doesn't cause certain raps and reactions through complaints, and I think it's still ahead of us because we're still learning in time, given that we entered the EU, we still have what we have to do and what we do today through this law solve may be minimal to someone, some have said that it's pointlessly impossible. But I think it helps those to be what I already said. [[Intruder: Time, thank you.]] more transparent and independent. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44112	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44113	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Col. Boric, you spoke about professional applicants, or complainants who actually obstruct public procurement procedures just because they actually want to achieve some advantage since they did not get in this contest, simply re-enlisting this public procurement process to the State Commission, they are obstructing that the process is actually being implemented and that the project is being implemented. It's visible from what the secretary of state answered my question in the replica, that about 50% of complaints on average are justified, 50% is not. Those 50% that aren't, the same someone needs to solve and take some time, so I'm wondering, what do you think you should do that particular segment that you've been focusing on in your debate, those professional applicants or the complainants, somehow? managed to prevent in their intentions? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44114	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44115	Here, I wouldn't know exactly how to prevent them because if he, who you have now cited, is a professional complainant, it means there are certain reasons why he's making a complaint in every competition, and he thinks, and maybe he's not sure he wants to do this job, but he obviously wants to do something else, and there's no way we can know what to do except the Commission itself, and what I've looked at in the report is that these lawsuits on decisions alone, the State Commission somewhere 80 percent refuse, and 20% of these lawsuits are being adopted. So what we have, I say, in this total number of complaints that go beyond 1100 a year, it's clear that most of them are more or less in order, and that 20% of them continue their proceedings and some of them end up in high administrative courts themselves. So, here, I say, I think it's hard to stop them, I don't think this law is solved, will any of the following [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Power changes, I don't know. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44116	- Mrs. Crescent. Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44117	Thank you very much, Vice President. You spoke of today's quality of work by the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. I would say that it has a special role and importance, especially since Croatia's entry into the EU, since many grants are available to us, and we know that these procedures are extremely demanding, that extensive documentation, that they are related to time limits, and what is worst, that there is the possibility of recalling these funds, and therefore, at this time of appeal, and I am pleased when we heard from the secretary of state that such procedures have priority, however, they are just a little shorter, in a somewhat shorter time than any other means, because it is of great importance to all of us. Even 12% of the funds from all EU-funded procedures end with DCOM.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44118	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44119	Well, I agree with my colleague, so that means that these funds or these tenders that are using these funds should have been given priority, even if I say in this part of which you've been talking about, that's a little less than what it is, let's say, when we talk about all the other means that go into public procurement procedures, but I think that here, for seven, eight years of EU membership, we've seen very well the benefits of the EU funds themselves, that every local self-government that uses it knows and I think that there are, in fact, all those who today as mayors, the mayors, the mayors, the mayors of the funds that have been withdrawn, and they've had to put people around them professionally, certified, so let's say, let's say, let's get to every situation and, of course, implement the procedure right, to agree, and then the realisation is quite something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44120	And at the end of the day, Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44121	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, here's my colleague, Petyr, who actually overcame me in the subject of the replica, and I wanted to refer to what you said about professional complainants and ask you to solve this problem because it turns out that, if there are many, complaint complaints, 5000 kn per 5000 kn and the state budget super. The problem, however, is that the public procurement process in these situations is stopped, and that is not good anywhere, and especially in health care that you also mentioned. It is also said on the parent board that a slightly larger number of complaints appear shortly before the opening of the offer, even for example about 4 days before the opening, and DCOM itself suggests that in the event that some of these complaints are unfair, even the procurement process should not be stopped. Then how do you think you can solve this problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44122	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44123	So I told my colleague Petir that I don't know, we tried with these fees, but it didn't yield obviously fruit, obviously these professional complainants still have, so they're not equal fees for jobs up to 750,000 kuna or for jobs over 60 million kuna, and all this is about public procurement, let's say in a way that we might try to deter them from it because they might lose money. But whether there's going to be an even bigger fee or if there's going to be another model, I don't know it right now. What I do know is that before any call for a public tender, we have to do an e- Consultation, let's put it outside as a project so that everyone can say to it if there are certain objections and ask and at the time of the public tender, there are deadlines and then there are no more objections to it, except after that we can complain about everything. I say, there's a commission to solve the matter of procedures themselves and they have work to do, not that they won't have it because they're big.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44124	Thank you very much. No more replicas, thank you very much. Now it's Mrs. Anka's turn, Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44125	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Respected secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. So, in the debate, we have an amendment and an addition to the DCOM Act, but like everyone else, we can kind of get kidnapped by calling the sirens, so we're going to discuss and discuss what public procurement is. So, by amending and supplementing the law, it tries to regulate that a state commission that fits the HS proposed by the Government, which has a period of action of five years to regulate what has not been regulated so far. And this amendment and the addition of the law is in principle sort of regulated somehow by legal-technical deficiencies, there will open up the issue of calls, the question of who might be, but I absolutely think it's good to regulate it. But there is that topic, so all of us who come for this speaker will show that we have and that public procurement is something that has been working in Croatia since we became a member of the EU, that in the way that it used to work we have certain improvements, but that we are not satisfied with it. What would be much better if we had discussed in the same day a report on the work of DCOM and this law because in this way we could compare some things, we could point out some things and we could also say and maybe give some answers and talk some answers as far away as possible. I don't think any law is carved into stone, I think every law is very flexible should follow it and be changed. What DCOM told us in her report for 2019, except that she showed a number of those figures and showed how many cases she received, how many complaints there were, which in the appeal procedure solved. In this report, we should read the following, among other things, it is really good, and I like to always praise it when something is good, it has proved to be related to public procurement that Croatia has become one of nine EU countries in 2019, so-called ‘EU’. The green so-called procedure that it was basically brought into some decent frames. What's interesting to see, see what percentage of the case is, so you're against the state commission's solution to the administrative dispute, and it's always convenient to see how much in court the state commission's decision to say is going down, so that's about 16%. Some of the indicators that speak, say I'm speaking in general about things in the administrative court about 10%, and then keep things under control, and you're even. But what is more, the state commission said in that report, that the number of complaints is increasing, that there are complaints about documentation that automatically delay the procedure and that in this sense we need to amend the law, she said that of course what a colleague before me said, those professional complainants who are professionally complaining and in the report even you have and listed often those who have an increased number of complaints. But she said two more things, which is that there is a need to strengthen administrative oversight of public procurement bodies, so that something is defined through administrative supervision and said the importance of education. We have completely forgotten the importance of education. We take some things for granted, but that importance of education is extremely important. It's extremely important that you can compare yourself with someone else, that you can see things that change. When I was speaking here on behalf of the club, I was talking about an experience that I was so familiar with, I felt like I was watching a series in the sequels when I was in the Netherlands and when they had a problem, so it was somewhere in 2004, 2005, when they had a problem with their public procurement, I didn't understand what they were talking about, because that's why we had the public procurement with us at all was an absolute foreign noun, and when they returned the importance of the commission, the importance of the commission, the importance of which they were made. We forget education, education is extremely important, not to say it would be bad that sometimes also the parliamentary representatives [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] which are their rights and obligations a little bit educational, so we have that councilman's guide, but forget that I said it out of time. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44126	Thank you. You've got replicas, so you'll be able to keep thinking. Mrs. Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44127	I agree that education is important, and I will make a joke, so I will say that I have recommended it to our prime minister, and it would not hurt our parliamentary representatives, especially when we talk about the commission and the problem that they are also suffering from the deficits of staff, which should be stressed and should help them solve this problem, or that we are keeping the best in the system that is most important for the country. But I'd like to ask you something about conflict of interest. We've talked a lot about this so that the council should have control as well as a public call on those who have been in office for a year. However, in Art. 7.d. the right to return to work in the private sector, where conflicts of interest may occur if a member of the commission was previously employed in the private sector, and then in section 2, it is said that the contract between the members of the state commission and the employer referred to in Article 1 will determine the conditions for achieving the possibility of the return. Would it be better if it had been worked out in the law itself, not left behind by some sublegal act or contract?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44128	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44129	Thank you very much for your question. About where I ended up, it would really be good for us all to be together and to be educated all our lives, somehow you should always be, trying to be better. Otherwise, I'm sure it would be better if all of these topics were about the state commission, so it's about officials that it was regulated by the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. But the record of that law will almost be gone because our prime minister obviously goes to the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, somehow put him under the radar and the rest, and apparently that law won't see the light of day soon either, but I'm sure it would be incomparably better if it were regulated there because then a series of dilemmas and a series of things could solve there and all that, that thread that you do before and after is not so simple.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44130	Thank you very much. Mr. Price.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44131	Dear colleagues, in case something is overpaid in a private company, it is, of course, a loss for the owner of the company and their responsibility. In case it happens in a state-owned company, state or public body, or in cities and municipalities, of course, that in one way or another will ultimately pay our fellow citizens. Since in Croatia we have more than 800 companies, hundreds and hundreds of JLS, unfortunately it is difficult to lead and pay attention to so many entities where something might happen. If we start from the fact that the vast majority of people do their jobs fairly, it can always happen that in one small part of the cases corruption happens. It can have disastrous consequences for our society. Corruption not only damages society, not only damages citizens, it also leads to the growth of inequality in society, resulting in corrupt politicians having money, thus having an advantage. Unfortunately, it may also be part of the problem with having such a large number of state-owned companies, hotels, business spaces, and so forth.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44132	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44133	Thank you very much. As soon as the topic of public procurement is in any name, of course it opens up all the dilemmas you're talking about. We have 556 municipalities in Croatia, which towns or the City of Zagreb have status and municipalities and cities. Of course the headlines always fill up when you get over something a few times, so I can somehow remind you all of the Zagreb cablemen who started with 200 million kunas, and they'll end up somewhere on 750 million kunas, where a number of things were especially about construction works, about extra-cost work, and all of this is regulated by the law. And then on the one hand, we always refer to laws, but on the other hand, let's look at how it works in real life and in real story. Just to finish the thought of a cable car. According to the cable company, it is not allowed to work because it is not designed in accordance with the anti-quake conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44134	Thank you. That's right, it's time for this dictator.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44135	It is.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44136	Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44137	Dear MPs, you've been a minister, you've probably heard of many events happening in public procurement. I suppose you know, in fact, that those who run public procurement can eventually agree on the consequences only after the revision of public procurement. So while something's going on, while something's being sold, while something's being bought, there's nothing going on in that period unless nobody's reported anything. So if we have companies that work together, if they have any common interests, if they report to competitions together, they get jobs, there's no problem. Eventually, if an audit comes in and finds irregularities in public procurement procedures in a company or an institution, some consequences may arise only afterwards. Most often these are the consequences of correcting mistakes in future public procurement, but the budget is empty.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44138	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44139	Thank you very much. So when you're doing some kind of public work, whether you're a municipal mayor, whether you're head of some public firm or you're a minister, I always think you should do it the way you do it at home, that according to public money, that's all our money, you treat it responsible the way you would do it at home. If you don't do something at home I don't see the reason and it's absolutely wrong to do it when you're handling it. However, you should be incomparably more careful and all together. Our salary, we get our salary from a budget filled with citizens of the Republic of Croatia and we have a responsibility to them. When you're in executive power, that responsibility is incomparably greater. And I must remind you that so far, we have had the Revision Act where the revision would have established something and beyond that, it could have acted under another law. Now we've really changed the law a little bit, so we can act, but not what we need to react right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44140	Thank you very much. Mrs. Devereaux. Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44141	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. counterpart Anka Mrak-Taritash, you can see that the reconstruction of the building after the earthquake in the City of Zagreb has not actually begun. Two days ago I was in Petrinja and it's something scary, it's a ghost town, it's nothing started to rebuild. The only thing is, the streets were cleaned, and if it hadn't been for HV, it probably wouldn't have been. Tell me, is this a problem in the public supply of goods and services or is it a problem in the incompetence of this Croatian government?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44142	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44143	Thank you very much. So there's no problem in public procurement. When disaster occurs to you, then according to certain regulations and public procurement, you can do it in a brief procedure, but not to explain it now, there's no need but to refer to your question. It's absolutely a thing, I thought there was something waiting first, so I thought something, that someone else had something further, was absolutely incompetence. Between saying you're going to do something and doing something, it's a hell of a difference. It's almost 13 months. passed since the earthquake in Zagreb, no bricks have been systematically restored, according to the law, according to the ministry's decision and the fund has begun to work And now that this is an earthquake, we have the Ministry, [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] We've got a fund, we've got a central office, no one's gonna know what he's doing anymore. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44144	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44145	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President. Representative Mrak-Taritash, you commended Croatia for receiving the green label i.e. a good place to talk about the assessments of Member States that conduct public procurement procedures in a good way. What seems to me to be sufficient public expectations and we often discuss this in the Parliament, so that more representation of Croatian companies and Croatian products in public procurement procedures can be achieved? You have experience because you were a minister, so these requirements do not exist today but exist before and you have probably something that you can share with us, where there may be some obstacles, where there is room for improvement and what Croatian companies themselves can do to have a better transition to public procurement procedures.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44146	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44147	Thank you very much for this question. It won't take me a minute. So every time Croatia is in good shape, I really want to say it from this pay phone, that's my country, I live in it, I care about it, and whether I'm an opposition representative or not, it's irrelevant, it's important that Croatia is in something good, regardless of because there's so much bad that it's important to say it's in something good. When you enter the procedure and when you call a public procurement tender, of course it is always of interest for us to be Croatian companies and that we have a problem, especially when it comes to, I can say this about construction or construction, that very many workers of value went out, we have companies that do not stand well and there are especially Austrian companies where we were... The market is incomparably better. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then you have to introduce some other elements that you have the opportunity to introduce. And why aren't we bringing them in? Because when you introduce some additional criteria These are your options of appeal. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]] And then we leave only one criterion, That's the basic reason. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44148	Thank you very much. No more replicas, thank you. And now it's Madam. Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44149	Dear Vice President, the respected secretary of state with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to look right at the State Commission or the law that we're changing and that we're actually improving the State Commission itself. In fact, you know that the members of the State Commission are not state officials, and neither are the judicial officials, however, everything they do and all their actions, are actually considered by officials within the meaning of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest which has actually further complicated the entire system. Namely, it is very important that in this system work very high-quality and educated and constantly educated people who can handle public procurement procedures very well and as we have said so far, the public procurement process itself has been changed several times over several times and over these years we have witnessed how many problems there have been and how much actually the State Commission helps with its quality and expertise and advice if you look and their pages where you can really monitor certain situations. What I would point out is also a very high-quality step in the electronic system, i.e. an electronic advertiser where there is an increase in the transparency of all procedures namely, as you know, all entities involved in the procurement process must make a plan annually, whether it is a small procurement or a large one, must be given and assessed values and deadlines, it is also very important for local self-government units themselves that, as you know, the mayors and mayors cannot dispose of and manage those purchases if they do not have the consent of city councils or municipal councils for values over a million kuna, so all of this enables this process to be very visible, that it can be controlled and at any time establish the legality of the procedure. It is very important in this procedure that DCOM has also shortened the deadlines for appeal procedures, and in this it has made very great progress and everything happens within 30 days, and primarily for those purchases that apply to, to European funds, even up to 25 days. There has been a lot of talk about how there are actually professional complainants, if you see the DCOM report itself, then you can see that there are those who have over and around 27 complaints, and these are actually complainants who, whose acquisitions or acquisitions are of great value, and these ranges of up to 100,000 kunas for the values of more than 60 million kunas, it is really appropriate for you and such complainants to pay off certain high funds so that we don't have any more of those who actually hand over complaints without reason and thus delay the whole procedure. So I think, and when you look at the statistics as much as the Supreme Court, the High Administrative Court of 10% of complaints in the first degree actually admits only 3% of the decisions made by the DCOM High Administrative Court has annulled it proves that their decisions are of great quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44150	You have three replicas. The first replica, Mr. Begonja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44151	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues in public procurement procedures time is a very important factor especially when we talk about European projects. The fact is that in relation to the number of cases which are dealt with annually by the State Commission on the one hand and the number of members of the Commission on the other hand, I would like to ask your comment whether it is necessary to increase the number of members of the State Commission to increase the number of cases solved and to shorten the overall time of the procurement process more in the context of the new multiannual financial envelope, where we are about to have an ongoing struggle, a struggle with time to call it that, in order to withdraw the funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44152	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44153	Thank you very much, colleague, that we can speak in this context, given that the total purchase value so far has been over 43 billion kuna so far, and given this envelope that goes new, it will be much more and certain that in this context it should consider the possibility of increasing, empowering the number of persons who will carry out these procedures or decide on the supply itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44154	Mrs. Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44155	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, you spoke about the obligation of public authorities to plan public procurement procedures every year, the adoption of a plan, and there is also an obligation to adopt annual reports at the end of the year on public procurement procedures carried out where very transparently sees what procedures have been carried out, in which the amount is also available to the public. I think it's very important because also the revision that comes into the public authorities can, on the basis of these reports, control every subject of public procurement and every subject is subject to control and we see that in fact, the revision very little finds objects that find certain objections. As far as professional complainants are concerned, I think there's the biggest problem because they're actually slowing down these public procurement procedures to these unwarranted complaints that then stop the proceedings for a while. And I think we should actually try to find a suitable solution here, since it's expecting us. investment of large amounts of funds in projects. : [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44156	Thank you very much. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44157	Yes, thank you very much, yes, we know exactly what the procedures are, what everything should be done in the process that it is indeed all with the electronic procurement process and with all the documents that we have been obliged to do, and all those who continue to do this job to publish both the plan and the execution, and in this way everyone can actually control what was happening, with whom it was contracted, at what value, at any moment the sites and cities and municipalities can also find it. We know that on several occasions how much we've changed the Public Procurement Act have tried to find models how some such professionals actually prevent I don't think we've reached perfection yet. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44158	Mrs. Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44159	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear counterpart Peric, you spoke about the importance and quality of the work of the State Commission for the control of the public procurement process and the necessity of the adoption of these amendments and the addition of this law in order to improve the status of employees and members of the commission, since they are neither state officials nor judicial officials. Well, here's to our public knowledge, given the number of items, the number of items is often pointed out, the number of cases, to know that there are only 34 employees in the state commission, even though the systematization predicts 49. 94% is high-tech and therefore once again confirms that this, that should go urgently into these changes and additions. And as for financial resources based on compensation in 2019, that amount was over 15% higher than in earlier years, over 17 million kunas, which is an indication that no matter what Additional funding should not be allocated from the state budget so that we can also go to new employment. [[Intruder: Time, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44160	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44161	Yes, thank you very much, it's good that you pointed out how many total employees there are. The average number of persons on the state commission is about 7 years, which says that it is one continuity of those quality people who do this work from over in 2019, for example, over 13,000 procedures was only 1209 complaints, which is when you look at efficiency and how much it costs over 17 million kuna, and that the total costs of the state's commission itself for employees are about 7.5, 8 million kuna, so they clearly justify their work not for wanting to punish someone, but in fact, the procedure is very high quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44162	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. And now it's Mr. Branko Bacic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44163	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Respected secretary of state with an associate. By discussing amendments and additions to the Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, we are more concerned with its work and implementation of the Public Procurement Act than with the amendment of the law itself. Why, for what? Because of the change itself, I would say the technical nature of trying to make this amendment to the law more independent, independent and to contribute to the quality work of the members of the state commission. What is important to me and what needs to be discussed in this amendment to the law, it is through the debate to try the proposer, and this is the Government of the Republic of Croatia to help in a certain way in improving the laws themselves that define the state commission on the one hand, and on the other hand the public procurement system. The public procurement system in Croatia, as we have heard at the annual level, involves projects of around 43 billion kuna, which is more than 10% of GDP, and then the realisation of these projects whether it is concessions, whether it is a public procurement system of goods and services, makes a significant contribution to Croatia's economic development. Therefore, any brakes in the project, any retention of the implementation of these projects, in particular, makes a negative contribution to Croatia's GDP. Therefore, when we are discussing the state commission, then we need to do everything to make sure that the state commission can really react spotily, and although the Public Procurement Act is scheduled for a 30-day period, we are aware that it is often, often, more than 30 days. Here we are talking about a deadline that is being observed from the day the appeal is completed, when the full procedure is, however, often from the appeal itself to the completion of the procedure itself has been going on for a long time and we don't read it here. That's why I agree with all those who say that it is necessary to continue the teaming of the state commission itself to make the procedure more pro-pulsive, faster. When we see that there are some 17 million kunas at the annual level, which are income from the fee for the complaint, that the cost of the salaries is somewhere around 8 million kuna, I think it's very clear to all of us that then this cost is usually being passed, if I may say so, given that the fee from the complaint is the revenues of the state budget, it's going to go to the complainants, especially those we often call professional complainants. Therefore, it is necessary to do everything possible to speed up this procedure in the way I said earlier. In my opinion, there is still a high percentage of the adoption of the appeal. So, if in Croatia somewhere around 13,000 public procurement procedures of 870 end up on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, somewhere around 6%, however, of those 6% at the level of about 50% of the complaints adopted, so that is a very high percentage, it also falls to say about the training of public contracting authorities on the one hand, but on the other hand, the fact is that there is still around 50% at the level of 50% of complaints adopted by the state commission. We can say that it is necessary to further improve the procedure in such a way that the contracting authorities are truly those who will be able to react more easily and faster, so if you want to reduce the number of such complaints if the procedure is carried out in a better way, then those professional complainants themselves might have fewer opportunities to file a complaint and thus dispute the procedure. Therefore, I agree that this law should be adopted as planned, but it is necessary in view of the experience it has behind us and which speaks of improving the whole procurement process, it is necessary, on the one hand, to team up in the professional sense of the state commission to be shorter, but on the other hand, to further educate the contracting authority so that all that is before us can be realised. And if we want to talk about European funds, it's about 20 billion in the next seven, eight years, the euro, 20 billion euros in the next seven to ten years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44164	Thank you, too. Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic is replicating.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44165	Thank you, Proposer. The State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures is certainly one of the important bodies that is indirectly involved in the anti-corruption system. Therefore, for any amendment to the Law applicable to this institution, even if this is the case with a scrupulous change of law, it would be best not to prepare it for HDZ. I agree with the fact that for the success of the implementation of this body's tasks it is important to further team up the body, strengthen it through further changes and additions to the law, however, it is obvious that this will not solve the basic problem, which is the perception of our citizens, which is very much supported by the rhetoric of key political scene stakeholders that most public tenders are imagined and pre-arranged with the pre-elected performer. In doing so, the perception that the HDZ is ahead of it seems to me to be well justified by the examples we have in everyday life. What do you have to say about Mr. Bačić?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44166	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44167	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. What do I have to say about that? Ma'am. Oreshkovic, that you will never be able to make a bill except as an opposition representative, and the question is whether you will cross the threshold in the next election, suggest HS since the rating of the party or parties you have changed over the past few months is such that it does not cross even 1%, so you will not be able to do so. And maybe it's better that you're not in a position because when you were in a position to do something, so you've implemented completely wrongly very clear laws, which has been manifested both by the High Administrative Court and the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, as far as your notion of fighting corruption is concerned, unfortunately, it is his fault, because when you think you are fighting corruption, you are in fact breaking the law and thus contribute to the strengthening of corruption in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44168	Mrs. Devereaux. Branka Juričev-Martinchev. Injury of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44169	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 238. I think my colleague insulted my colleague's lawyer, whether she's doing her job or doing her job badly will be decided by the voters in the next election. Let the voters decide who will be in the assembly, don't decide in advance who will sit in the assembly, that wouldn't be very democratic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44170	I have to warn you because it was a replica, you know that. And this one, nothing, a warning. Here you go, this lady. Branka Juričev-Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44171	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear counterpart Bacic, you spoke of the percentage of complaints and wishes and our desire to keep this process as small as possible. I think the number of complaints is getting smaller precisely because of the transparency of the work of the State Commission to control the procurement process and on their pages we can see any decision, and then potential complainants can certainly see from each of these decisions an example of whether there is any point in complaining at all. However, here is one example from the report, says HEP has as much as 72% of the complaints adopted. However, we cannot only look at a figure of 39 of these adopted 54 complaints submitted to the state commission when HEP has 1021 complaints in its procedure annually. I would not then say that HEP is a failure or that it misimplementes the public procurement procedure if only 39 complaints were adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44172	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44173	I'd like to thank my colleagues, Jurichev-Martinchev. Yes, this transparency of the work of the state commission is also evident through the publication, the public announcement of every solution and decision of the state commission, but also in any judgment of the High Administrative Court, so that whoever actually follows and deals with public procurement from these decisions and by complaints, and also by the judgments of the High Administrative Court, can learn a great deal to make the following procedures in which public procurement is carried out stronger, more correct, fully in accordance with the law, so that their cases and their decisions by appeal would not then fall. By the way, here's the chance I've been taking these few seconds to tell Mr. Teller that I've made the voter's point, not mine. I said what voters think of Start, Smart, and I don't know which party she's been in lately. Oreshkovic, rather than saying the voter's position expressed on July 5th by his colleague, Price, so that the violation of the Rules of Procedure was completely missed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44174	Thanks, time. Mrs. Devereaux. Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44175	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague, I agree with you that there are still a lot of complaints and that it must be the key and that the orderers themselves are better educated. I think that one of the options is that, especially for smaller public authorities where there are fewer employees and where it is less likely for individual people to be educated only for this segment, I think that the establishment of bodies that will carry out a united public procurement process and even for more JLS is one of the options in order to then educate a certain number of people to do so and then carry out professionally these public procurement procedures. And as for the additional empowerment of the state commission, I think it's a solution because everything is a human factor, if there aren't enough people, we can't expect a speed in solving procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44176	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44177	Thank you. My colleague Jelkovac, that you are right, a large number of customers are not really trained to implement the public procurement system itself, otherwise a very complicated procedure. ... certain seminars, education, etc. shall be conducted. etc., so that your idea of uniting several contracting entities or forming a common body that will then help to implement the public, the public procurement process is to welcome me. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in that sense, the fact that the whole system has been improved lately and the number of complaints on one side is about to decrease and fall, which is important, it seems to me to be from the Commission's 2019 report. It is apparent that the number of complaints rejected is growing, or the number of proceedings which, according to the complaints, are being annulled or returned to the contracting authority, so that in this sense, however, it is slowly going to the better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44178	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. Now it's the last individual debate and Mr. Zeljko Pavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44179	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. Here's what I didn't really intend to report for the debate individually, but since some things are so easily qualified here, I thought it might be a good idea to discuss it a little bit more. In this regard, when it comes to the total amount of public procurement in our country of around 40 billion kuna and the number of complaints referred to to the Commission for public procurement, it is not realistic and it is not objective because we know which complaints are going towards the state commission and what is the worst we know what the state commission is solving. In fact, the state commission won't handle public procurement irregularities unless someone reports it. If such applications do not unfortunately remain where they are, as I said just so long ago until there is a revision that then audits the public procurement in the house where you work and then any errors and irregularities in public procurement are detected. That's part of the story. Secondly, I am glad that the ruling majority also accepted rhetoric and the fact that we must do something about it. I talked about it last time, I talked about it today. I believe that we need to improve public procurement, that we need to improve public procurement processes, that we need to strengthen the state commission or any other body that will work on additional public procurement control. At present, there is no body that would carry out overall control of the public procurement process unless it has been notified to the Public Procurement Commission or if someone reports it to another body that is subsequently investigating and determining that there have been some irregularities. We've already discussed this on the board, and we've talked about it like this, and I don't think there's any big dilemmas or big strangers here. But I would just like to draw your attention that there is one provision in the Public Procurement Act that says that not only should the cheapest or not be taken into account, but let's talk a little bit about the most favourable offer. Let's see how many public procurement tenders in Croatia are written in a way that looks for the most favourable offer. Let's see how many members of these commissions who have called public tenders, how many leaders of the body of local self-government, regional administrations or individual ministries have made every effort to make criteria, to write them down to get the highest quality offer. Let's see that, and you'll come up with a devastating result. And when it comes to the lowest offer, then you can also have a lot in these offers, which is done today, a lot of hidden items that are presented to those who are interested and most often receive competitions, which is generally very difficult to discover except when it is seen that after a year how long these purchases have actually not been delivered to some goods absolutely nothing, and the price of these goods has been extremely high and when the offer that was given to the goods that otherwise had a high price was low, so someone got the job and actually saw what was set up and what was not set up. But there are bodies that need to investigate this and that can be determined later by the review, but unfortunately we know what the consequences are, there is no consequence. And I guarantee you, given how much money is in play that we did research about 5-6 years ago and we have determined that the total costs of public procurement in the Republic of Croatia could be reduced by at least 25% if the criteria in the procurement bids themselves changed. And that's not small, that's very much. Don't forget that we currently have a debt to, according to the pharmaceutical industry, about six billion kunas as far as we know, and 25% of what is spent is approximately 10 billion kuna. Therefore, we need to discuss this, and that is why I was talking about changing processes, we need to change the preparation of public procurement, we need to change the bodies that will control it, or find a body that will really control it and that will be able to carry out complete control and then, of course, call out some penalties and process people who have committed violations.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44180	Thank you. Mrs. Andreja Maric, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44181	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, I think that every public procurement entity is intended to have no complaints about their public tenders, especially if they don't end up auditing or fail to audit. So I think that each institution is meant to have well-educated public procurement specialists, and then you have those courses, certificates, etc. But when you talk to people who do public procurement, who have a lot of experience, who have some knowledge, I have talked to some people, then they say that in case they need some kind of advice, there is actually no state body whose opinion is binding. So they address the Department of Trade and Public Procurement policy at the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, which after about 2 months write an opinion that is not binding. Then what about these people, I mean how do you help them in public procurement not make mistakes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44182	Yes, unfortunately, there is no body that gives binding, binding opinions and everything actually stays on those people who have passed public procurement courses, who have received certificates that they can conduct public procurement in the Republic of Croatia. And, of course, there is their personal responsibility, and we talked about it when Mrs. Dark Taritash was there, when we said that there was a great responsibility on the heads of these bodies, that there was a great responsibility on the people who carry out these competitions themselves, who write these competitions and, of course, their morals, their sense of social money, a sense of money that we all together had in the common register how this money would be spent and whether we were going to do 5 of something from it or just 1 thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44183	Mr. Price.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44184	Dear colleague, he is interested in the fact that, in accordance with the Public Procurement Act, prior consultation is required, so for the public procurement of high value, the contracting authority should meet interested economic operators with a description of the offer, specifications and criteria, do you think that this is a solution that is good that would prevent the problems of later complaints that might resolve these relations a little better? Is that a solution that's been well spent? [[Invader Pavić: Look, it's...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44185	Mr. Pavić, I must give you my word, please. Here, answer it. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44186	This must be another step, another public procurement activity, which is a major improvement because large amounts of players who actually and who actually dictate the pace in the work have appeared. However, there are interested actually small entrepreneurs who want to report to these competitions and to clarify some things in this previous discussion, they can actually ask a question afterwards and even happen that, very often, some of the documentation for public procurement and change. One part is explained, what is considered to be controversial, not good, that part of the documentation changes and that's good. But what's the problem? The problem is that if this competition is intended to be contacted by a company that is known to have a special status, that it will get a job, then there are no legal entities that would be interested in the job and I already mentioned it and that is a fact and we all know that and we know what companies are in question but nobody is doing anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44187	Thank you. Mr. Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44188	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear colleague, as head of the local self-government unit and alone in the obligation to conduct public procurement procedures and we have a lot of experience about it. In my personal experience, the opinion is that successful public procurement procedures are necessary and are key educated, capable and experienced to tell people in the implementation of the procurement itself. Now there are often problems of such professional people that are very difficult to keep in the system, especially in the public sector, starting with municipalities across the county, especially to the ministries, because such people simply go to us to give in the private sector or anywhere else and simply to keep them because I am a system of stimulating or paying and wages is simply so complicated that such people are hard to keep. Then we get new people who have to be educated again for a certain period of time, etc. I'd like to hear your comment on that opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44189	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44190	I agree fully with you, we know that this problem exists, you actually receive trainees who are then educated, when they have finished schooling, when they become experienced public procurement referenda, after which they go not to the privateer, privateers are not obliged to public procurement, but go to the most often and public companies that have high wages. And it's a common phenomenon, we're aware of that, but we should actually find ways to reward these people uniquely in all bodies. So, both public enterprises and local self-government bodies, i.e. local self-government and regional administrations. And so are the ministries. If the salary were always the same for those referenda, there would be no need to go to a public company and then there would be no, I don't know, 20, 30% higher salary, and that's a big problem. And especially for local self-government because local self-government, I believe, given that these people are close to voters, that they are close to their citizens, that they really aim to conduct public procurement in accordance with the law and that this is really the most favourable thing for their local community.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44191	And Mrs. McNally. Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44192	Thank you, Chairman. Here's my colleague, counselor, I'll start with what you last said, it's in everyone's interest that public procurement be conducted in accordance with the law. However, in vain the implementation of the procurement in accordance with the law if this law is full of uncertainty and hollowness and indeed our public procurement system is so empty that it is doubtful whether it achieves its purpose. More trouble detection was given today through individual discussions and replicas than through what the ruling had ambition to put into this law. First, the fact that we have a simple supply that no one controls. Secondly, the fact that the commission is responding eventually to the appeal, if there is no appeal, we cannot even correct the irregularities. Third, there is a system of counselling that would provide a good basis for quality prepared public tenders and fourth, lack of confidence. Does your political party have the ambition to carry out a comparative analysis of how the public procurement system is arranged in well-functioning states?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44193	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44194	Thank you for asking, Your Honor. I happen to know how it was arranged out there since I was led by a large company in the Republic of Croatia and here, I know what's going on out there and what it looks like out there. I have to tell you, unfortunately, there's no big difference, but it's a different relationship. It's a different relationship, the legal regulations are different, so it limits them and directs them. Unfortunately, we don't have that. Everything you said, I stand behind it. So there are problems, we'll have a hard time solving problems unless we improve the laws. And the Law on Public Procurement and the Law that will allow for the control of these same procurements. Here, we have now been close to improving or improving this part of the State Public Procurement Commission, at least in this work concerning people, members of the procurement commission, I hope that through this and through the following activities, we will be able to improve both the full activities and the processes in the public procurement itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44195	Thank you very much, no more replicas. Now the time has come, in fact it's already been 15 minutes for an epidemiological break. I would suggest that after that break we go to the point of view and then we continue because we have three finals left, and we have the final opinion of the promoter, so now by 1 o'clock, by 13 o'clock we have a break. And open the windows. MEETING IN 12.46 HOURS We are continuing to discuss today's final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures and we are already in the final words. In front of the Centre and Voice Club, Mrs. GLAS will speak. Dalia Oreshkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44197	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for your honors and for your representatives. Here, it will soon be 2 hours, we are only on the first item of the agenda in which we are actually discussing amendments and amendments to the law, now I will strictly stick to what is the subject of the legislative amendments themselves, so something that we are well-conceived, well-organized state, perhaps in this law itself should not be solved. So here we are dealing with, if we are to strictly stick to agenda issues, status issues of DCOM members that actually put them within the framework of the rights and obligations of a state official. My thesis is that in normal, functionally well-designed countries we have one law in which these status issues are dealt with in the same way to all, so there would be no need to overwrite in 10, 20, 50 different laws exactly one of those same provisions. And now, given that this is a final presentation on behalf of the club, the logic of things requires that we somehow sum up everything else we talked about in this debate. Well, by the way, I'm going to look back on what Mr. Branko Bacic said that he was wondering, so how many personally political parties I was in. Of course it has nothing to do with the very point of the agenda, but when he asked, more or less all the time, I was the same, and I was in 10 or maybe I changed 10, the fact is, and it's quite certain that none of them were or will be convicted of corruption unlike HDZ. And the second thing he looked at is that my political rating is currently about 1%. Well, I'll say, better than that 1% rightly deserved mandate of the opposition parliamentary representative than 16.4% with how many percentages of the electoral body HDZ received power. So it's not a government that stems from any legitimacy, it can be considered more of a usurpation and occupation of power. And speaking of which, I have to say that these 1%, as regards knowledge of how to improve the anti-corruption system and what role the public procurement process control system plays in it, so I have more knowledge and more experience, not only of your 16.4%, but also of the 99 remaining 99. Why am I saying that? Because, for example, the Anti-Corruption Strategy for the period 2015 to 2020 has expired, the new is not even being prepared. In contrast, at the end of 2019, I referred this HS to a whole new draft, and we also addressed the the thesis ahead of the National Council for monitoring the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy to at least have some context and some framework for the issues that should be discussed so that the Commission's role in controlling public procurement procedures could be more effective and better, and this requires reform of electoral legislation, reform of territorial structure, strengthening the powers of preventive and control bodies, as well as the Commission for the control of public procurement procedures, and in particular the Commission for decision-making on conflict of interest, strengthening justice, strengthening the independence of the leaders in that judiciary and the last, full fiscal transparency that it requiress and the establishment of public registers currently in the Republic of Croatia. It's all one-sided, those 1% that Mr. Bacic is afraid of, and he's actually boasting that he'll never get a chance to enforce his laws. Of course. Because if my 1% had the chance to act as a government, then it would not have happened that in front of the HDZ Club on amendments to the law relating to the control of public procurement procedures Mr. Žarko Tušek, in public known as the gentleman they describe with the said "What would you be?" This is how you talk to Croatian citizens and voters when you talk about a system of control of the spending of public funds. What would you HDZ really be? The usurpers of this country forever? No, you won't. At some point in time, these 1% or I don't know what percentage other opposition MPs have, among them many political options and certainly have what good to contribute to the development of our beautiful political and economic system, to the opportunity to say "Thank you for your cooperation and goodbye". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44198	It is now up to Mr. Marija Selak Rasdic, who will represent the Club of Representatives of the Mostos and will speak finally of this law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44199	I'll be right back on the subject of public procurement. Finally, I will re-remember the words of my colleague, Boric, who said, we remember the time when the public procurement was gone. Perhaps someone cynical would also notice that with regret and nostalgia you remember these times, but it would again be a prerequisite that today we have a quality public procurement system that manages to implement in practice what public procurement should be. In this respect, regardless of the positive shifts highlighted in the 2019 Report or the fact that we are marked green, there are numerous improvements that may occur in order for the public procurement system to fully liven up. In fact, the public procurement system may be one of the most prostituted systems in Croatia at all. Its regulation, including hyperregulatory, did not lead to what it was supposed to serve, which is that we can choose an impartial, best bidder and therefore save the state money in a significant way for any job being done. Often, as much as in fear of such regulation, it goes towards prosaic and banal criteria, such as the cheapest offer, which do not respect the complexity of the public procurement system, so it may happen that it is not the least cheapest or not necessary and most favourable, because what is taken should be seen as useful in the longer time period in which it will be used, not exclusively as price data at the given time. All this indicates how complex the public procurement system is and how much it is necessary to explore the market before, and to know exactly what it is and what time period it will be used to even talk about the quality of the public procurement system. As for these concrete changes, of course I will regrettably conclude once again that we have not discussed the report I am talking about here in 2019. in order to have at all a quality debate on individual changes, in this case the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedure, and more than that, we should return to what we ourselves have set out in the Anti-Corruption Strategy, which is to regulate the overall legislative framework for the implementation of the public procurement procedure, which would allow for its better quality implementation in practice, and to what the above-mentioned report adds, means the Proposer here, which warns us that a number of smaller public procurement providers have major problems in implementing legislative practice in reality. However, we have not yet learned when we will really change the Law on Public Procurement to prevent these problems. We haven't even talked about these problems because we haven't talked about the report, and we'll obviously talk about it when it's unrelated to any law, in that sense in some way and unnecessary for discussion. As for the possible conflict of interest and these proposed legal changes, I consider it to be in the article. 7.d. St. 2. should be further regulated that this contract between the right to return to work in the private sector, so that the entity in which a member of the state commission and state has previously worked, and a member of the state commission and the employer that it is necessary to regulate it in a way that at least adds that sentence to suppress the conflict of interest in order to bear in mind how important it is because it is clear that there can be a conflict of interest if someone used to work for a private person and later might be able to determine which money to direct in the public procurement process. Also mentioned several times. 6. which refers to Art. 12a. It is necessary to regulate further by putting in place a public procurement procedure, i.e. permitting HS in the event of appointment or replacement of a member of the Commission and within a shorter period of 12 months. We should prevent any possible malfeasances related to the procurement process. One of these is a number of difficulties seen by a large number of errors that could be prevented by administrative supervision and education with an emphasis on administrative supervision. Therefore, before this assembly is a major task not only in this small part of the regulation of the rights of members of the state commission but in covering the whole procurement procedure that it is indeed, indeed, what its name says, which is public and transparent.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44200	Mr. Zeljko Pavić will represent the SDP's views on this law finally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44201	Dear Secretary, I have already said our position or party club in part in the opening debate on behalf of the club. What I'd like to mention, I didn't realize now, colleague Rasdic, but I'll try to say what we wanted this to be about this potential conflict of interest, but I'll do it a little later. It is that we believe that the rights of members of the state commission in this respect of the law are well defined, I think that everything that should have been defined in relation to their labour rights is fully defined, I don't think there are any objections. What remains of us is those obligations of members of the state commission, especially in the part of conflict of interest. In fact, we heard from the secretary of state both in a replica and in a direct conversation that a member of a commission who was employed by a legal person should actually be excluded from the procedure if that legal person becomes a party to the procedure before the public procurement commission. Now I didn't realize if you said it was supposed to be or if you thought it was meant somewhere else, somewhere in the law to do it. In fact, our idea that if the secretary agrees with this, if she thinks it would be good, that the amendment from the Proposer actually writes another sentence that if a legal person who, where a member of the State Commission has previously worked and intends to return to that job with that legal person, must actually be excluded from the procurement process. It's the only thing you'd do if that's what you wanted to say. Here, I apologize if I said it again, it wasn't intentional. Furthermore, we've talked a lot about public procurement, and I think we've turned our attention to Mrs. McNally. The secretaries and all those who are in public procurement or close to public procurement that some procedures need to be initiated, that we need to change things, that we still have a lot of work to do, if we really want this corruption and possible criminal activities to be reduced, or that in some way they disappear completely from, in the area of public procurement. We heard a lot of remarks, we had a lot of replicas about it, but when we talk about real practice then it seems a little different. I believe that with these few amendments and additions that were actually accepted after the first reading and a few additional additions, I believe that now, today has already been turned a few times by my colleague Bencic and my colleague Selak that changes should be made. Now, I've also drawn attention to this, and I think that with all these changes, we can actually say that this is a law that we can vote for and that the law has actually achieved the goal that was to achieve, which is actually to establish the rights and obligations of the members of the state commission, and the other obligations concerning public procurement and public procurement, we're going to solve this through some other legal frameworks in some future period. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44202	Thank you. We've got one breach from the Rules of Procedure. Maria Selak Rasudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44203	Art. 238, I know that this will be a replica, when I have no chance for her, and directly asked my colleague Pavić, I must say that we only thought of the same thing in a different way, and this is exactly what preventing conflicts of interest is about some private entity that a member of the commission used to work for, so some kind of exception, so I agree with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44204	I don't have a word. Since there is no word, I won't even give you a warning because you've consciously gone to the end of the debate, so yes, but it's not part of the discussion, not even part of the custom. I think I'm meeting this in my long-term work, which Mr. Prickin knows in this assembly, for the first time, that such an abuse of a conscious Rules of Procedure is being made. I mean, I don't have any words, I won't give you a warning. Mr. Goran Ivankovic, HDZ Representatives' Club, final.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44205	Thank you very much, Vice-President HS, the Honorable State Secretary, the Honorable Representatives and MPs. Here I am at the end of this debate about a law that is very important, it is important for both the state and local and regional self-government is something without which we cannot practically implement a single capital project that needs to be realised in the space of these JLS and of course everything that has been highlighted here in the debate is absolutely supported when it comes to the choice of people who will be the ones who will be watching that public procurement is being done in the way that it is expected of it. But every time I'm surprised at the amount of hatred of individual MPs and MPs towards this part of the assembly I come from, which is this part where the HDZ representatives sit. As far as I know these people, and I court myself to know them well, is that these are people that I've worked with before and most of all come as mayors and mayors of JLS and know well what public procurement is, the way public procurement is done, and how projects are realised so that the end of which they come independently is about the person, Dalmatia and Slavonia, Baranja or any other area, was successful, but the spear is thrown at this side because here are the biggest criminals of the Croatian state. And look now, well, great, everyone has the right to say what they think. And then there's an affair in the Croatian state that's on all the media and it's being talked about today. And they arrested one man, and he was in custody, and he left the prison, and did not mention him there, or Begonja, or Shaslin, or Tomislav Klaric, or Boric, but mentioned Dalia Oreshkovic. But she's just, and we're criminals and thieves. Well, you see, that's not good. We here need to pass a law that will equally protect absolutely everything, and above all the citizens who sent us to HS. So I'm saddened by the way things used to be discussed here, but, dear God, someone's got to kind of kick it out, and it's too often that I'd say it the wrong way. Therefore, here I can finally say that any debate that has been in favour of improvement when it comes to public procurement is absolutely welcome, but I cannot at all reconcile with the fact that all these honorable people sitting here, and most of them I say are both mayors and mayors, are experiencing insults that are mostly unfounded and are the fruit of some or some of their frustrations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44206	Mrs. Devereaux. Dalia Oreshkovic was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44207	Thank you, Chairman. He's been injured. 236, when a colleague says the opposition MPs express their hatred for HDZ, I think it is a violation of our dignity, of the sheer insult and demeaning of the citizens who chose us. We don't hate HDZ, we hate the way HDZ destroyed this country and we have the right and the duty to talk about it in HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44208	Thank you very much. Same thing I said before to Mrs. Devereaux. I'll tell you, Selak Rasudic. I will not warn you, for if you think that you are above this Rules of Procedure, you are wrong, you are wrong, too, and all those who, and all those who abuse, know that the debate is over. You're wrong because it's the law, but I'm not a moralist, and I'm not going to become a moralist. Mr Tomislav Klaric also has a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44209	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, but in part, you've partly referred to what I wanted... I'm just going to say that again in 238, she insulted the party when she says the way she destroyed this country, by making amends to my colleague, they don't hate those HDZ, they're basically jealous and addictive because the Croatian people trust HDZ when it's so much in power. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44210	Mr. Klaric, you did the same thing. I mean what it is, I think the whole people think it's a circus, but let them know who's contributing to it, let them know. Madam Secretary of State. What? ... Mrs Natasa Mikush Zigman, the secretary of state will have a final word on behalf of the motionary. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44211	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS. Appreciable MPs, esteemed MPs. Here's my thanks for the debate on these final amendments and additions to this law. It is debated how this usually happens when we talk about this subject inevitably extended to the issue of public procurement in general, which is as we know arranged by each other's regulations. I personally think that a number of quality proposals have been tabled in the debate which, therefore, the ministry from which I come, which is responsible for public procurement policy, should be seen and analysed in the context of and any amendments and additions to that law. But here I have to say, you're going to let me know that there's also a number and a flat-rate assessment that wasn't based on arguments and on the facts of statistics and a certain number of proposals that were already solved by the current legislative solution, and that's why I felt the need to finally address myself in this part. Through the Public Procurement Act, which is currently valid, which has been in force since 2017. We have indeed tried to install a series of mechanisms that ensure that this process is more transparent and efficient and that all participants involved are less administratively burdened. In terms of transparency, Croatia was mentioned consultations with potential bidders during the debate. What I would like to say here is that Croatia is, in fact, the only one of the EU member states that introduced this mechanism of mandatory consultations with potential bidders before the public procurement process is launched, and precisely in order to hear the voice of those interested in offering the procedure to correct any peas in the technical specification or possibly here, I will also say that perhaps in a certain direction towards certain bidders, so that the market has an opportunity to react to that. Statistics and practices indeed show as has been stated and in the debate that it is relatively little to be used, but I think that this private sector must be the one that will actually be given the opportunity to respond to the documentation at a very early stage before it is published, to take that opportunity then. And I will actually take this opportunity to publicly invite all those who want to participate in this process, to actually take advantage of this possibility because it is at their benefit. Furthermore, the whole procurement process takes place by electronic means, including the appeal procedure which has been a lot of talk here today. The appeal procedure is not mandatory as an electronic procedure, however, what we are planning to do in the next period is precisely through the upgrade of the electronic public procurement advertiser and through changes of course and normative nature to do the appeal procedure in full electronic, which will actually result in our assessments, so that within about seven days, the procurement process itself will be shortened in the administrative section for the connection of certain systems, electronic data transmission, and we also expect for the automatic rejection of complaints from those complainants that you have called in the debate to professional complainants who do not actually pay compensation for the appeal, and therefore the procedure is delayed. Therefore, in this case, without the payment of the complaint automatically, it would be possible to reject it electronically and, among other things, to contribute to better efficiency or speedy resolution of the procedure. On the subject of improvement, the proposal was presented and justified, therefore, there is indeed a need for continuous and continuous improvement in the public procurement segment, of all stakeholders, of stakeholders in the system, and I would say in particular to those who prepare and carry out the procedures of so-called public contracting authorities. What I have to say is that the public procurement system has been in practice since 2008. and has fully recovered since 2012. We today have 7,000 certified persons to conduct public procurement procedures and you know that the law itself does not allow any of the procedures to be carried out if at least one of the persons who is a member of the Board of Assessment offers is not certified through this system. So, the perfecting system exists it is used, of course it is again on all those who participate in doing so continuously and educated. And what I must say is that at EU level, often Croatia has just been recognised as a country that has done well in the segment of professionalisation, so the segment of improvement in the public procurement system and is also very advanced in the segment of digitalisation, i.e. electronic submission and evaluation of offers, including the appeal procedures that I have previously said. The Public Procurement System Authority within the Ministry of Economy provides support to contracting authorities in such a way as to issue opinions that were also discussed during the debate, criticism has been made that these opinions are not binding. It cannot be binding, so it is the ministry's task to interpret the law, the ministry's task is to give the best possible direction to public contracting authorities on how to act in a particular procedure. However, the contracting authority is responsible for its procurement procedures, which can best assess and decide what should be done with the basis and the opinion issued, but also with the basis of knowledge of the procurement process it implements. So the administration can't decide for him what appropriate public procurement is to be carried out. Furthermore, other mechanisms are available through which we are trying to support the participants in this process. We receive an e-mail enquiries to which it corresponds either on the same day or at the latest a day that follows if that inquiry has arrived in the late afternoon hours. So we can't talk about two weeks of waiting for answers to questions like this, it may have happened, but it certainly happened exceptionally. We answer some 3,000 questions a year via e-mail. There are also open telephone lines working on Tuesdays and Thursdays, so colleagues from our ministry respond to phone calls, provide advice, concrete information on how the law should be implemented, and we receive hundreds of phone calls. With regard to administrative oversight where the suggestion was to carry out administrative surveillance in the procurement procedures, it exists, so it is being carried out. The administration responsible for the public procurement system is precisely the one in which the supervisory procedures are carried out according to applications or by means of insight into the electronic advertiser and, where there has been a breach of the rules in public procurement, the ministry shall submit an indictment to the criminal court. Therefore, there are sanctions in the law which imply that those who have violated this law will be prosecuted and punished, and, on the other hand, if there has indeed been a more significant criminal injury and for this there are appropriate mechanisms through which persons who have committed this may and should be sanctioned. The sanction can't be sanctioned by the ministry, so there's a criminal investigation body, a criminal prosecution that's competent to do so, and we know how to deal with it further. And in the end, somehow I would like to conclude this, or maybe return to what I said that Croatia has often been recognised as a good example in the system and professionalisation and digitalisation of public procurement, and the SCOR of the European Commission on the internal market where Croatia has been green for the last two years, proves that we have made the shifts and that these shifts are positive, that they are going in a positive direction. In today's debate, it could somehow be concluded, or it could be asked, so how did the commission assess us green if this is really how we talked about it today? This does not mean that there is no problem, there is a problem, problems need to be solved, but my opinion is that they need to be discussed constructively and that in the same way and we can all solve them together. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44212	Thank you, too. Wait, you've got replicas. Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44213	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mikush Zigman. First of all, I want to thank you for this final presentation of yours, this was one of the better final presentations we heard in this meeting of HS, which means that you listened carefully to everything that was said during the debate, although much wider and much further than the amendments and additions of this law. I will stay with my position, and that is that we should have solved this topic in one special law, equivalent to all the officials, and in all the rest of the way, what the commission should do is not only solve it through this law, but we need to strengthen the complete system, so I hope that at one point your resolution ministry will come out with a comprehensive and stronger bill, that is the topic we discussed today.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44214	Thank you. Would you like to answer? ... Mr. Pavić. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44215	Dear secretary. Here you have answered almost all the questions that we have asked, all the criticisms that we have made except for criticism which, that is, the proposal that we have made by my colleague Rasdic and I, I hope you will appreciate that and that you will implement it through the amendments. And the second thing that made me happy in your discussion is that you said that you would fully inform the public procurement system. Why am I glad? It was an initiative we launched in 2014. Unfortunately, however, it was not accepted, and then it was going to be at least public announcements. It's been a while. We've come to where we've come from. And now that we have the information of this part of the public procurement, we have an opportunity to monitor the execution of public procurement. Why? We have, on the one hand, informed full public procurement, and on the other hand we have the obligation of all suppliers who are operating with the state and with the public administration to issue eCommands and there we will have accurate information about what is delivered and how it is delivered Then We shall see what is appointed and what is not appointed. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44216	Thank you very much, Mr. Pavić. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44217	Thank you very much. Your question of conflict of interest is that I did not answer that, however, in the opening statement, I referred to the fact that this issue has already been resolved by the Public Procurement Act, where it is understood that persons who decide on appeal proceedings come from a particular private company which is the applicant of the complaint are exempted from the procedure, this has also been resolved through the Administrative Procedure Act, and the basis of the provisions of this law that we are discussing today will be implemented through the internal acts of the State Commission. And eAccount is issued for all public procurement procedures, so all accounts resulting from these procedures are now issued in electronic form, already now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44218	Thank you. Mr. Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44219	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ma'am. Secretary of State. So this Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures is adopted as an instrument of anti-corruption effect which regulates their rights and obligations of their members of the Commission and we believe that because they are bound by the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, it was necessary to pass a law in which their rights and obligations are specified, as I said. If such a law were to be applied to the Commission itself for conflict of interest, there would probably not be a contract with JANAF and there would be no debates like we heard today.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44220	Thank you. Would you like to answer?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44221	No comment, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44222	- Mrs. Crescent. Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44223	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. In the debate today, it was mentioned that the Institute is not using the most economically favourable offers. I think it's used, only the public has to know that this institute is looking for additional criteria where it can happen that the price is much higher than the lowest price and then it happens very often that it's actually the subject of questioning, research, whether it's good, whether it's well estimated and then actually most of the cases happen to go on to choose the lowest price because then it doesn't cause such controversy. Here, maybe you'd like to explain that a little bit more.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44224	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44225	Thank you very much for this question, indeed, it is an important element of the Public Procurement Act. Namely, what Croatia has introduced since 2017 is exclusively the criterion of the most economically favourable offer, as the only criterion in the procurement procedures, and then the percentages can go between 10% and 90% when we look at quality compared to price. However, there are no longer percentages in which the price is exclusive and the only criterion. The most economically favourable offer, of course, is harder to define than the mathematical calculation itself and the lowest prices, however, if it is made in quality, it does bring about a better price ratio and the required quality, and, of course, it is necessary again and continuously to perfect and educate, how to do it well.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44226	Mr. Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44227	Dear Secretary of State, today's public debate could conclude that the situation is bad, and on the contrary, we who have been operating in public procurement for a number of years on the ground, see how much from, practically from the moon, the moon is getting more and more perfect. I would only make one suggestion, not about these changes now, but about the elimination of those who in some way in previous procurement or performance have not met the criteria or failed to do their job properly, still have a chance at new competitions to appear again and be selected as contractors. I think that should work out these criteria because there are a lot of big problems in the field, they always come up with some that get jobs with all the elements, and they haven't actually met the whole series of previous jobs, and we're forced to take them because of the rules of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44228	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44229	Thank you very much for asking. You probably think about those situations in which the offerer relies on the references of another bidder in terms of getting a certain job. This is possible under the law, it comes from the directive, so we must not prohibit it, however, what the contracting authority can do is in technical requirements for supply of offers, precise and detailed rules and references and experience of the bidders in such a way that those who do not have such experience can then be excluded from the procurement process. So that's all it means, of course, that there's a lot more work to be done to prepare the documentation itself, but I'd say that the documentation and preparation of the same in the procurement procedures is really crucial. It's that first key element.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44230	And finally, Mr. Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44231	Thank you very much. The public procurement system in the Republic of Croatia is visible through the fact that, in the first half, we are at the top of corruption and, of course, when we refer to EU directives, regulations, everything we prescribe here often because cosmetically certain changes, we always think of teleoperators, i.e. how hundreds of millions of kuna were forgiven in Croatia for the frequency of the coronary crisis, and cheaper phones, i.e. The services are, not cheaper for our citizens, which is not done in the EU, of course, also, with 5G network in Germany, charged 20 billion euros from teleoperators, while in Croatia they set up their infrastructure, base stations wherever they want. So we simply copy regulations and directives, and we are the most corrupt, and that is visible through telecommunications. How would you comment that one is worth it in Croatia and the other in Germany? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44232	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44233	Thank you very much, Mr. Bulj. It is not possible for one to be in Croatia, and the other in Germany, given that we are all in the same legal system and Croatia has determined, by its own definition, by entering the EU that they will accept, therefore, rules that apply there, or regulations that are in force and apply to the entire republic, for the whole EU. What you looked back at in the teleoperator section is probably a reduction in the fee for certain non-taxable duties, however, very often it was actually very often heard that, of course, it was necessary to reduce business costs for the private sector, so this is one of the fees that was reduced, so it is not the only one and there are many others, I'm sure there will be a lot more to talk about, and here, it seems to me personally that sending a message from the Parliament that Croatia is corrupt, perhaps Maybe it should be different. [[Thank you very much. Thank you.]] Here, that's my humble opinion. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44234	You have a breach of Mr. Bull's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44235	Thank you very much. He's been injured. 238 because it's simply true what I said. The most expensive teleoperate services are in the Republic of Croatia, and the biggest profit is teleoperate in Croatia, so the largest profit of 33% in other countries is somewhere below 20% in the EU, and only to set up base stations is no building permit in Croatia, which means that teleoperators have huge profits, and essentially dynasties The muscle controls it. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44236	Thanks, you can sit down, grade one, and I'm giving myself a heads-up because I didn't give three warnings that I was supposed to give. Thank you very much, thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 14:36 A.M.]] The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia in relation to Art. 172. 190. The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. With us again is State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development Mrs Natasa Mikush Zigman. Would you like to give an introductory explanation? Yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44259	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Appreciable MPs, esteemed SS representatives. There is a final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Competition before you in the second reading. The relevant law with its 11 sublegislative acts has already been significantly in line with the EU acquis, but it was necessary to take over the new acquis and also as a result of a little more than ten years of application of this law in practice, it was necessary to further regulate certain provisions. Directive 2019/1 of 11 December 2018 applies to the power of competition authorities of Member States to compete more effectively with competition rules and to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market of which Croatia is an integral part or member. The purpose of which the directive we call ECN+ should therefore be to ensure the independence of competition authorities and then sufficient resources for the exercise of their powers, to determine, or to establish, the minimum powers that those bodies must also have the possibility to impose fines and daily fines for designated infringements, all in order to ensure uniform and effective application of Articles. 101st and 102nd. Treaty on the Functioning of the EU. This final proposal for a law shall statusally designate the Competition Protection Agency as the national general regulatory authority responsible for this area and in all markets within the framework of the demarcation and competences laid down by law and the relevant EU regulations. In addition, this final proposal regulates the legal basis for calculating salaries for the president, vice-presidents and council members, since it has not been laid down by law so far, and this is proposed in a way that lays down a base for the calculation of salaries equal to the basis for the calculation of the salaries of state officials, and the coefficients will be determined by a decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to be published in the ‘National Journal’, so that the coefficient for the President of the Council cannot be greater than the coefficient for the Secretary of State. Also, the final draft of the law was arranged for the government of the Republic of Croatia to issue a public call in the process of proposing the president of councils and members. In order to implement this law, it will not be necessary to provide additional resources in the Republic of Croatia's budget. I would also like to point out that the legislator proposes the adoption of amendments and additions instead of the adoption of a new law, since the principle of banning retroactive application of AZTN law in the event of the adoption of a new regulation would not have the legal basis or the possibility to initiate and conduct proceedings against entrepreneurs who have severely violated competition in such a way as to conclude prohibited horizontal agreements or cartels prior to the entry into force of this new law. Why is that? In fact, the cartels are one of the most serious infringements of competition rights, which are generally revealed three to five years from the date or date of their conclusion. In the light of the above, such infringements of the law would remain largely unprocessed and unsanctioned. And for this very reason and other Member States, therefore not only Croatia but, for example, Germany and others, always bring amendments and additions to the applicable rules and, in the case of this regulation, we therefore propose amendments and additions instead of the new law. I will now briefly elaborate on the differences between the final draft laws in relation to the bill that was in the first reading in HS. Deleted. 34th as being excessive since the provisions relating to the AZTN work reports and the obligation to submit a report to HS once a year on its work and, in fact, the Parliament had the opportunity to hear it through the presentation of the deputy president of the AZTN Council of Ms Vesna Patrik, who is with me today, so the specific content of that report has also been regulated by the regulation, respectively. 11th, therefore, this Article shall be replaced by the following: The 34th deletes as unnecessary. Furthermore, the Art. In 47, the future AZTN is no longer able to deliver solutions that have been found to be non-infringing of competition, due to the correct observations made by the Council Regulation of 2003. Therefore, in the event that there are no legal assumptions for the further conduct of the AZTN procedure, it can only suspend the procedure and no longer make a solution to it. In the case of a Member The final proposal of the Law shall be added to the paragraph prescribed that the AZTN is independent in the purpose of spending the financial resources allocated to the exercise of its powers and all in order to ensure full harmonisation with the Article. 5.st. 3. The ECN+ Directive, however, should be said to be without question in any way and we fully adhere to the provisions of the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. Regulation (EU) No 515/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 (OJ L 348, 30.12.2013, p. 1). 22 of this final proposal, which shall be governed by the legal institute, has been amended in such a way that the AZTN, for the purpose of applying this law, will be authorised in the course of a prior examination of the situation on the relevant market, so before the opening of the procedure itself, but also during the written request procedure, to call for the hearing of representatives of entrepreneurs or representatives of associations of entrepreneurs or other legal persons or natural persons, if such persons may have information relevant to the application of the provisions of this law. In particular, instead of the word ‘employee’ in the first draft of the law which, in the final proposal, is now used by the word ‘representative’, since AZTN will normally invite legal representatives of entrepreneurs or legal representatives of the Association of Entrepreneurs or other private persons, or responsible persons in those entrepreneurs or associations. Next, in Art. The 26th final proposal shall be subject to the mandatory content of the legal institute under the term ‘notification of the preliminary facts in the procedure’. The party shall be entitled to submit observations and to submit additional evidence and witnesses, if any, within one month of the date of receipt of this notice. In the final proposal for a law, new items shall be added in this respect which, exceptionally in the event of a notice which has previously identified an injury due to non-compliance with AZTN's request for data collection or for non-response at the request of AZTN for a mandatory interview, such time limit shall be shortened by such parties for the delivery of written defences and shall be 15 days from the receipt of the notice. Why is that so arranged? In that case, the party may inform the AZTN of the reasons for which it has not acted upon the Agency’s request to provide documents or arguments for which it has not been able to access the mandatory conversation. Since it is not a complex matter, it is reasonable to set a shorter time limit, so this 15 - day deadline is set. Next, in Art. The 30th final draft of the law shall be amended by the title of the legal institute of the settlement in the procedures for the determination of the cartel against which the party is subject to proceedings in order to determine the conclusion of the prohibited horizontal agreement may submit to the AZTN a written proposal for a settlement, and shall do so no later than 30 days after the delivery of the notice of the preliminary facts in the procedure. Furthermore, the difference in the final draft of the law in relation to the bill is that the proposal for a settlement can only be submitted in the procedures of establishing cartels or secret cartels as the most serious infringements of competition law, since the public interest is the largest in that part, therefore, in sanctioning such most serious infringements, and precisely the recognition of one of the cartel participants that he has concluded with the other parties in the procedure the prohibited agreement significantly contributes to the economics and to the speedy conclusion of such proceedings. This final draft of the law has reduced the percentage of the reduction of the fine to a range of 10 to 20% and has been done on the basis of an analysis of the regulations and practices of other EU member states, as well as of the European Commission, which therefore acts in breach of competition rights, which already have a reduction range of 10% to 20%. Next up, Art. The 35th final proposal will further regulate that AZTN may give a daily penalty in cases where it is not acted on the request of AZTN or a solution in certain segments issued by the Agency, unless the entrepreneur responds to a mandatory conversation or interferes with the execution of the order of the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia on the conduct of an unannounced search. In these cases, therefore, the daily penalty is imposed, and that is when it is deemed that the daily penalty is proportionate to the severity and duration of the injury, or when it comes to the short duration of the injury, and therefore the statement of the daily penalty is reasonable and has a dissuasive effect and this is all in line again with Article. 16. Directive ECN+. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The 38th final proposal regulates that the decision to initiate the criminal proceedings shall be made by a State lawyer in accordance with the rules of criminal law of the Republic of Croatia. A State lawyer may decide not to initiate criminal proceedings or may propose to the competent court a mitigation of sanctions which should be imposed in criminal proceedings if he considers that the contribution of the person to whom this article relates in the detection of the cartel exceeds the interest of criminal prosecution or sanctioning of those persons. It was also necessary to comply with the provisions of Directive ECN+. And finally, in art. The 40th final proposal was prescribed that the action against AZTN's solution, which determines the violation of this law or Article. 101st and 102nd. The Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, which imposes a fine or a daily penalty, may be filed by an unsatisfactory party in the proceedings and an action against AZTN's solution suspending the proceedings by the party may also be brought by the applicant of the initiative or by the person whose AZTN decision establishes the same procedural rights as the applicant of the initiative itself. Dear MPs and MPs, thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44260	Thank you. You have some replicas, Mr. Bull's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44261	Thank you very much. State Secretary, the competition is also these changes you have mentioned now, so names are listed, and lipo hears this cartel, it is nice to hear, however, the fact that the competition in the Republic of Croatia literally does not exist. It is also monopolized on the economy and on agriculture, let alone corruptly and networked, and this is known. I can give you a few examples. An example of the construction of the highway of Split's iron mill has failed, and neither grama nor blanket is built in iron from Croatia but has been imported. So we can also talk about agriculture that the cartels have imported meanings of vermin within the ministry not only of the economy and have destroyed domestic production from agriculture to the economy so that we have to be much more productive, but in the field means we have to be much braver and allow both agriculture and the economy That it can survive here [[Intruder: Thank you.]] without those cartels. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44262	Answer if you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44263	Thank you very much, esteemed representative Bulj, so I cannot agree with the assessment that there is no competition in Croatia. Croatia is a market economy and precisely the work of the Competition Protection Agency or its employees and council members contributes to the effective removal and sanctioning of difficulties in the functioning of such a market or prohibited agreements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44264	Mrs. Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44265	On what basis and why is the Competition Protection Agency regulated as a general national regulatory body? Namely, the agency has existed since 1995 and has not since been legally designated as a regulatory body and has not prevented that body from exercising its powers under the law. It should be noted that the Agency is not a body authorised to bring legal acts which are general but are mainly limited to the adoption of individual legal acts in individual cases. Unlike the agencies in the Croatian legislation and legal order, there are legal persons who have been given the power to adopt general legal acts and sublegal acts which are the most recognizable, complex and legally most demanding authority that makes a body the regulator. So, where's it from now and why the agency regulator?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44266	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44267	Thank you very much for your question. For the reasons that, in fact, this regulation or proposal of the same status of the Agency is in line with the tasks that the Agency is actually carrying out on the market. And the agency actually has the power to ex ante determine structural measures for entrepreneurs prior to the implementation of the concentration, for example. sales of shares, business works, parts of companies. It shall, for all purposes, act for the purpose of removing the adverse effects of the prohibited agreements. Therefore, it is undeniable that it operates on the market, that it regulates the same market and that it can therefore be concluded that the agency is actually a general type regulator. Not sectoral, but general.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44268	Mr. Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44269	Thank you very much, Vice President. The adopted State Secretarys shall establish the infringements of the Law on the Protection of Competition for which a daily penalty may be imposed on an entrepreneur or an enterprise association of entrepreneurs and the terms and conditions and manner of payment of the daily penalty. You can explain exactly what that means exactly what it's about, what it's about.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44270	Here are your answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44271	Thank you very much. Now, I can't give you this information specifically about the amounts because I just don't know it, we can provide it to you as information, but the penalties are, of course, determined depending on the type of injury and depending on the income of entrepreneurs, always looking at the relevant market on which that entrepreneur operates. Therefore, depending on the size of the revenues collected on that market, the penalty is also determined. The daily penalties, as explained in the opening section, shall be imposed in the event of short-term infringements and where such daily injury, the daily penalty may have a deterrent effect or prevent further abuse of the rules.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44272	Mrs. Dragon.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44273	Dear Vice-President, the distinguished State Secretary in Article 30 of the final draft of the law reduces the fine in settlements ranging from 10% to 20%, while the bill plans 20% to 30%. Please, what caused the reduction of the fine in the settlement? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44274	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44275	I appreciate the question. This is a really important topic. In the first proposal, we have somehow prescribed that this reduction could range between 20% and 30%, however, with subsequent insight into the practice of other Member States and the regulations that are there, for example, in Hungary, the Czech Republic, Austria and France, Portugal, the usual reduction in fines ranged between 10% and 20% and even the issue and was raised in the debate on the draft law, and we have decided, in fact, to reduce that percentage.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44276	Mrs. Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44277	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, can you tell me why the deals are prescribed for cartels and secret cartels, not other violations of competition protection regulations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44278	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44279	I thank you for your question. It is, of course, one institute so to say and it is special in fact the Institute in segmental competition, but it is very common in the practice of the European Commission and it is prescribed for the reasons why it contributes in fact to the economics of the process. Because the party itself admits the injury, she is giving up challenging the agency's solution in court proceedings and in return has a chance to get a lower sentence. So, it's about an institute mainly used in the process of establishing cartels as a form of violation of competition rights that are the most severe, most serious injuries on the market and starting precisely from the fact that this is a new legal institute for Croatia that has yet to be brought to life in full application we decided in fact only for these most serious injuries to prescribe such a possibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44280	Mrs. Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44281	Thank you very much, Vice President. We see in our national legislation that Directive 2019/1 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December are being adopted in our national legislation. The purpose to achieve this Directive shall ensure the independence of the authorities responsible for protecting the competition of EU Member States, sufficient resources for the exercise of their powers, the minimum powers that these bodies must have, and the possibility to impose fines, daily fines for determining the infringement. What are your resources and are they sufficient?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44282	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44283	Well, perhaps different institutions would answer this question differently. Of course, we always feel that we need additional and sufficient resources. It is precisely the purpose of this Directive to enable stronger independence of the Agency itself, and also sufficient resources to carry out truly important tasks. If, then, we are talking about the most serious violations of competition rights, then we can say that there is a need to ensure a sufficient number of qualified and professional people. And here, I am sure that the colleagues and colleagues who are here with me today have such resources and that they will be able and based on this regulation to strengthen the additional and number of people and their quality in order to solve such tasks as successfully as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44284	Mrs. Devereaux. Mariana Balic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44285	I thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed secretary of state. Since the objective of applying equal and fair standards is to protect competition across the EU, cooperation with competition authorities is also important in this context. I would like to know how much AZTN as our national competition authority is involved or engaged in the European Competition Protection Network and how and how it cooperates with the European Commission? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44286	Thank you very much for your question. The Agency is extremely involved in cooperation with both the European Commission and other bodies operating in the field of competition through a special network, through the European Competition Protection Network, in particular in the case of parallel application of law, so when it comes to the parallel application of our national and Article regulations. 101st and 102nd. Treaty on the Functioning of the EU. On a weekly basis, information is exchanged, answers to requests from other bodies, and exchanges practices on a daily basis just so that this practice can be exchanged through the network and that decisions can then be made as high as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44287	Mrs. Devereaux. Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44288	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honors Secretary of State. Well, here's what I'm going to do about the question that my colleague Maximchuk mentioned and about the resources. Namely, art. 26a. has provided that the agency has a budget on its own, so is this, then, the possibility that it can further and employ, where necessary, more professionals and depending on what the situation is, in fact, with cases, with complaints and the like?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44289	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44290	Thank you very much for asking Commissioner Peric. The Agency, of course, can now spend its budget on purpose and on its own. We have introduced this provision in law for reasons to especially highlight this independence, and in accordance with the provisions of the directive as it requires it. However, of course, within the framework of its work, the Agency may, within the limits of its powers and the financial resources allocated to it, and in accordance with the Law on Planning and Implementation of the State Budget, employ people so as to enable it to exercise its powers. And we think, in fact, that the provisions of this law are going to add to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44291	Mrs. Devereaux. Jurician-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44292	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, the Secretary of State. Where the Agency finds in the procedure that there has been no injury to the competition, then the Agency shall not miss a solution. I think it would be very good given the applicants, and those who have been reported to have some kind of solution, a decision or any act that they can justify their legal conduct and work with.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44293	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44294	The abolition of the solution has actually been introduced into the law, i.e. that article has been abolished for the reason that that provision has been brought back into line with the provisions of the Directive. Namely, if parallel application of the right occurs when or when the Agency is acting according to the Article. 101st and 102nd. The Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, it suspends the procedure under this legislative proposal because the Commission can therefore decide on its part to continue the procedure and, in fact, by the basis of the 2003 Directive. it should, in practice, prove that the regulation should therefore be adopted in a way that does not make a solution but only suspends the procedure. In fact, we have adapted and ensured a higher degree of compliance with the EU-level regulations themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44295	Mr. Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44296	Thank you, Chairman. Respected State Secretary, which would be the meaning of competition, is specifically here in public procurement if two bidders are contacted, one of whom was or was still one of or the sole founder of another bidder? We have a similar example in EVOTV, which is 2. was owned by Croatian mail, today owned by Croatian Telecom, same as B.net owned by A1. Both, the second and the third and the fourth are on the market for citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44297	Thank you, too. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44298	Thank you very much for asking. It relates, on the one hand, to public procurement procedures and, on the other hand, to the takeover of food from companies or companies. If prohibited agreements or agreements exist in the public procurement segment, as I pointed out during the previous debate on the previous law, therefore the criminal provisions under which such prohibited agreements on the market are followed. And in terms of telecommunications and corporate takeover, here I would just, I couldn't talk much about it, but I'll just say in short that the agency is also working on cases in the sectoral area, even though there are some procedures in progress, but here I can't even know about them because I'm not solving them, and since they're not being able to talk about them more directly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44299	Mrs. Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44300	Thank you very much. So, even when we had this law in our first reading, and now in our second reading, we talked a little bit more about the subject of penitentiary or the subject of those who, without whom you could not at all determine that there were certain associations and certain things. That is now quite detailedly defined by this amendment and by supplementing the law. I wonder what the agency's experience is. So, you have some processes that I couldn't possibly know if someone wasn't telling you about. What experiences are they because it seems to me that this provision of Article 38, which is a state’s attorney, can decide not to initiate a criminal procedure very much related to people or companies who decide to point to a problem that is somehow protected. Are they protected enough and what experience the agency has to do with it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44301	Thank you, too. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44302	Thank you very much. The provision relating to this part of criminal law or the reference of a state attorney is actually new to the regulation. So I can't talk about experience in that sense. I believe that there was an opportunity through the report, through the report itself by the agency that was in the debate several days ago, so to gain insight into the work of the body, or into the work of the agency itself. And what I can only say in principle is that right through the penitents or through that instrument and the possibility of a settlement is that these most serious violations of competition rules are discovered in general quite a bit and too late, so I said 3 to 5 years after they were both committed and in fact and at the level of all EU member states, I don't think there's even one case that the cartel was discovered and sanctioned, and that this is the way he didn't reveal himself. So it wasn't someone who joined the cartel who joined the agency or a similar body. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] and asked for a settlement. [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44303	Mr. William Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44304	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, we have witnessed the Titanic conflict of the international and teleoperate houses in Croatia A1 has stopped broadcasting the N1 TV programme and if it will soon do so and Tcom will be proof that it is real to us all that it is a duopol or possible cartel or secret cartel, and in this case it is 101, 102 of the directive, respectively, but I think together it is 101, 102, where, among other things, it is spoken if it is proven that they can be taken 10% of the total income achieved at world level. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44305	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44306	Thank you very much for your question. Therefore, the Agency of course has its own procedure in which it is necessary first to determine the relevant market on which part of the undertakings are designated regardless of whether they are teleoperators or entrepreneurs in another sectoral area, and based, and after that, whether or not there have been infringements of competition rights. When you talk about revenue, or this percentage of 10% of the world's market total, that this is therefore the highest possible segment on which punishment can be determined. However, what is important to say is that, in each case, it is precisely the reason why the relevant authority of the market is set out in order to see which market the entrepreneur operates and how much of his revenues are on that market and then the penalty can be determined on the basis of this. So she's not, this is a theoretical possibility, but she's used in a way that determines where the entrepreneur actually works.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44307	Thank you very much. Mr. Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44308	Thank you, Vice President. The Registrar of State, in its explanation, through the allegations which you have mentioned regarding the prohibition of the conclusion of horizontal agreements and of this part where the parties may make their self-recognition for the conclusion of such an agreement, i.e. the contracts, but also the parties which refer to the proposals relating to the settlement itself but also the cartel process, I am interested in what is the matter with the parties in the procedure which do not submit proposals for a settlement or give up the settlement itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44309	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44310	Thank you very much. Therefore, in the case of comments, the application of the settlements as previously stated by a special institute in the competition law segment is always one party that submits such a proposal. In the event that the other parties involved in the joint, in such a prohibited agreement or cartel, in the event that they deny participation in the cartel and do not submit proposals for a settlement, the procedure shall continue in that case. It will be completed by adopting a solution to determine the injury and an appropriate fine will eventually be imposed. So it doesn't sanction the others who participated, it doesn't absorb the others who took part in the cartel from giving the sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44311	And finally Mrs. Nikola Baradic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44312	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The Honorable State Secretary is also on the trail of the colleague's question in the final draft of the law in Article 38. It was introduced that a state lawyer is making a decision to initiate criminal proceedings against certain persons in accordance with the rules of criminal law. Why is this introduced into a special law, and how will it apply in practice?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44313	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44314	Thank you very much for asking. In fact, if this were in a manner of teaching and in a debate so far or another replica, the State Attorney may decide to initiate criminal proceedings against persons referred to in Article 1(1). 65th, however, in accordance with the rules of criminal law of the Republic of Croatia and may propose not to initiate a criminal proceedings if it considers that the contribution or reduction of sanctions is greater than the interest of criminal prosecution, if it considers that the contribution to the detection of the cartel is greater than that of the criminal prosecution. And this is what we have also transposed into the final draft law requirements of art. 23. ECN+ Directives themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44315	Thank you very much. You have no more replicas available for now. Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? No, I don't. We're moving on to a debate. I'm opening a debate. The first is Mrs. Marija Selak Rasludic in front of the Club of Representatives of the Mosta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44316	My colleagues and colleagues. As a representative at HS, I would like first to remind why AZTN is important in the first place because today we regulate its status, and I would say that it is vitally important and important for all of our Croatian citizens. Namely, it is an agency in which reports can detect different irregularities on the Croatian market that concern our daily lives. For example, the Agency's report reveals that almost all trade chains in which we purchase goods like Plodine, Lidl, NTL, Kaufland, Fish, Ultra Gross, etc. they have irregularities in their business that lead to an unfair situation for those offering those goods on the market. It is also an agency that allows such things to be repaired by handing the report to HS. So here we are not dealing with something abstract but very concrete we are talking about an agency that may also play a crucial role in this case when it reveals, for example, cartels for the way Croatian entrepreneurs and Croatian markets function, which in particular has consequences for all of us who participate in the market if not as entrepreneurs then as users of different services. In that sense, as far as these legal changes are concerned, I want to talk about three things. The first is, what is the regulatory body at all, and why does the agency want to become a regulatory body? Secondly, what I find problematic in these legal changes, which is a mere non-critical translation, the copying of the directive instead of doing what is our legal obligation, which is the implementation of the directive in the spirit of our existing laws in Croatian legislation. And thirdly, a very important principle issue, and I will use a concrete example of a cartel in the Sibenik area dealing with the emptying of septic caves, the Agency's responsibilities in relation to the operation and responsibility of local self-government units. With this legislative proposal, AZTN defines itself as a general national regulatory body. However, AZTN does not regulate the regulations of any market, all the regulations in their section are passed by the Parliament and the Government. The definition of the agency as a regulatory body is a kind of precedent that opens Pandora's box where we can now have a situation that different other agencies also seek for themselves unwarranted, unfounded in the practice of regulatory body status. So my question is, what does the agency get by becoming a regulatory body if we have in mind that it exists since '95, that it started working in '97. And that since then she's been doing everything she's done, and she hasn't been a regulatory body, and that hasn't prevented her from exercising the powers laid down by law? Therefore, we have specific market regulators known to us as HNB or HANFA which have very broad regulatory powers and also have the power to adopt general legal acts, but the Agency does not have such powers, and neither is it the right regulatory body nor is it able to construct fiction in law. So why would the regulatory body, and in the future, if we let this happen, have a flood of different agencies that suddenly want to become a regulatory body? The second thing, the copying of the directive, the mere translation of something that does not exist in our legislative framework, has led to confusion in this legislative proposal, which is why I will propose certain amendments in order to bring what is wanted to be done with these legal amendments in line with the spirit of existing Croatian laws. For example, art. 2. states the notion unknown to Croatian legislation, society, parents, it needs to be replaced by the words of ruling societies. In fact, the term of the ruling society should be incorporated into the law instead of the parent society, since that term does not know Croatian legislation. Namely, the Company Act knows the terms and institutes of a ruling and dependent society while the Accounting Act knows the term of parent society. Directives should not be copied, Directives should be implemented, their content based on existing laws. It is also necessary in art. 8. To change the word contribution from the word giving because these are two different terms. Parafiscal donations, mandatory fees collected from natural and legal persons, and do not have the character of tax. It is similar with taxes to be introduced under the law and that in the event of non-payment they can be forced to charge. The difference between taxes and parafiscal taxes is that taxes do not have a predetermined purpose but are collected into a common fund or budget and are then determined as to what will be spent while the tax has been established in advance, for example. for social or health insurance. I'll submit the amendments to the article. 9, Art. 11 and 2 amendments to Art. 11. So, what I'm trying to say is that by non-critical copying and not only copying but also incorrect translation, we have adopted a confusing legislative proposal that needs to be further elaborated and in this sense I hope that these amendments, regardless of what they come from the opposition, will be adopted in order to have a quality legal framework that we won't have to correct again very soon in the future. And now I will relate to the third thing that I am most interested in and as far as Croatian citizens are concerned, on the sitting side, the responsibility of the agency, and on the other hand the responsibility of the units of local self-government. In this legislative amendment, one new institute of mandatory discussions is introduced and it is defined in Article 22, which sums up that the Agency is authorised, for the purpose of the application of this law, in the course of a previous examination of the situation on the relevant market, to call from hearings of representatives of entrepreneurs, other legal persons or natural persons, etc. What I am interested in is whether the agency will hold such hearings if the Agency also has the possibility to establish the legal responsibility of units of local self-government that have done certain procedures without, for example, not noticing, and should have noticed, therefore certain oversights of the distortion of competition, observed certain cartels rather than waiting for the agency to inform a certain natural person about it, so that only then the Agency would act. I'll be very specific. Therefore, in the vicinity of Sibenik and the city of Sibenik, the Competition Protection Agency established that five entrepreneurs from the wider Sibenik area in the 2019 report had concluded a prohibited agreement on the prices of drawback, export and disposal of feces from septic, collection and black pits and imposed an administrative and penalty measure of 131000 kuna. However, since this subject was particularly interesting to me because it is one service which is of particular importance for the entire coastal area and which is used by all citizens in the coastal area and to an insufficient extent, which is also an environmental problem, I have investigated the case further, to find out that it was a cartel that was in force from 2016 until 2019 until a natural person reported it, so the agency carried out the audits and eventually reached a verdict, or imposed a sentence. But what do we find in this reconnaissance? We discover that the town of Sibenik was familiar with the above case, that these five entrepreneurs applied to the city of Sibenik for concessions with the same prices, and apparently these competitions passed. Well, you don't have to be a genius to find out that something doesn't work if you get five of them at the same price. But apparently the local self-government unit didn't feel the duty to do anything, nor did the agency in any way penalize or warn the local self-government unit. It was only when the physical person reacted that we had an epilogue who confirmed that there was a cartel. In this regard, I do not know whether this institute is mandatory or whether it is to think about another institute, but it is necessary to establish the responsibility of other state and local entities that should also react, rather than waiting for an agency that is waiting for a natural person to report such a thing. So that's it. It is necessary to amend this law at the level of terms which cannot be translated unqualityly and prescribed by European legislation that it does not exist in Croatian legislation. It is necessary to establish the responsibility of the units of local self-government in relation to the responsibility of the Agency and it is necessary to review the status of the Agency as a regulatory body in order not to come into the situation of the opening of Pandora's box where tomorrow any agency will seek the same status without having to define it by its position in practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44317	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives will be the Croatian sovereigns on behalf of whom the respected representative Hrvoje Zekanovic will speak. He's gone? All right, he loses his right to speak, and then the next club will be the center and the GLAS on behalf of whom representative Anka Mrak-Taritash will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44318	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected State Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So, in the second reading, we have a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of Competition. It is a law that is basic from 2009 which was completed once in 2013. And now this amendment and the addition of the status agency is defined as the general, national, regulatory body responsible for the protection of competition in all markets within the framework of the delirquent and jurisdiction. And here we now mention certain regulations of the EU Council and the way it is coordinated. It is extremely important that the Agency act, it is extremely important to define different topics that have not been defined so far, and I will hold this debate in one part of the formal, and in the other part, what are formal things, and in the other part somehow fundamentally and fundamentally. We, through this amendment and the addition of the law, define the concept of the secret cartel and the body that the recipient of the request and the entrepreneurs and the way in which the legal instruments are defined, so these are mandatory talks, daily fines, unique instruments, settlements in the procedures of establishing both prohibited agreements and a number of other things. And I absolutely think you have to define that. What you need to explain must be done. What I think would be incomparably better, although the secretary of state in the opening section said why not, and that is, yes, so it's about the amendment and the addition that consists of 49 articles. Some experience when changes are so extensive and complemented that it would be a good new law, but I guess in the next changes and additions you'll decide on a new law. This law also has a part where we discussed the first item of the agenda today, then we talked about the work that you decide to do in the law for the simple reason why and therefore those who are at the head of the Agency are also people who are responsible for their work, or the Agency for their work responsible for this high house or Croatian Parliament. The Government of the Republic of Croatia publishes a public invitation to propose candidates for president and members of the Council, and they are elected by the Croatian Parliament and since we do not have it regulated in the regulation and I will repeat that sentence again in order to do well that it is in the Law to prevent conflicts of interest. You define it in this Law, because simply certain material rights or certain things must be defined. What is, of course, always causing certain attention, which is this content part, which is how you can get to the fact that someone has joined, that a secret cartel has been made, that this association has violated the competition, that it has concluded some kind of forbidden agreement, that it has misused the ruling position. And I understand that it's quite difficult, so you can have all the elements, you can see but you have to formally determine that. In order to formally establish this, this institute of penitents has proved to be incomparably better and it is somehow logical that through this amendment of the law, that is, through the regulation that we have some kind of a different relationship you have to do so. The problem is that horizontal agreement, that secret cartel how to get to the fact, how to get to the evidence, how to get to the data if you had someone who was inside, and that someone who was inside was unhappy with you doesn't point it out and it's good to sort of define it in more detail and to define it. What every time somehow seems to me to be a step out and it should be a step out. Often we have both first and second readings of the same bill. What we have in our first reading, we have in our second reading, no matter what the MPs point to, no matter what you do for the first and second reading, you go to all the bodies of the state administration, so all the ministries and the rest of it, somehow, and according to agreement, sometimes someone points to something, and you say I'll do it next time. Some time it's that, this one kind of gets over it. We have a difference between the first and second reading, and I appreciate that it's good, because if you don't do it now, we'd have to do it again, some kind of amendment of the law, because in applying it, we would still have a problem. And somehow I always appreciate it and it should be pointed out and said that's the way it is. In doing so, I will give you four articles. Article 12, and I found that very interesting when I read it, so you manage the budgets. No one else manages, but in Article 12, you specifically emphasized this and specifically stated it. And on one of the committees on which this law was on, I asked – what happened, which is the reason – we do not have it in any other law so as to say that you manage these budgets. You are a regulatory body, but no matter what, and then I got the answer that it's a alignment with the directive or that you're told it has to be okay. Then we have this article 30 where you cut that percentage of fines, and that's where you explain it well. So it has been reduced since the first draft of the law now goes from 10% to 20% because such a range in other Member States of the European Union with budget thinking would somehow have been good if it had remained the larger one. We'd be more useful, but I think we should take care of why something is called a dragon penalty. Because they're too big and when they're too big, then everyone's avoiding and paying. When something is less, it can be defined. By the provision of Article 36, you have equally told the infringement committed by the Association of Entrepreneurs or even its members that there cannot be more than 10% of the total income achieved at global level. I was interested in what this total income meant at the world level. Likewise, I think it was the Committee on Economy, not to think, but I'm sure, you said that you already have that experience today, and that you don't have that kind of problem, and that you can come to that. So, I'm absolutely sure when you have any regulation when you have it in place, then it's good to follow the application, and it's good that when we come with the amendment and the addition of certain regulations that we know why it's not because some directive said it, not because it's written somewhere, but that you're using the experience you've had and when we ask you on committees, that communication is much more direct than here at the plenary session, that then we get some kind of clear answer that it's based on experience, based on practice so far, based on what you had a problem because every law must somehow pass its own lives. Because we have laws that are perfectly written, which are perfectly defined, but when you come into practice and you see that one is paper and the other is practice. I like it very much when we have some changes to the law and we refer to the existing state. In addition, the provision of Article 38 which is particularly apostrophe, which is particularly emphasized by the role of a state lawyer who may decide not to initiate criminal proceedings or may propose to the competent court a mitigation of sanctions to be imposed in criminal proceedings if he considers that the contribution to the detection of the cartel exceeds the interest of prosecution. Now, it will be interesting to see how it will be in practice. It will be interesting to see what it means in practice, because this provision of the law is a newspaper and now you will actually be able to check and see what it is in practice. Indeed, there should be that fine line, or the fine difference between which is the basic interest. So, the basic interest is to determine that someone has secretly teamed up, it's a basic interest. Now, there will be interesting in practice to see and see if it will work that way because our experience with the judiciary and our experience with the State's Attorney's Office, which, of course, I don't mean the experience of Parliament, but I mean the experience of this country and of all of us isn't particularly commendable, but alive have been and seen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44319	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives will be that of the Homeland Movement, and the honourable representative Vesna Vucilović will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44320	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian National Assembly, the respected State Secretary with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. Another reading of this law brings some changes. Not too much, I would say, another harmonisation with the directive in order to strengthen this action of the National Competition Agency and to get all the powers and tools to carry out activities and the fact is that we will have to increase certain and financial and human resources in the Agency. This alignment with the directive, otherwise we have these transcriptions, maybe a little bit too much, but here they happen and what translations that are pretty weird because either it's translated literally or maybe the Google Translator tool was used, but put it aside now, that might be even a minor problem. Attention is drawn to the terms "repentant, mandatory conversations, unannounced searches", so it might be an impression that it is essentially a legal proposal that may refer to USKOK or to one of our FBIs, and if we look at what the Agency is up to and if we look at the 2019 Report, then we see that a cartel has been discovered in the Split area where the car schools agreed on the price and found that 5 entrepreneurs from the wider Sibenik area have concluded a forbidden agreement on the price of export-delivery services and the disposal of feces from the septic collection and black pits. There were, of course, other activities, but here were these two, kind of stuck to my eye, and I have to ask why the Agency isn't dealing with anyone, so-called. large players because we all know that there are market situations on our market where price and condition arrangements are possible because of a relatively small number of manufacturers, providers of certain products or services. There's a situation like that. Is there a possibility of a deal? There is, isn't there? Should she be investigated? Well, you probably should. Therefore, these instruments which these amendments and the amendments of the law bring, and concerning the penitent, informed conversations, are generally good and should be supported. But I have to express my doubts and I'm a little skeptical because these are very demanding situations and I'm skeptical not for no reason. If you open the daily newspaper today, then you'll find a few cases, I'll list two current ones. One refers to how companies got jobs in JANAF, basically buy an apartment or a car to me, to my kids, so you get a contract with JANAF, and if it's not a threat to the free market, then I really don't know what it is. The second example is probably even worse because of the will of the Croatian forests and the monopoly position of 280 workers will be out of work. So several companies that produce final products have not received a contract and cannot buy logs from the Croatian forests. Such behaviour by a state-owned company speaks very clearly of what the state thinks of the market, the market economy and the competition. In doing so, I must remind everyone that just now Croatian forests are a company with which there are numerous affairs and not only during HDZ but also, during the SDP and unfortunately, it is a company that is in some way the character of this corrupt, clientelistic duopolis that rules Croatia. So you might think that this is what we're discussing today, what's at the plenary session today, is basically just a fig leaf that's supposed to convince us that they're ruling and they're standing up for the market economy, and in reality it's going in that old, cadiya and shower, cadiya is judging you. The fact is that the country's impact on the economy is too high. In this epidemic, business is even bigger and free market, and it is not exactly something that we care about because many benefits, so the grants to selected entrepreneurs, direct, indirect support, through numerous programmes, which are again being decided by, so-called. the mother state, both at national, regional and local level, are our reality. It's nothing that can contribute to improving the game. So we can say that we need to be aware of the real situation that is far from what we call a market economy, what we should advocate and what we should build. We refer to the market and to the competition only when it comes to imported products of suspicious origin, even more questionable qualities sold at dumped prices, because that is the common market there is absolutely nothing. Let me remind you that this is why two sugars in Slavonia have been closed recently. 500 workers were out of work, only last year 555 workers from the processing industry ended up in the employment office in Osijek-Baranja County. There's nothing you can do, that market works. So, all this stuff that I've listed is really reporting to me a large dose of skepticism when it comes to the application of this law. Personally, we of the Homeland Movement hope that there will be as many penance as possible, as many mandatory conversations as possible, as many unannounced searches as possible, so that everything else is not just a dead letter on paper and that the application of the directive would not remain here is just some indication that something is going on, and that in reality everything remains the way it was. What is significant is the authority to impose administrative penalties or fines, it is a newspaper in this proposal because I need to point out that criminal courts have imposed those fines relatively rarely and in a very low amount. At least it has been a practice so far, it could be assumed that non-compliance with the provisions of the law can be implemented without any appropriate sanctions. It is crucial that the Agency obtains the necessary resources to implement what it receives through amendments and amendments to the law. And I have yet to point out that it's a priority in the work. Of course, the EU and the Commission advocate that the functioning of the internal market has a priority, but we also feel that we should not ignore our market that is far from perfecting but still needs to be done. And the more the agency is in charge of the implementation of the Law prohibiting unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain where a joint action is necessary not only of the agencies but also of the State Inspector, Ministry of Resort, Customs, Police, because without such inter-resorship cooperation, some quality, positive shifts and impacts can be difficult to obtain. I'll just remind you that according to the State Inspectorate's report, the market inspection found that every 4 supervised entities violated one of the regulations. That's quite a defeating figure. So it's one quite large number of entities that violates some of the regulations and de facto when it comes to unfair commercial practices definitely needs to strengthen activities because our farmers, our local producers who therefore give up production and especially in Slavonia and Baranja is crucial for numerous reasons, and one is that they would even keep people in that rural space. Now, I've gone a little wide, but it's just saying how important this agency is and how important it is. These changes and additions will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44321	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Damir Habian will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44322	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear State Secretary, Ms. Patrl, Deputy President of the Council with an associate, respected colleague and colleague here is the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Competition. This final bill introduces systemic changes in the existing legal framework that regulates competition matter, introduces new legal institutes that we have heard from the State Secretary himself, introduces new powers which are assigned to the Agency, which will certainly enable it to fight even more successfully against entrepreneurs who conclude forbidden agreements or cartels as well as entrepreneurs who abuse their ruling position. The amendments themselves are the result of transposition of Directive 2019/1 of the European Parliament and of the Council authorising the authorities of the Member States responsible for competition to more effectively implement competition rules and ensure the legal functioning of the internal market. In the first place, it should be stressed as an orderly area of competition is important for consumers, for entrepreneurs and for the economy as a whole. In this way, better supply and quality and lower product prices are also provided, and innovation ultimately has an overall impact on economic growth. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that The Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, or Articles 8 and 13 of the Competition Protection Act, which regulate the issue of prohibited agreements and the area of abuse of the ruling situation are public order and should be effectively applied throughout the EU. With regard to prohibited agreements, if companies were to agree on a reduction in competition instead of each other, there would definitely be a breach of the same conditions for all, and this would certainly have adverse consequences for consumers and companies. This is why all agreements between companies which aim to or result in distortions of competition and which could affect trade between Member States are prohibited. In view of the abuse of the ruling position, such behaviour is prohibited from EU competition law, and under the ruling position in this regard it is therefore meant to the economic power of a company that enables it to prevent an effective competition in the relevant markets by giving it a great opportunity to act independently against competitors. What is changed is this final proposal to amend the Competition Protection Act. First of all, it should be pointed out that the position of the agency is set up as a market regulator such as HERE, HACOM or HANFE, here it has been mentioned or warned that, if it is good for the agency to get such authority, that there is one of the regulators, so I would just like to make a brief reference to that part. So, you actually have some body designated as a regulatory body. So, exactly ex-ante regulation of the market is something that gives the body a name, epithet of regulators. Therefore, we all know that the agency has an ex-ante authority to determine structural measures for entrepreneurs, so before the implementation, for example, the concentration, so before the sale of the share, the part of the business of the company or the like. There are many examples in Croatian practice. We also know that the agency delivers certain expert opinions to sectoral regulators for individual, so markets such as HERA, such as HACOM. But what should also be pointed out are there for a whole number of years, therefore certain indications, i.e. warnings that exactly the Competition Protection Agency is one of the regulators on our market. So much for this part, I'm sorry there's no colleague Selak-Raspadic. I think that's what she looked back on in her debate. The second important newspaper and newspapers in relation to the first reading is the provision of Article 38 which has also been mentioned here, which is, in fact, the authority which allows the State's attorney to decide that he will not initiate criminal proceedings or to propose to the court the mitigation of sanctions that should be imposed in criminal proceedings and, if the latter considers that the contribution of the director, manager or other cartel employee exceeds the interest of criminal prosecution or sanctioning those persons. We believe that this newspaper will motivate the very persons who are mentioned, so in this article, to discover the cartel, and without fear of committing criminal proceedings against them. The Agency also receives new authority to reject the initiative to initiate the procedure if, after considering the initiative, the Agency considers that it is not a priority for resolution. Namely, the directive in question, which we transpose into national legislation, has just been laid down that the national administrative authorities in charge of competition should be able to set priorities for their procedures for the implementation of Articles 101 and 102. The Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, all in order to make effective use of its resources and to focus on preventing and eliminating anti-market behaviour that disrupts competition in the internal market. Also as a newspaper, the current article 65 is amended. The Law on the Protection of Competition, which prescribed the possibility of the release or reduction of the administrative penalty measure, is now under the proposal of a new law on fines. It is also a penitentiary institute that already exists in the current law, but the directive in question is also more detailedly being discussed by that institute. Namely, it should be mentioned exactly how this programme of repentance is one of the most important tools of the agency in the fight against cartels precisely because it is about forbidden agreements between, therefore, mutual competitors on the market, and they are in the vast majority of of of course secrets, so it is very difficult to find out without a penitent, or without someone who is actually a participant of such a cartel. The Agency should mention, therefore, in November 2010 and, when the Regulation on criteria for the imposition of administrative and criminal measures has entered into force, and in particular the Regulation on criteria for the release or reduction of administrative and criminal measures has been authorised to implement otherwise a penitentiary programme for cartel participants. Therefore, this newspaper is only actually working more closely on the already existing institute, and it is also authorised by the Agency to grant access to statements by the penitent entrepreneurs or proposals for settlement to parties in the procedure to which the statements and proposals for the settlement relate and for the purpose of achieving their defence rights in the procedure. In this way, we can actually say that there is a certain balance in the process itself. Also as a newspaper, the Institute of Negotiations is being introduced in the procedures for establishing prohibited agreements. In addition to all of this, we consider in advance that this institution will also affect the efficiency and economy of the procedure itself in front of the agency. In this amendment, it will be possible for the party against whom the Market Competition Act is based to conduct the procedure for the conclusion of the prohibited agreement to submit a written proposal to the settlement agency and within 30 days of the receipt of the notice of the preliminary facts in the procedure. In this way, it shall be possible for an undertaking against whom the procedure is conducted before the Agency to voluntarily admit the injury referred to in Article 8. Laws, i.e. Article 101. The Treaty on the Functioning of the EU and accepts, namely, a written statement that it will not dispute, or it will not press charges against the Agency's solution, and in return, if the Agency accepts that settlement proposal, it will reduce the amount of fines of between 10 and 20 % of the total amount to be raised to that entrepreneur without a proposal for a settlement. Here is also the first reading of changes in this valuecensus. So we had 20 to 30 percent. Now in this final proposal, we have 10 to 20% of the total. This was also about some nomotechnical solutions, so here I can announce two amendments in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club. One thing is, so it's also a nomotechnical nature. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 4 should therefore be amended in this part, i.e. the syntax where parents and their legal and economic followers are referred to. So instead, we propose this amendment so that it should be the society of the mother and her legal and economic followers. It is actually on the trail and practice of the European Court of Justice. So, if you look at these exact terms, so the mother and the daughter society also uses in the practice of the European Court. But if you look at both our legal theory and our legal practice, so the terms of society, mother and society's daughters are in great use for the difference here was one proposal of a ruling society and depending on the society that I don't think in this case can achieve the purpose of what this proposal really wanted to say, so I think this is a much better solution. It is also an amendment, so number two, which is purely technical in nature, i.e. correction in Article 43. Therefore, Article 75b is added. in paragraph 8, number 6 is replaced by the following: So it's a writing error. Number six needs to be replaced by nine. So it's about saying lapus chalami, or writing mistakes. Here that would actually be all in front of the club, and I can conclude that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support this final bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44323	Thank you. The next club of MPs will be the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Zeljko Pavić will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44324	The Honorable Chairman, respected secretaries with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. When we discussed the amendments and additions of the Competition Act in our first reading, we opened a number of topics, asked a number of questions through replicas, discussions on behalf of the club and through individual discussions and, as well as in most of the laws that we passed in this conference, and when amendments and additions applied to harmonisation with EU directives, we all agreed that this must be done because we are bound by signed agreements and contracts. We've always been asked whether there's room for yet another addition of that law that we actually edit this law in a way that includes articles that are specific to our laws and our terms? In these amendments and additions, we have 49 articles, which are really a lot to amend and supplement the law, and usually in the case of such extensive amendments and additions, a new law is written. But here in the introduction, the secretary told us that they decided to make a solution this time. In this Act, the Republic of Croatia will fulfil the obligation to transpose into Croatian competition legislation the EU Directive authorising the authorities of the Member States responsible for competition to implement competition rules more effectively and ensure the proper functioning of the internal market. By applying these provisions, the Competition Protection Agency has actually extended its powers, strengthens its role since AZTN is statusally designated as the national general regulatory body responsible for protecting competition in all markets. Many polemics were conducted around the penitent and their status, especially with regard to the release of the penitentiary from the payment of fines. That's what we had on the board. Namely, knowing our investigation system and witnessing multiple breakthroughs of investigative measures during certain investigations raises the question. Is it possible for measures to break through here and so on? The penitent shall receive information on the course of individual investigations and procedures in the control of competition, and thereafter in the course of any action or control that has not yet achieved the appropriate results of the submission of applications to AZTN and thus avoid punishment? I don't think it's because we've heard the AZTN report, we've read it, and we've seen that the AZTN is actually one of the role models of all the agencies that we've had the opportunity to track, so I believe it won't happen. The law regulates new legal institutes of daily fines, single instruments, settlements in the procedures of establishing prohibited agreements. The proposed AZTN law will be authorised prior to the initiation of the procedure under official duty to call for a mandatory interview for the purpose of hearing any worker, entrepreneur or association of entrepreneurs, any worker of other legal persons or any natural person if such person could have information relevant to the application of the provisions of this law. We believe that it is a good solution to give AZTN more power and that they can act independently in case they have indications of irregularities in the competition. The fact that I'm AZTN in your report at the Parliament about your work for... The year that he pointed out that the discovery of the cartel is extremely difficult and that the cartel is most often revealed by the reports of the penitent, is not very encouraging and does not give us the hope that the application of this law will suddenly increase the number of irregularities detected in the competition. [[You don't understand.]] However, we believe that by introducing new legal institutes and with the very possibility that AZTN will react to a different, faster and... the way, however, positive changes take place in the market itself and that potential secret cartel members will react differently to their behaviour so far. [[You don't understand.]] On the other hand, the penalties prescribed are in one part confusing. This applies in particular to penalties laid down in Article 36 concerning Article 64 of the existing law. The new item is 2nd and paragraph 5 is valid... The law. [[You don't understand.]] Article 2 provides for a penalty for the infringement committed by the Association of Entrepreneurs. For this infringement, it is prescribed that the maximum amount of fine that can be imposed on the association of entrepreneurs cannot in any event exceed 10% of the total income achieved at the global level of each member of the association operating on the market on which the infringement occurred by the association of entrepreneurs. This is where we're asked the question. Who, how and within what time will determine the income of those members at world level? Similarly, the law does not define a period for which total income is determined at the global level on the market in which the injury occurred. I believe there are models that can be identified from when the injury occurred, so I'm asking if I might get a later answer. Is the total income determined from the moment from which that injury was determined or for the entire period of action of an undertaking on that market, regardless of the fact that the other members of the association of entrepreneurs or perhaps part of them did not act on that market during some period? It's in the law not defined, so if you don't mind explaining it a little later. The provisions of Articles 37 and 38 of the Law which prescribe the release from payment of fines in the event that a member of the cartel repents, a participant of the prohibited horizontal cartel agreement or a secret cartel first informed the Agency of the prohibited horizontal agreement or secret cartel and provided the information, facts and evidence which enable the Agency to initiate the procedure and implement the target... search related to the secret cartel provided that the Agency has not yet had sufficient evidence to initiate the procedure and conduct the targeted unannounced search or has not yet... [[You don't understand.]] Such search or which, in the opinion of the Agency, is sufficient to determine the injury covered by the repentance programme, the possibility of attracting and agreeing cartel members and their responsible persons to report the existence and operation of the cartel shall be opened. [[You don't understand.]] In view of the fact given in the AZTN report that I have already mentioned, it is very difficult to detect cartel operations, we believe that this is a good mechanism to detect cartels and prevent unwanted occurrences in part of the competition and I can say that we welcome that AZTN is given greater authority, that AZTN is doing that part of the work provided for by this law and I hope that it will be successful in implementing that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44325	Thank you very much. Now that we're done with the clubs, it's been a long time, so we're gonna take a break to clear the hall. I'll see you again at 16.10. It's 4:01 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 16,13 HOURS]] Now we're going to individual debates and the first one will speak to the esteemed representative Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44327	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, the secretary of state with his associates, his associates. Here is another area today where we are essentially implementing the EU directive into our legislation. But I would say here about everything I'm going to say about this, about things that you're essentially going to say, for the first time, there's something listed in the way, from the cartel to the other things that happened in the competition. But within the EU, as we rewrite the directives, then we should be equal with the other EU members. I mentioned one example at first, these are teleopers where in the EU market the biggest profits are in the Republic of Croatia, the biggest profit, and we have the worst services, and that is why Croatia is the first for corruption. So the worst services give us teleopers on the EU market, and we have the worst Internet. Is in Croatia I have tried through legislation and your ministry and remained while there was the Law on Electronic Communications and is now in the procedure and in the past term and the Law on Construction that they must make this one, that they must pay just as in Slovenia the right way or the right service, which the teleoperators in the Republic do not do. In the Republic of Croatia, for example, in all EU countries, while we are on the same market, teleopers have to pay, when it comes to competition, they have to pay the right to service and road, they must also have a building permit, but in Croatia they don't need anything. So already if we implement, if we are referring to directives, then Croatia must be at least the same, not us being their trade chain or being an exploitation field of various companies. And that's why I said in the replica how it's possible that on the market, now it's going into place, it's going into the 5G grid, that Germany paid for it. that the teleoperator paid the state EUR 20 billion while the base stations, zero, are being set up in Croatia. These are questions if we are talking about the EU directive. Why is it that our prime minister, who is obviously in front of great influence, colleagues and colleagues, mostly from most of you, the Misetic Dynasty, is influenced by many companies that are operating here, teleoperators, mostly the strongest, is Deutsche Telecoma HT sister company, Hrvatski Telekom, which is why in the Republic of Croatia we are not equal in terms of talking about competition? Of course, I'll remember another example when we talk about the competition. At the time of the 2008-'09 crisis, at the time of the global EU crisis. We were then at the pre-accession she said she couldn't subsidize the point of a particular industry. Angela Merkel then subsidized the auto industry if she was aware if the car industry failed in Germany or if she experienced some kind of fall that she would lose her jobs. And then there was some kind of breathing shipbuilding inside of us, what it stole was, but it could have been subsidized, then they said no, there was some kind of job for some state that needed this construction of ships, they said no, you can't subsidize the pointal shipbuilding. So we're not sorry, and Angela Merkel is breaking those rules, of course not, the woman is fighting for the survival of the auto-industry food depends on both jobs and GDP and everything they have. Therefore, it is important for me to talk about the market or about agriculture, the same thing. We here GMO products on our shelves these cartels push, this push often products while our domestic products on the market don't have that option, while in other countries it allows local products to be agricultural on, on, on the shelves of their shops, we don't do that. So we within the EU are on my tail as far as competition is concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44328	Next, we have one replica, excuse me, distinguished MPs Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44329	Dear colleague Bulj, speaking of the competition lately we've had more opportunities. You often mentioned this example of Croatian telecommunications and our rights in relation to telecommunications in Croatia compared to the rest of Europe. Have you ever received a concrete answer from the ruling structures to your enquiries about our inequality and what do you think when we talk about the market who is the person who should give you that answer, or not to you, but to the Croatian citizens you represent here in the assembly?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44330	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44331	Yes, I asked one question to Prime Minister Plenkovic in the last term, until today I have not received answers, as well as that he will answer the Minister of Transport, it is a question of the right to pay for the right way or the right to serve on teleoperate while in Slovenia local communities and owners and private persons and physical recipients mean certain fees for this use of teleoperate, I have never received an answer. In addition to giving the laws in the procedure that must have a building permit to set up a base station, that they must pay the right way and that they have a limit on electromagnetic radiation and unfortunately did not accept most in the last term. But I expect it is now in the process of these laws and legislative changes and that it will accept, which is why, because the Misetic Dynasty has too much influence on the prime minister and on the teleoperators, and HACOM is working more for teleopers than protection as the regulatory body of our consumers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44332	Thank you. The next debate will be respected representatives of Marija Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44333	I'm going to go back to a few questions I was talking about on behalf of the club, but I'm going to deepen what I was talking about and ask some additional questions about these legal changes. As regards the status of regulators to be assigned to these legal amendments to the Agency, it should be noted that new concepts have emerged in the years that directly preceded the membership of the Republic of Croatia in the Croatian legal theory, which described individual legal entities with public authority. As a rule, it's about the legal persons of the agency type as so-called. independent regulators. Following the different requirements, the harmonisation of the legal order and the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the European legal order in Croatian legislation, the orderly and unequal establishment of individual legal entities with public authority, in which their legal status, level of independence and scope of power were regulated in different ways in each specific law. In this case, the legislator did not systematically regulate the essential assumptions and features by which a legal person with public authority could be considered an independent regulator. So two things should be said at the outset, we all want a strong and independent agency that will be able to act in a way that regulates the Croatian market. However, if we want to change its status or finally regulate it if it has been unrecognizable before then it is necessary to access it seriously in a systematic manner so that it is indeed in principle to regulate who is the regulator and who can be the regulator. So it must be known whether it's a person who writes sublegal acts, whether it's a person who has different other powers that would seem to be a general regulator here. Without such arrangements, it is really difficult to discuss the status of regulators and the status of regulators in Croatia seriously. The second thing I want to talk about is the new institution of mandatory talks, which is being introduced in these legislative amendments by Article 22. So, what he says, let's look at the meaning of these legal changes. So, first one can be found, and the cartel is extremely difficult to discover and it is important to note and the applications are mostly when we talk about unfair trading practices anonymously, which shows that we have a serious problem solving market irregularities. Mandatory talks give the agency additional authority to arrange this in a way that allows certain legal persons to call for a conversation. She's authorized to do that. Let's say as an informed conversation with the police, here's me personally to make it simple for the most of what he's doing. We have a vague provision that the request must be proportionate. This should be more clearly defined because the proportion here can also be subject to interpretation and must not be forced to admit the violation of this law. And persons are also obliged to respond to the Agency's request otherwise a provision on fines or daily fines within the meaning of this law may be applied. What does that mean? First, it does not matter how much punishment, fine or daily fine, there must be no arbitral treatment that should be clearly defined, so I guess for all the same punishment if they do not respond. Secondly, if you can't force a person in any way to give you a confession, which is why you call her for conversation, you need some additional information, you are now in a paradoxical situation to have an institution of mandatory conversation and that you will have a person who will stay at home and will not tell you anything financially, and a person who will walk to the agency and also won't tell you anything because you won't have to fine cash, and the result is ultimately the same. I quote this in order to remind myself that it is necessary, although this sounds good as some additional option that will improve the work of the agency and I hope that it will be in practice, that we should really consider the meaning of all the legal provisions that we are voting here and see if those in practice will help us solve the accumulated problems. The work of the agency is extremely important, affecting the lives of all Croatian citizens, and we know that consumer rights make us the worst in the EU. Therefore, we really need to concentrate on making quality legal changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44334	We have a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44335	Thank you very much. My colleague Selak, long ago at the beginning when I only came to the assembly in the first term, I asked the Minister of the Interior, and you mentioned the public authority. Public powers and monopoly, for example. The vehicle centre because they're absolutely the only ones who can do technical, stick a sticker, there they were, they're the founders of the former interior ministers, Sobolo, who's going to know what it is. They have public authority, is that a competition? They don't have competition in technical, which is called a vehicle centre, until today. I'm going to ask that question again to this minister. I didn't get an answer in which way, who owns the vehicle center. Is this the market, is it competition, is it better for our citizens that they do not have public authority, because this debate has some sense or sense of speech from the Centre for Vehicles of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44336	Thank you. Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44337	As a citizen, I am most troubled by the relationship between this agency and the local self-government units or any state institutions. The agencies are independent and it's important that they stay that way. However, those in their behaviour and the indication of unfair commercial practices or cartels we are talking about cannot replace the conduct of local self-government units. So, that case I'm referring to as a paradigm, if the local self-government unit fails to point out the obvious cartel that's visible in some kind of public tender where they agree on a single price for certain entrepreneurs and then get a concession tender, it should also be held accountable, not that it's not relevant to it until someone complains to the agency, and then the agency acts accordingly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44338	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44339	Dear colleague Selak Rasdic, you have made this very clear. I am quite interested in one principled level of your thinking. So you talked about unfair trade practices, so I'm quite interested in seeing, for example, during the crown that there were open chains that then exported a lot of money from Croatia to centres like Vienna, Italy, etc., and on the other hand, we closed our plates where our maids can sell products that were so diligently and zealously produced throughout the year. So I'm quite interested here is how you see this competition, where in some ways companies and companies are favored, so they don't even have a centre or centre in Croatia, and on the other hand, our peasants and our people who produce agricultural products in their OPGs are obstructed with these unfair practices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44340	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44341	The regulation of the market at a wider level, which is what you are asking about, is certainly one of the fundamental tasks of the competent authority. In that sense, in the first place, we should especially at a time of crisis that we could learn to bear in mind the principle of self-sufficiency. So what is particularly important to us is to be self-sufficient in this sense, so that we help our OPGs in their functioning and that they are and in an uninvisible position are competitive. During this crisis, the government enabled them to act in a way that remained open shopping centres, while making it difficult to access open-air markets and thus epidemiologically less risky than those same shopping malls. And what did we learn from that? We have learned that it is not about measures that are epidemiological, but political or financial.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44342	The next replica of the esteemed representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44343	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you mentioned in your discussion that nowhere in fact the positive regulations are defined how and how you gave the function of the regulatory body to certain bodies, so it's simply not true. You have a violation law where it clearly states which are so legal persons who have the status of an independent regulator. It is also specific laws that have given these bodies the property of an independent regulator. Also in your actual discussion when you spoke on behalf of the club you asked this question or you problemed the question of obtaining the properties of the regulator, so the question is actually how does a body get that property, why is it called the regulator. So it's this exenter market regulation that's one of the main characteristics of an agency getting the property of a regulator. And if you don't already believe me then and I said that in the debate on behalf of the club, you can trust the administrative scientists and the people who teach at the Faculty of Law in Zagreb who are just putting the Agency into one of the regulators.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44344	Thank you. Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44345	Yeah, they put it in the regulator, but it's not clear exactly what the criteria are for someone to be a regulator. If indeed the Agency which has been operating since 97, which has not been regulated as a regulator, then the failure is primarily on you, because the Agency has not received all the rights that it has had in this decades of work, and therefore it has violated the law because it has acted as a regulatory body and has not been defined as such. So I don't know why, then, since it's all clear to you and that you understand that the Agency is a regulator, you haven't even regulated it legally before. Either the Agency was in violation, or she didn't get the rights she legally needed all this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44346	Thank you. The next debate will be respected representatives of Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44347	Dear Vice President, the respected secretary of state with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. Despite the fact that some colleagues on what the Competition Protection Agency has and has done, we can determine that this Agency and its compliance with the ECN Plus Directive will be entered in the court register as a public institution, and the aim is indeed to be the national general regulatory body responsible for protecting competition in all markets. It is also very important to note that the status of employees, directors, their wages, rights, etc. is now regulated. and may, in part, agree that these relations and all these regulations can be determined in other ways so that they are actually applicable to other agencies or as we have discussed before. So, the Agency itself has introduced these new amendments, it has actually proposed some new legal institutes, and it is really very important that a new legal institute can be found, for example. the mandatory talks, then the daily fines, then the agreements in the cartel-determining and other instruments really work in such a way as to improve and significantly improve the quality of the procedures themselves. When we talk about the amendments in articles such as Article 17 of the Law, where Article 34 is deleted, these provisions are related to the report on the work and obligation of the AZTN to make commitments to the Croatian Parliament and are contained in Article 11 of this final draft law. In Article 24, what I said before is mentioned and prescribed a case where there are no legal assumptions for further conduct of the procedure and this agency itself can suspend the procedure. It is also important to mention Article 26 of the final proposal where, for the purpose of data collection or for the purpose of not giving up at the request of the Agency itself, a deadline shall be given to the parties for the delivery of the written defence within 15 days of receipt of the notification. Also, the amendment to Article 30 shows that the percentage of the reduction in fines to 10 to 20% is reduced to what was once up to 30% which is significant and thus is actually a harmonised range in countries, with EU Member States. Moreover, what is good is that Article 38 is also completed in a way that the State's attorney may decide not to initiate criminal proceedings or may propose to the competent court a mitigation of sanctions which should be imposed in criminal proceedings if he considers that the contribution to the detection of the cartel outweighs the interest of prosecution. Therefore, all these instruments and mechanisms that have been improved in this very law give the agency the opportunity and much greater opportunity to carry out the procedures itself, but thus improve certain mechanisms that can in this way affect all these and such prohibited horizontal agreements, etc. cartels that can and may be prevented or otherwise can be acted on and one way is to have insight into information if they have someone who wants to tell them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44348	We have a few replicas. The first one's a respected attorney, Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44349	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Peric, you said in your debate, but here is the aim of protecting competition is primarily to create equal conditions for all entrepreneurs competing in the market with price, quality, innovation of their products and contributing naturally to the development of the economy. The Agency is an independent regulatory national body that promotes competition culture. In your opinion, how important is the work of this agency, and how much does it contribute to its preventive action, not just by repressive action?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44350	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44351	Thank you very much. So I think that the agency is getting more and more, and so far there has been an important regulator, or an important institution that could influence and regulate certain relationships, and now with such a significant large market and a significant number of participants who appear here as European producers and suppliers, I also think that it has more and more importance and can act with these instruments that are consistent, it can do much to be market-related as high-quality as possible and to protect our consumer on our market.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44352	The next replica is the respected representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44353	Of course, we all agree on the need to regulate the Agency's powers in such a way that it can regulate the market in a better way because of that, ultimately, all of us as consumers, if not as entrepreneurs, will benefit from it. However, the agency is subordinated to the Croatian Parliament in this sense, it is the Croatian Parliament's duty to regulate its rights and obligations in quality. Therefore, my question concerns Article 11 of this Act which states that the Agency is authorised to set priorities in its work and in the event that it adopts an initiative to initiate the procedure under official duty within the meaning of this Act and Articles 101 and 102. This Decision shall So, what I'm interested in is, is it enough to say that the agency is authorized to set priorities or should we, as a Croatian Parliament, look for reasoned priorities?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44354	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44355	Yes, it may have been necessary to develop priorities that really mattered, and what actions the agency itself would have carried out as priority and perhaps would have been, perhaps it would have been channeled at that time in the sense that it really had to deal with those priorities set by the law, or the Croatian Parliament. However, if I look at it, I have not looked at these Articles 101 and 102, whether, the EU, whether it is defined there and here, I think that I should perhaps more precisely define what priorities should they be if they are not listed in the agreement itself or in the contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44356	There is also a respected representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44357	Thank you very much, Vice President. In your discussion, you also mentioned penalties, and before you a colleague spoke about a specific case from my Sibenik-Knin County, so here I would like to say a few words on the subject. Namely, I condemn any price bargaining or, as stated in the Agency's report, that in five entrepreneurs in our area, they have increased their prices for drawing, exporting and handling feces from septic, collection and black pits. However, there was also called the local self-government unit that allowed them to do so. However, I can say that in our county there are almost no municipalities and cities that are not in the process of building a disposal system, and here we have major problems. Simply in the tourist season, the number of citizens is increasing up to ten times and it is not possible to solve the problem with one vehicle, but it is called for for example by concessions for five vehicles and since each of the concessionaries has only one vehicle, then of course they apply five and here they have taken advantage of that possibility which is essentially for every conviction because they go to the harm of our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44358	Thank you. Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44359	Thank you very much. Yes, in fact, there was a direct effect on the market, i.e. the demand that they then exploited the situation, which is certainly not good, and perhaps it is actually the reporting of such a case that the Agency should verify and see what is happening and what makes it happen and in one way regulate that this service is not so expensive, i.e. to bring it into some contexts of normal, commercial business.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44360	Thank you. Representative Selak Rasludic has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44361	Article 238, so this was a replica to me in fact of what I was saying and this is about calling the local self-government unit what I think I should have done because it was five content identical offers that came to the competition of the city of Sibenik in 2016, and the city only at the request of the agency provided the requested information and did nothing on its own before the agency's request.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44362	Thank you. You have abused the Rules of Procedure which you are probably very aware of, so I am giving you a warning because it was not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Villa Matula. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44363	My colleagues and colleagues, I will talk about this Competition Protection Act, i.e. amendments and additions through two examples. I've already given an example in the line of honor to the secretary, but I'm still going to try to explain it a little bit. It is, in fact, that we are witnessing the conflict of media-teleoperate Titans, literally Titans, and now it is breaking over Croatia, that is, our consumers, our end customers. My friends tell me what it looks like when A1 calls you at home and when he offers you, it explains that you don't need an N1. And we don't have to imagine, it's not the N1 that united media group made up, it's designed by some of our journalists, and they're now going to be deprived of the agency's market, and they're not going to be able to protect it, even under this law and Article 101 and 102, which the colleague just mentioned is not an EU operating contract. Namely, it is possible, it is possible to protect as much as you claim it is impossible it is a matter of will. This summary, given that the prime minister doesn't have to send us this whole recovery and resilience plan, but that's the point. He won't send it to us. However, if we were to benefit from these laws that we have brought into line with European directives, then we would have the right power, then it would not be HDZ, which is a comparative agency of suppliers above all interests and, of course, that it cannot be the Agency for the Protection of Suppliers is not able to be independent, it has no adequate resources since 1997. You know as well as I do that as much as the Prime Minister claims you've been transformed, that you've been transformed by HDZ. You're still conceited foreign capital agents and that's what you're doing. And what that has to do with protecting the market, and now I'm going to tell it yet because of course N1 that's our journalists that you drove off HTV, our journalists who developed this form would be our journalists who work on the Labyrinth of course. But no, HTV made 10 million, that bright, huge studio like this. They complain about the cameramen, they have to come near you because they're just filming you, only you come in there and you know everything. 10 million kunas and the market, of course, that these journalists who work and the Labyrinth so that they can work on the market the same as the housing issue. There is no affordable apartment because the illegal laws that we have at least the percentage of long-term rental apartments that Europe has. That's it. You heard.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44364	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Goran Ivanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44365	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, Your Honor, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I'd say what we're discussing today is very important, the protection of the market I think is most important when it comes to the survival of a country. So what's market protection anyway? It says that the unlimited freedom of competition is not a guarantee of democracy and the development of an economic and social structure based on the right of each individual to launch its own entrepreneurial project, because in such a system the strongest benefit would be achieved by the strongest and strongest entrepreneurs who, after all, would be able to overcome the country itself by their own market power and influence. So a very serious topic, and I believe that here is a colleague of the Habian, who spoke in front of the Croatian Democratic Community Club about the amendments and the additions to this Law, may have been the best apostrophe to achieve these changes. I also agree with all other colleagues and colleagues who spoke today about the amendments and additions to this Act and mentioned unfair trade practices. Here is colleague Marijana Petir, who throughout her term of office, as far as I know, struggles with these very unfair commercial practices that significantly impoverish this entire area and inflicts great damage. So I think that the protection of the market for unfair trade practices that we must absolutely fight will make Croatia a better country. When we look at the law, when we see people teaming up in cartels, when we have something that's really more of a mob structure than normal, then we know what we're up against. I'm sure the Competition Protection Agency will choose the best people to know how to handle these things. But I also agree with all those who say that the Croatian judiciary must also play a big, big part in all this that these people must be absolutely prepared to deal with these things and that is something that I simply think is inevitable to happen in the time ahead. So here I am, in the end, not a legal expert, I am not a man who deals with this topic, but here as an ordinary citizen, as a man who has listened carefully to what happened today in the Croatian Parliament, I believe that this is a very serious topic and that it can significantly improve or ineffectively disrupt market relations in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. I'm sure by amending and supplementing this law we'll do this second one, that we'll improve the competition. It's all market today. We live in a world without which the market is practically ruthless and where we have to have the best among us to protect, in fact, the least that wants to be part of that market that wants to participate in a fair market game that can only guarantee that we will have a better, better state and that we will create conditions and conditions for all those who want to come to invest in Croatia to have the support of those who are most important to it, and that is the Agency for the Protection of Competition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44366	We have a few replicas. The first one's a respected representative of Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44367	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. You spoke to Agent Ivanovic about the problem of unfair commercial practice, which may be the most reflected in the agriculture sector, and then, of course, the farmers who often tell us that this very phenomenon of unfair commercial practices on them seems demotive and some of them are leaving agricultural production, and some who might decide to start production precisely because of the fear that these market conditions will be unfair and do not engage in agriculture. In this regard, we also expect the final proposal to amend and supplement the law on unfair commercial practice in the parliamentary procedure where we, as a committee, have made some suggestions on how to improve things and how to be more efficient. But what I wanted to ask you, do you think, through the experience you have as a member of the Committee on Agriculture, that there is still room for improving cooperation between certain state bodies, above all, the State Inspectorate and the Competition Protection Agency?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44368	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44369	Thank you very much. That's right. Without the cooperation of all the state bodies in charge of regulating this problem, we will not have what we want, and that is to reduce unwanted trade practices. Unfair trading practices have destroyed so many small OPGs that it's simply not normal. As we have already said several times here, and I will repeat once again, as we have had a pillar of shame for those who did not pay taxes to the Croatian State, so it would introduce a pillar of shame for all those who, through their unfair actions, destroyed small producers, small people who eventually went away to live somewhere because Croatia did not give them that security framework that we wanted. Therefore, all those who want better Croatia need to work together and we simply need to direct all state bodies to have fairer relations than they may now be on the market.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44370	The next replica is the esteemed representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44371	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I agree absolutely with you and with your observation that this is a very important topic, a very important area and I really want to refer to one part that we have had the opportunity to hear from you, but you have encouraged me to where it was actually said that in some way the agency does not work if I can say so much. So the case from 2019 was mentioned only that it was an example of the car school and the one from Sibenik. However, no one here has mentioned much in fact which is in fact the overall scope of the Agency's work, so from giving different opinions, from establishing unfair commercial practices, abuse of the ruling position of cartels, or secret agreements, solutions to rejection or determination, so concentration. So the scope of the job is really big. And I think that when we talk about the work of this agency, when we talk about new powers that the agency actually gets to talk about in some way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44372	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44373	Thank you very much. That's right, I said it in my presentation. It's a complex job whoever's a little, and even if you're not and like I'm not a legal expert myself, when I see what goes into the fight and market protection, then we can only find out that we really need the best. But it's not enough just for the agency to solve this problem, other institutions of the rule of law that have to be equally interested in solving this problem, and ultimately the secret service and the USKOK and the DORH and all those who deal with this kind of thing. So, of course, I agree with you that this supplement and the amendments to the laws that are important may improve the situation and make it better than it is now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44374	The next replica is the respected representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44375	Dear Vice-President, respected colleague Ivanovic is right on the trail of what we talked about earlier and what was replicated by counterpart Rasdic, actually looking at the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU 101 and 102 when it comes to priorities, then apparently the promoter felt that everything in the contract itself should not be repeated and that it did not need to be implemented further in our law. So there are certain priorities there, and I think that we can use it in parallel as well, given the membership we belong to.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44376	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44377	Thank you very much. I believe what you said that the promoter took into account what you were talking about, so maybe there was no need to copy what was already written there. But let's be honest, I think it's good that Croatia is a member of the EU. I think that this will make a significant contribution to better and fairer regulation of the market, and it is good that here we are through the EU Institute, and we are part of this common regulation and that we will thus create better conditions and preconditions for the competition in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44378	Thank you very much. The next debate will be a respected representative of Ankica Zmajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44379	Vice President, honorary secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Two months ago, we discussed in the first reading the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Competition, and on the basis of the discussion of the proposal of the Committee on Legislatives and by the Proposer himself, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the final proposal for the Law was no-technically completed. The Agency for the Protection of Competition is then granted independence in the purpose of spending its financial resources on the exercise of its powers. It shall be possible to suspend the procedure where there are no legal assumptions for the further conduct of the procedure, to reduce the time limits to the parties in the procedure for the delivery of written defences from the receipt of the notice from one month to 15 days. The fine of the settlements is reduced, and these are some new changes in relation to the bill. The final proposal for a law on amendments and additions will take over the new acquis of the EU and further edit of some provisions already in line with the EU acquis. The legal status of the Agency for the Protection of Competition shall be harmonised with the transactions actually carried out by the Agency. The Agency shall then be given additional independence with the exercise of powers and additional financial resources for qualified employees, i.e. human resources, technological and technical resources, shall be provided. The Agency shall be empowered to impose fines in order to implement the provisions more effectively and to register the Agency as a public institution. The aim of the law is to extend the Agency's powers as necessary, such as the important provisions governing the legal basis for the calculation of salaries for the president, vice president and members of the Council by laying down a basis as state officials have so far, which has not been prescribed. It is also very important that this final law prescribes greater transparency in the selection process of candidates for presidents and members of the Agency's Council through a public call issued by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. These amendments and additions to the law are absolutely necessary and justified, they have their own purpose and purpose and I therefore support and commend this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44380	Here's two replicas. She's the first to be respected representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44381	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, one of the most important tasks of the agency is the promotion of competition, the same conditions for all entrepreneurs on the market. The importance of the agency has already been highlighted by many of my predecessors in the debates, but my question goes to you. You're a longtime head of the municipality, and we know that local self-government units provide various services. Have you had any problems in your community so far about competition and your experience about it?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44382	Thank you very much, Mrs. Maximchuk. So as competition applies to local self-government units for their functioning, so far we have implemented various services and works and purchases means goods. We have not encountered any competition problems, and that is why we have not even cooperated with the Agency, which has been given a lot of authority to today's law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44383	The next replica is the distinguished representative Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44384	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. You spoke to Zmajic about the advantages this Law brings in the process of protecting competition. The fact is that we have made a number of progress in this segment, both when it comes to legislation and when it comes to practice. But I'm sure there's still a lot of work ahead of us. Somehow the most sensitive sector is agriculture, so since you come from Slavonia from the area where you meet farmers daily who are distressed by numerous problems and concerns, can you tell us whether through this law or through the Law on the control of unfair commercial practices that should be reached in the second reading in the Croatian Parliament contribute to improving the position of farmers in the food supply chain.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44385	Well, here's my colleague, Petir, and I can give you a concrete answer right now. It means exactly for farmers, for agricultural activity, because we know that this is on the ground so that the problem of this competition is and that large chains are a problem with smaller chains or small OPGs that do not make it to their market because of the disabling of large farms above them and I believe that this Law and this next law which we will have means disrespecting trade practice will contribute to protecting our small family farms and meaning their products.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44386	The next replica is the esteemed representative Branko Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44387	Thank you, Vice President. So, colleagues Zmajić, since you have long known how to manage the budget, and these amendments and additions to the law include the determination of the part relating to the self-intentional spending of the financial allocations. In the 2019 report, we see that the Agency’s state budget has been allocated to slightly more than 14 million kuna, with only 270 thousand kuna on its own. When we divide it into 52 employees, of which more than 80% is high professional equipment to assume what and how much remains for other material assets. So here's how long you've been running the budgets, do you think you should maybe allocate more resources to strengthen the Agency and further and humanely better teamed up?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44388	I'd like to thank my colleagues, Yurichev. So 80% of the funds go to employees, and 20% of the funds remain for tech work and technical obligations. I believe that this is a small amount to be available to the Agency, and since this Law allows the Agency to increase the financial resources for the Agency's work, I hope that this will be achieved, and they and this Law will mean they will be independent of the availability of these funds and they will know where they will spend it in a transparent, quality and meaningful way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44389	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44390	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, State Secretary, Deputy President of the Council, member of the Council, fellow Members and colleagues. Well, I am pleased that, after the 2003 Competition Agency Report, we have now changed the law because competition is one of the basic pillars of the protection of the common market of over 500 million people and is essentially one of the ways of protecting fundamental freedoms within the European Union. That is precisely why we saw it in the report's debate. It is necessary to further strengthen the Competition Agency and I am pleased that these amendments and transposition of the European Directive are doing just that. We've given support as Parliament's report. I believe that we will also give significant support to these amendments to the law. When we look at the key changes that are happening, the first and most fundamental thing I would like to point out is that AZTN will be a national regulatory body. It was a debate why it was not before because they were or were not prescribed criteria, but the basic Agency is already doing so and it is good to prescribe it and this is a good opportunity when we open the law to strengthen the independence of the institution to obtain the powers of a national regulatory body such as HERA, HACOM and that we are now going in this direction to contribute to strengthening the institution. The second thing I'd like to turn to in the debate is the question of the cartel. What I had the opportunity to hear about cartels and at law school and from colleagues and all basics, and to explain to our viewers what cartels are when individual entrepreneurs join together, for example. The auto school or septic caves that we heard and set out together to set the price. The key to the discovery of such cartels is that someone has tipped off, and I am pleased and commending that in these amendments of the Law we have a new institute for a settlement that will significantly facilitate the procedure because the settlement is equal to the admission of guilt. As soon as someone settles admits guilty of being a legal entity in the cartel, the Agency itself will be greatly relieved. It is also good to commend that in the second reading, i.e. in the final proposal that the reduction of penalties for those going into the settlement was placed within 10 to 20% and within the other Member States of the European Union. The next institute is a penitent. Since the Agency may prescribe penalties only for legal entities, the individual penalty remains the same in accordance with the Penal Code and it is precisely good that Article 38 leaves the possibility of a state lawyer to reduce or decide not to initiate proceedings in the matter of criminal liability of the penitent. In this way we will attract additional information in fact only the Agency has available when someone reports cartel cases. The third component he would strongly highlight is strengthening the Agency's human potential. We have already heard from colleagues that 52 employees, and we have put it in the report that we believe that additional employment is needed and that further strengthening and work of the Agency and the education of employees is necessary. The fourth component is the transparency of work. With the report we have and we're discussing in the House, I think it's a big step in choosing the President of the Governing Council through a public call and I think it's a very good signal and a step in transparency. Finally, let's do it again. The AZTN agency becomes a regulator in removing or showing the cartels new bargaining institutes, penitents, strengthening human potentials and increasing labour transparency, and I am therefore glad that we can support this law in this high. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44391	We have a few replicas. The first is a respected representative of Tomislav Okroša.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44392	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Pavic is before us the final proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of Competition. Directive 2019/1 EU of the Parliament and of the Council is transposed into national legislation. The purpose is to ensure independence in the work of the competition authorities responsible for the protection of competition for the Member States of the European Union. How much is the Agency engaged in the European Network and do you think it is working enough with the European Commission?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44393	Thank you very much. If I can answer, then the question is precisely because it is a matter of protecting the common market the reputation of the Agency that has in the Brooks is great. I really must commend the Agency's international cooperation. I know how busy you were at the conference that was about the presidency. We are also aware of epidemiological measures, but through this network, good experiences and practices in protecting competition can be changed, with other colleagues and regulatory bodies at European Union level, to see how they may have made some priorities or transposed the directives. So I think the Agency is very active here and I encourage them to continue to be present in Brussels. Co-operation with the Commission as far as I got the impression from the Commission is also excellent, so I commend the Ministry and the Agency.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44394	The next replica is the esteemed representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44395	Thank you, Chairman. You told your colleague in the statement that it was necessary to strengthen the Competition Protection Agency, that is correct, I agree. Before that, however, it should actually be strengthened or perhaps better said to create a free market. In the '90s, when we were creating an independent state, we chose a business-oriented market economy. The question is, is she real? In addition to what is written on paper only declared in reality, there is a continuation of a party oligarchy system in which entrepreneurs close to the current government are best placed on the market. And in decommissioning this system, the Agency is actually completely powerless. This law and the changes that are generally good will only come to the fullest of expressions when the radically created system which your authority or predecessor of the same party has designed is more or less always in force since the 1990s.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44396	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44397	Well, I'm sorry, colleague Oreshkovic, that you don't know so much about European legislation, that you don't know the processes of the European Union, is that we're not the market economy could not enter the common market. So that's not what we're saying. That's what Brussels said in 2013. Therefore, if it did not stand, we could not enter the European Union at all. I know how much the Agency has worked on the negotiations, how much we've had to take over the acquis in that chapter and the sector. So what you're saying shows the usual ignorance of European processes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44398	The next replica is the esteemed representative Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44399	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Coliar Pavić, of course, is very important to appreciate that Croatia as a Member State has access to over 500 million people's markets, that this is a market that is open to our entrepreneurs and manufacturers as well. But we are also the market for other Member States' products. I agree with you when you say that you need to strengthen the Agency's capacities, and that is certainly very important. But what I think is also needed to do, to recognize how politics through the creation of legislation can provide a stronger space for domestic producers and for domestic companies. What do you think may be the additional criteria for this to happen in the future?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44400	Thank you very much for asking. Well, you're absolutely right. And there are practices and other countries, and we can be innovative, I know that you're following the agriculture sector, we know from field to table. They can be regulated and for CO2 emissions, we know that we need to reduce CO2 emissions by 55% to 2030. The criteria of freshness can also be defined, the criteria of distance within which must be from field to table can be defined. Also in other sectors. So, there are models, we can be innovative, but we need to take a look at the practice. That is why it is also good that the agency is so networked in international activities to see what the more experienced member states have been doing on this issue. And when you come to Brussels, basically all the members are looking at their national interest, so do we. We should therefore be represented in Brussels and we should fight for our interests. And this government, I think, has shown it from the 24 and a half billion euros we got. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44401	The next replica is the esteemed representative of William Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44402	Dear Representative, neither I personally nor the Green-Left block are certainly people idealizing the market or fantasizing that only the market could solve all the problems. That certainly doesn't. And in that sense, regulation of the market is very important to us. When you talk about how impossible it is, almost impossible or very difficult to expose the cartels. Well, enough to have the experience that our citizen lost his nerve with any of these two large companies holding the duo sex in Croatia and when they could hardly wait for the end of that monster contract and went to another de facto it was the exact same thing. And the TV you're looking at is more interference than at the time when we had more of that snow and there was interference. We have that more often. Don't tell me the agency can't threaten them to regulate this distortion.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44403	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44404	Thank you very much. And my colleague Matula, neither you nor I are lawyers. But when I was in law school listening to both defenses and some PhDs in competition and cartels, that's what the legal profession says. When you listen to colleagues from the agency, when you listen to the experiences of other agencies within the EU, yes, it is very difficult to discover the cartels and yes, the main prerequisite is for a certain application to come into the agency. And that's what the legal profession says. The ways in which they are dealing with this are precisely examples of good practice and therefore we are transposing regulation here, and just to enable and facilitate the application again I commend that the settlement is a new instrument because the settlement requires recognition, so one of the parts of the cartel admits that it was created and was in the cartel and it will make it very easy to work the agency and make a solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44405	The next replica is the esteemed representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44406	Thank you. Well, here I would ask you the same class of what you said was hard to expose the cartels. It's hard actually to prove, so it's a fact. But when and what are the consequences for them? Here's an example. In 2015, I think it was the agency's decision that found that five sports bookies, so they made the forbidden contract, and between them are these biggest neighborhoods, Germania, First sports bookies, Super sport, etc. And they got administrative penalty measures totalling 9.7 million kuna. I'll tell you, for example, how much was it to you, what was the profit before tax last year of one of those bookies - 523 million kunas. Their income was over 800 million kuna, profit before taxing 523. So now you just tell me please tell me you're in their place, is it worth it to you? make a forbidden agreement? [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44407	So I know fellow Bencic from We can you want to introduce a social economy, that you want to destroy all entrepreneurs and everything. So, on the one hand, I need to, and I see, I don't know. I think that's what you want. You want all the parts of the economy destroyed, and let's say a good part of civil society is just being financed from games of chance from where you come from. So the amount of punishment prescribed is one of the major penalties prescribed. If we look at what the European Commission is doing for, let's say, and some of the technological divisions of the great penalty are being pointed out. But then it's also a question of parts of whether we're going to impose penalties according to property censorship, according to traffic. But it's a question of a broader debate that we need to conduct here in the Parliament, not just a discussion of the competition. And I'm sorry that you don't respect the market economy, but good.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44408	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. You're pulling back? Okay. Thank you. We've finished our individual debates. We're going to the final debate. The first is the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, the distinguished representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44409	Conclusions and I'd say the logic Mr. Pavic often applies to questions coming from the Green-left block at the very least amuses us to say. Because as you have concluded from the question that is legitimate, is the penalty, the total penalty that five bets of nine million kunas receive, and which at the same time some of them gain in hundreds of millions of kunas. Is that a dissuasive punishment? Here I'll ask you here. Please answer me if these are dissuasive penalties? Because if I were them, well, I wouldn't, because I couldn't be in their place because I would never do that. But someone who's in their place and who's interested in exclusively pure profits is worth giving him 50 million kunas to get 500 and make forbidden agreements from year to year, year to year because the fines are such that they're not dissuasive. And then, in vain, our efforts and investment in regulation and in capacity and in all cases, if ultimately those who cartel have penalties that are literally paid to them monthly to achieve the share in the market and the way and behaviour of the market as they have. So please don't talk to me about the market economy in Croatia made by HDZ. So we all know what this economy is about and who it depends on. So please, please, please talk to our entrepreneurs in the IT sector, so ask them, how successful do they report to public procurement tenders that the state or, say, the city of Zagreb? Never, never. And you know why? Because they know that they are pre-set and that it is the state that regulates who will be marketed and those who will benefit from it and those who do not, not the state but HDZ, those who are in power. Or in the case of Zagreb Bandic together with HDZ, or 365 now along with HDZ. Well, let's not, so we all know that's how it works. So don't make fools of the citizens. I'll give you more examples - telecoms. How does the market work with telecoms? It works so that someone or we who wants to watch certain television programs can't do it anymore, we can't even choose the operator that offers them because they are of common business interest to push the third one out. It's not telephony operators, it's software creators and telephone service providers. And they agreed on it, and that's how it's gonna be. And now I can't watch certain television at home anymore, because I don't even have anyone to win it from. It's the market you created. It's working great. Let's move on to the bank. Have you looked at the comparison recently, for example, did you look at the comparison of living credit conditions? Do you see any game in between interest rates, conditions, etc. Look at all the largest banks, they are not Croatian when they are not Croatian but they are operating in Croatia, look at their terms. Same, almost the same. Let's do the third thing, let's go. It's currently a big drugstore. It's a great market for us. We've set a maximum margin of eight and a half percent. 2014 In the years of the SDP, the government tried to differentiate margins in terms of the price of drugs. Did they make it? No, they finally caved in under the pressures of just as great drugs that got up on their feet and said they wouldn't work under those conditions. So eight and a half percent is worth the most expensive drugs and the cheapest ones, and we can't differentiate the rate because they said no. And we all say okay. So don't say we managed to regulate the market. Those who are great, who are giants, so telecommunications, banks, wholesales. So we're not a market for them, I keep telling you here because four and a half million people are not a market and we need to approach these things differently and plan them differently and set ourselves up differently. Because they don't see us as a serious market where they play by the rules, so they don't play by the rules and they never do.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44410	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure of the Honorable Representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44411	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Article 238 has been injured. And I think you should have warned your colleague Bencic. He has been insinuating for five minutes at the expense of the Croatian Democratic Union and has not stopped. And to that extent, it is unconvinced that even here is your colleague, Matula, smiling cynically, because he doesn't believe in these observations and nebuloses that he's been doing here for five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44412	Next violation of Rules of Procedure Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44413	Well, here I would ask...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44414	Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44415	It's buzz, I'm sorry. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44416	Thank you very much. He injured counterpart Bačić in Article 238, as it would be obvious that he would be more desirable for the opposition MPs to write what he would say about the competition. But this is democracy, and anything the opposition says would have to accept as their position, but you obviously don't accept. You guys still look like Shakespeare's behind you, but it's not.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44417	Next violation of the Rules of Procedure, Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44418	Here is a colleague, Bacic, who injured the Rules of Procedure when, as a violation of the Rules of Procedure, he stated that the injury was an insult to HDZ members. Still despite the fact that your President of the Parliament is acting truly absolute and has taken over the de facto of all the MPs here has not yet succeeded in putting a provision in the Rules of Procedure it is forbidden to insult HDZ representatives. So until it is in the Rules of Procedure, please do not complain about it because I have not offended you, nor have I used bad words to you. I was talking about facts and your responsibility to the political If it's an insult to you that you're in HDZ and sign up. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44419	I see it's the second show, now we'll start with the warnings. More Marko Pavić's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44420	Thank you very much. Article 238 has been injured. A colleague of Bencic not only insults all HDZ members, insults and MP Bačić. I know that you cannot reconcile with the results of the parliamentary elections and that you would like to be in power and that everything is terrible for you. But most citizens trust HDZ to run this country, here in the second term, and don't insult us either, give arguments, not labels like this. You're not gonna get away with it in this house.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44421	Okay. Let's move on. Final debate of the Centre and Voice Representatives Club. Dear Representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44422	Honored Chairman, fellow MPs and MPs. Well, it's good for the chairman that you've just given Mr. Pavic the final comment on the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. Because what would we do if it wasn't for his comments? Well, now that it's coming out, I'll escort it with words, so whatever I think about the platform we can and their economic views, I think you're under-incentived by free entrepreneurship, that you're not prone enough for them. But it certainly didn't destroy the entrepreneurs. If you ask any entrepreneurs who destroyed free entrepreneurship in Croatia, the answer would be one significant destroying by the HDZ. And secondly, what would Pavić have to talk about, don't interrupt me, if it wasn't for Brussels, if it wasn't for the parrot repeating numbers he doesn't even understand? And when we talk about a number he doesn't understand, which is about entrepreneurship, it's the percentage of those entrepreneurs in Croatia who don't deal with any state body or with the only public law firm. Such entrepreneurs are few. A specific number to Mr. Pavic, and I won't tell you HDZs either. It may move you to really get to work, so you find out some information on your own without someone whispering to you from Brussels. Because this is the real problem of Croatia and our state structure that we do not have free entrepreneurship which is not based on commercially inappropriate corrupt and other agreements with the party that is currently in power. And when we talk about other nebuloses, Mr. Bačić, the most nebulosis in this assembly says exactly your political option, and I must admit that you are an inexhaustible source of inspiration, so I will now say something to comment on what your Goran Ivankovic said. He said that we need a Competition Protection Agency to avoid creating entrepreneurs who, according to their business, are stronger than the state. Imagine, didn't we have a company like that? We had her, didn't we? Isn't that exactly the kind of company that's created with the help and the back of the country? Isn't it? So aren't we actually filling this company with public funds that have never been returned to public or state budget, and today they're adorning the pockets of those who through a group of Borg corrupt, corrupt, never-explored and never-convicted abducted our public property into other people's now foreign private pockets? I wish we had the right competition to create strong companies that, without corrupt practices, without the backdrops of politics, would create an anti- and capital stronger than the state, where happiness. But the way we're going to go, we're going to destroy this little market and the free economy that we have now. Thanks to whom, Mr. Bacic? Thanks to you. Without engaging in structural reforms, without breaking a corrupt hard system that generates too many units of local and regional self-government, too many public companies run by incompetent political administration very often with people bought, bought, false, unworthy diplomas, unfortunately the Agency for the Protection of Competition whose work can praise and assess good and will not have so much work. And now for the rest of my life, I have a little time left, and I'm going to say something about the Agency's work. I always advocate strong control and supervisory bodies, but I point out that these bodies must also play their own advisory role. One of the powers that the Agency has and does not use it is enough to give its opinion and suggestions. We are all aware of the facts of what is happening to cartels and inappropriate, unprincipled, illegal practice currently in the tele-operate system, Mr. Matula said something about it. The agency could say, although it is not directly related to the laws they apply, but it concerns the Law on Electronic Media and how long it actually takes to amend a bad, currently harmful provision in the law that has been the case since the first law was passed to this day. And why is that? Unfortunately, there is no N1 or owner of that group of its own in the prime minister's office, such as Telekom in the person Tena Misetic, to whisper what should or perhaps should not be changed in this particular case. You can see who benefits from such inappropriate and unnecessary relationships. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44423	Time. We have several injuries to the Rules of Procedure. The first is the distinguished representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44424	I refer to Article 238 because a colleague does not insult all MPs, especially HDZ, insults and all entrepreneurs because it has shown that she knows something about entrepreneurship. Did she create one company, did she run one company, and did she even live the life of the real sector where she could show and prove that she knew something about entrepreneurship? So bring your co-workers in line a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44425	Okay. It wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I give you a warning. The second violation of the Rules of Procedure is representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44426	Thank you very much, Vice President. A colleague of Oreskovic again injured Article 238 by not knowing which times but in this assembly. He doesn't know how to behave. He simply sees in us his inspiration daily and constantly forgets his actions, and we do not when he talks about entrepreneurship to find out in which way she as a lawyer came to sign a contract with a single company, with a man who is in custody today and finally tells us here in front of everyone what it was like and who he called and how this job went down and how that job went down.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44427	And a reminder to you. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure, Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44428	Thank you very much, Vice President. An article was injured, of course, in 238, I would ask for protection not only from being vice president but from all the vice presidents and presidents of the assembly to protect me from Mrs. Dalic himself, Oreshkovic because I was simply her eternal inspiration to twist everything I didn't say, which I didn't say, which I only remember is that when a man came out of prison, she first mentioned her name, I don't know why.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44429	And what do you have against that? You have a warning, too. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44430	Thank you, Chairman. A member of 238 has been injured by a single choir singing and insulting, but this time I will appeal to you and to all of your fellow presidents, give real protection to the HDZ people because there are so many of you, and I myself, you still consider yourself threatened by the words I give you. And give your colleague Ivanovic a deal with the lady who asked if I had achieved anything in the real sector. Yes, unlike most of you I am... That's what you said. You told me to get myself in line. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] No, no, no, no, I'm gonna get the state in line and get you all in line. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44431	You're alone, please don't turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44432	I'll sit down when I decide, Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44433	I give you a warning. It is, but please, you too have to stick to the Rules of Procedure. The following is the HDZ Representatives' Club, in the final debate, the distinguished representative Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44434	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear secretary of state, respected deputy directors with co-worker, colleague and colleague, after final colleague Oreshkovic, I just have to look back on a few things, I thought I'd start a little differently, but I need to look back at some of the incorrect things she's brought out here for the reason that she's diminished the work of the agency itself. And that's not the first time she's done it in her first reading, and I just can't agree with that. So, here it was said that the agency did not use it if I figured out my full powers, so it mentioned, for example, giving an opinion, so I recommend that when preparing for a second time to discuss the agency's website, it would look at how many opinions the agency only makes and prepares and what quality the opinion is. I don't think that's right. On the other hand, you mentioned the last time and, in this context, decisions before the High Court of Justice, I looked at little and the decisions of the High Court, I can also speak from experience, regularly all their decisions there pass unlike, say, certain decisions of the commission when you were at the head of which you recently fell, which I fear have far-reaching consequences for all of us. Here were the words, I am sorry that there is no colleague Selak Rasdic, who has troubled the issue of an independent regulator, so the bodies which are now, or the properties that the agency is now getting, so I will point out and mention it once again, since she said if the agency has not been the regulator until now whether she was in the sphere of actually committing a violation, no, she does not commit an offence. Thus, it has acted on positive regulations that have been in force so far, which are still in force. However, it would also be good to listen to what experts say especially administratively, I will not list them here, which are very clear among other things that the Competition Protection Agency is a regulator. So already before we actually define this by the provisions of this law that are now in force. What I said and in my debate obviously I have to repeat because my colleague Selak Rasdic said some things that are not standing again, and that is the question that some body determines that it has the capacity of regulators. So this is exactly the ex-ante regulation of the market. Therefore, the authority ex ante determine structural measures for entrepreneurs before, for example, the implementation of the concentration. Therefore, it sells shares, business works and the like. Also, in the existing law of law you have actually defined which are independent, independent regulators. Therefore, they are given this property by special laws, and it is incorrect and that claim that, in fact, nowhere in the positive regulations and in the Croatian legislation, the same is not defined. In conclusion, on behalf of the club, what I also want to say is that I think that these legal institutes that are being introduced, so from the settlement, from the penitents, from including the state attorney in the segment, so Article 38 of this final proposal will certainly improve and greatly enable the agency to continue its work so far very well in this way. And I'm going to look back at this, and I forgot what my colleague Bencic said, and she mentioned it in the context of an example that I have to admit that I don't think it's true because I'm speaking now from experience, so the procedure that I personally had to represent before the agency where it was very clearly requested that both the bill be delivered and the loss, that both the delivery and the income, or the presentation of the party's income, which was in the process, which was suspected of the cartel, was based on which the fine was determined, or then an administrative penalty measure of 10%. Therefore, the previous very good and thorough examinations which are incomes, i.e. the net profit of such companies, and hence the financial penalty is cut off. So it would be good if we were talking about this pay phone if we were telling the truth. Thank you very much, and ultimately, the HDZ Club will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44435	Dear Representative Dalia Oreskovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44436	Thank you. Article 238 of the 5th indentation of me as MPs was injured by my colleague, Habian, being false. So when I was talking about the agency's opinions, I was thinking that they just shut up the situation that we're dealing with with two telegraphers right now. And the sheer demeaning of my work is your thesis on the Committee for Conflict of Interest. So let me put it a fact. At the time of my term of office, and even after my term of office, the administrative courts consistently confirmed the decisions of the commission. What happened, it happened. that the Constitutional Court has brought down powers, not what the Commission has established in its [[Intruder: Time.]] Decisions. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44437	This was your replica and you get a second warning. Next final debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, MP Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44438	Thank you very much. We find the market competition really strange when they say that about the competition, about the agency, about AZTN when it tells HDZ that they are, and Boric is laughing at it, that we can or the opposition that they are destroying entrepreneurs. So who defends HGK, that leech of Croatian entrepreneurs, who defended, who protects that mastodon that destroys Croatian entrepreneurs, who? Well, you gentlemen. I can only say in person that this implementation of the EU Directive into Croatian competition legislation, we can talk about the agency, the regulator, but the fact is that, for example, telecommunications services in Croatia are the most expensive compared to the EU. We can talk about what we want now, and the biggest teleoperate profit in Croatia is 40% Deutsche Telekom while in Germany there is below 20%, where it comes from as it behaves as it pleases in Croatia, its facilities, its.../incomprehensible/... setting without permission of any kind. without a building permit and across the EU, a permit is required. Not only in the EU, but in Serbia, Montenegro, BiH and our neighbouring countries, it needs a building permit, but the Misetic dynasty requires Prime Minister Plenkovic to do so. And then, even in that competition, you're a respected secretary of state, you're in front of the government, you've forgiven the Covid crisis there's millions, hundreds of millions of kuna concession fees, but it's not reduced to the consumer and the people's price of telecommunications services, no, but you've got the biggest winner, the biggest profit, the margin they have in Europe is the teleoperator in Croatia. What's this about? I mentioned something else. The vehicle centre, the only one with public authority, the license from the MUP, do what they want, stick the price at the technical, sticker as much as they want, there's no other, so there's no competition. What are you doing this for? Is that a competition? Why is there no competition? Because former ministers, Sobol and the company of all ministers who have passed and your party presidents will not mention now that I have a match with him, so the government has fallen, so I won't mention it, but it's not the market. That's why I'm even in the essentials of the country's market to intervene, to our farmer and help him, to our entrepreneur, to our producers, I'm the first to do so so so you can declare me a socialist freely, but you're guessing with your cartels organized at JANAF clubs, I don't know the club Slovenska 9 and so on. So Minister Pavic, former of perfumes and expensive alcoholic beverages, mentioned that sentence, came before the 1.7.3 elections, four days before the elections in Sinj, and said 150m kuna intervention plan for Sinj and the Cetinski end. Do you know how much that's accomplished? Zero Kuna, worry about who's teaming up. That's how it's gonna be now. Or, for example, Now I'm called by the people of Makarska to come down.../incomprehensible/... to have the baggers come out of the trucks destroying, a little girl or a woman lay in front of a truck, sat down, I don't know the point that, I'll come to Makarska to visit it, I like.../incomprehensible/... you're such a gravedigger of the market, a concession that our maritime good, our beaches, our gold, where we'd tribals develop and the survival of our people, and you're supposed to be conducting green policies. The trucks are coming down, there's the mayor here, stop that destroying the mayor, rise from this frog's foot, don't let them do this to you down. Your beaches dig up, dig up.../incomprehensible/... well sung, you know what sand is rock-singed macaroni beaches. You know that well. So why did you kneel so much under Mato Junovic? I've got a 50-to-one lawsuit with him, and Sinj ruined this guy for me, and Sinj ruined it for me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44439	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, the Honorable representative of Jure Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44440	Dear President, Mr. Bulj has injured the Rules of Procedure more precisely Article 238. It's a two-time book. The first time he's made up the truth that we're destroying beaches in Makarska, means total fiction, the beach feels in accordance with the right and the law with the building permit, and the second time also what the river is, to bury the land, we've destroyed everything else, so man has no idea what he's talking about, constantly here we listen to him every day, it's good for us to listen to him. However, it is purely for the sake of the public [[Intruder: Time.]] That they know he's talking. [[Intruder: Time.]] It's not true. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44441	It's not common to Bulj, but you've done a breach of the Rules of Procedure because this was a replica, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you have a warning. The next final debate is the Club of Representatives of the SDP, and I apologize to the esteemed Mr. Pavic, just a little while, we have a violation of the Rules of Procedure by MP Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44442	Thank you very much. A colleague injures Rules of Procedure of Article 238, where he accuses me of telling the truth. Today, the girl sat in front of the truck not to pour land on our centuries-old beaches on the centuries-old island which is the symbol of your work, you mayor, which you are destroying. So you see what he's doing on Mate Junovic beach and his crew, they're digging you hundreds of thousands of feet away with pay and trucks. And I'll come and film you again, I've got the video. [[Intruder: Time.]] But I'll come down these days. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44443	You have a warning this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here's Honorable Representative Pavic, final debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44444	Dear President, here I am announcing to you that I will ask for a change of rules of procedure. Why? Because we're going to put one item in there that I'm allowed to pick up every time Pavić is called, and that's not me because it turns out that the whole opposition is against Pavic. And then people ask me what's going on? And Marco cooked the porridge, and went out of the assembly, and they all beat on me. I'm here, I'm sitting here listening to what's going on. So please, at least let me complain next time without harming the Rules of Procedure or without punishment, without warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44445	You got it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44446	Well, thank you. But, well, after all these peri-peti, I think we've also established the role of AZTN and the law that we've discussed today in the second reading. I hope we're all on the same track that what's stated in the law is okay, that we don't have any objections except what we've stated here. One part of what we have mentioned has already been explained in the break and has been distracted by the fact that there are other regulations that we did not know existed because they are not mentioned in the law anywhere, so we did not even know that there are provisions of those regulations. Unfortunately, I tried to find it on the Internet, but I didn't even find who wrote the regulations, so here it is, neither came the originals of that regulation now, but good things are clarifications. What was not clear is clear, it is also clear which period will determine those 10% of worldwide traffic or the world market. It is clear that AZTN has the role of regulators, it is clear that AZTN will determine most of these transactions correctly and honestly. What is not clear and what I did not find in the law is a question of new employment in AZTN. I don't know how many new employees it takes to enforce this law, I haven't come across it anywhere, it's hard for me to assess. I thought you'd answer the closing word so I could ask you in the replica, but here you were, so I answered that, so maybe I'll get some answers later. I think we'll all agree that the law is good, that the initiatives in the law are correct, that with these initiatives that we've given, which we've actually offered AZTN to try to get information from cartel members and from the responsible people that they'll be positive. I hope that the responsible persons who are in these legal persons will also realize that it is good to have some things reported because they will eventually be publicly announced that they were in the cartel and that they will then pay the fines. Now, what my colleague Bencic is saying is whether these fines will be debilitating or not is another pair of shoes. We'll see what happens. Unfortunately, here's what happens here with teleopers, we don't see penalties, if you notice there's not even an SLA actually between us and a teleoperator there's no Service level agreement that they would pay us some sort of fee when we're not able to, say, access the Internet or when we don't have the possibility of phoneing from their fixed number, and you know that it's happened several times now in the past few years, 2014-'15. We were actually separated from the world for almost six days. One part of Croatia for almost 6 days, one part of Croatia day and a half, now we were back a few weeks ago again we were shut off the internet and we received a fee nothing that is actually wrong, since we regularly pay them their bills. And on the other hand, unfortunately, we get what we get, the speeds we have, the service we have, and we can just keep quiet. So there's definitely some kind of conspiracy against us and against us, and I think we should do something about it. On the other hand, I warn of what awaits us, and these are gas companies. I will talk about this in the next debate, so please pay attention to what is happening to gas companies, which is currently happening as there has been a market liberalisation with 1.4 when small gas companies or small gas companies are purchased and small companies are taking over, when there will be 4 or 5 gas companies at the end of the market, we will see what gas prices will have and at which prices will be heated during the winter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44447	Thank you. We've exhausted the full debate with this. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We are going to the next item of the agenda, this is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Competition, and I am sorry, - Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Energy Efficiency Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No 101 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172 in conjunction with Article 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economy, the Committee on Environment and Nature Protection. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Secretary of State Ivo Milatić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44479	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs, you have the final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Energy Efficiency Act. The proposed amendments to the Energy Efficiency Act are harmonised, the law is aligned with the amendments to the EU energy efficiency regulatory framework resulting from the adoption of Directive 2018/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018 amending Directive 2012/27 on energy efficiency. That Directive establishes a common legal framework for the promotion of energy efficiency within the EU after 2020 when so-called the second period of cumulation of energy savings that Member States are required to achieve in the period from 2021 to 2030. Note, the first cumulative period was between 2014 and 2020 when the target of 20% reduction in energy consumption was set compared to the 2005 base year. In the second cumulative period which began in 1.1 years and lasted 10 years, the aim is to achieve at least 32.5% reduction in energy consumption compared to consumption in 2005 and also to prescribe the continuity of savings in the following cumulative periods since 2030. The law aims to ensure that in 2030, more than 8.23 million tonnes of equivalent primary energy oil and 6.85 million tonnes of equivalent oil in the final energy consumption will not be spent in the Republic of Croatia. In order to achieve this objective and the planned development of society, it will be necessary through all sectors and activities to implement the energy efficiency principle first. This principle, which is incorporated into the law, requires all economic activities and future projects to be monitored through the contribution of measures to improve energy efficiency. The principle aims to facilitate sustainable investment in energy, transport, construction, industry and others in terms of more efficient use of energy in all phases of the energy chain from production to final consumption. The application of the principle will separate the increase in energy consumption conditioned by intensifying the economic and social activities that have so far been the rule. This encourages technological development, innovation, digitisation and a series of activities that deliver higher income with the reduction of energy consumption. Following this Directive, the Directive stipulates that Member States are obliged to achieve energy savings in the final energy consumption and that a methodology for determining the amount of mandatory and cumulative energy savings to be achieved through a specific cumulation period is laid down. To calculate the average amount of new annual energy savings during the first cumulative period from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2020 is set at 1.5% of the average energy delivered to final customers in 2010, '11. and '12. The year was 54.25 Petasula or 1295.7 Kiloton of equivalent oil. The average amount of new annual energy savings in the period from 1 January 2021 to 31 December 2030 was set at 0.8% of the average final consumption in 2016, '17. And in '18. The year, calculated in an integrated national and energy and climate plan, is 125.33 Petadzula or 2993.7 Kiloton of equivalent oil. The amendments to the law have also been made in the sense that the basic document on saving and monitoring the effective implementation of the directive is an integrated national energy climate plan. The basis for this is also given in EU Regulation 2018/1999 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018 on the management of energy unions and climate action that prescribes the development of national energy efficiency action plans as well as an integral part of an integrated national energy and climate plan called NECP. The mandatory cumulative energy savings targets will be achieved through a combination of the energy efficiency obligation system and alternative policy measures as decided by the basic law of 2014. Through alternative policy measures, which will be implemented by the state and defined in the national energy and climate plan, include measures defined by the long-term strategy for the reconstruction of the national building fund by 2050. The potential for savings is estimated at around 30% of total necessary savings by 2030. In the mandatory savings system, energy subjects should achieve 70% of the total target by 2030. It is important to note that the cumulative effect of the savings achieved will also be monitored throughout the lifetime and that it will be regulated in the system of measurement and verification of savings. This amendment and supplementation of the law also transposes parts of the directives relating to consumer or consumer rights, which are linked to the measurement and calculation of energy consumption and hot water consumption, which in particular highlights the importance of the issue of individual measurement and calculation of heat consumption. In this respect, the removal and violation of EU law related to the non-transmission of the 2012 Energy Efficiency Directive, which refers to the fact that each separate building or building should have a thermal energy criterion. These measurements are also a prerequisite for further development and efficient use of heat and hot water in a particular building or building. Among the 2nd readings, the proposal was complemented in a way that recognised the energy solidarity of energy operators on the market. In view of the disaster, the affected areas in the Republic of Croatia need to be freed or reduced to bonds that have contributed to their financial resources to reduce energy poverty in the areas covered by the declaration of disaster. In this respect, the obligation of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund to cover energy savings achieved in this way is also extended, i.e. that, through the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, real and energy savings are achieved. And this is not only from the assets of the bond parties which have not fulfilled the obligation but from other revenues at their disposal, especially those of the emission units, because those assets must also be spent, by the Air Protection Act, among other things and to reduce energy poverty. Furthermore, regarding the area of public lighting, it is determined that the energy audits of public lighting are carried out by authorised electrical engineering engineers, and a new article has been added to the transitional and final provisions laying down that the approval solutions for the implementation of the energy review of public lighting have been issued in accordance with a specific regulation governing the energy inspection of the building and the energy certification before the entry into force of this law remain in force until the expiry of the time limit on which they are issued. Finally, a provision was added allowing the APN to carry out, on the basis of a written agreement or contract, a public procurement procedure for energy services in the building industry on behalf of and on behalf of companies established by the Republic of Croatia. I am also obliged to point out that the Legislative Committee is in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision setting out a clear basic criteria for the conclusion of the Energy Impact Treaty by the majority of the building's co-owners' votes, which is accounted for by co-owners' parts, which is in accordance with Article. 40. The law on ownership and other real rights, amendment to this law, and the same amendment by the government was adopted at today's session, and this, as such amendment, is also an integral part of this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44480	Here we have a few replicas, the first distinguished representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44481	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear Secretary of State, you have explained this bill to us very extensively. We see here that the directive establishes a common legal framework to promote energy efficiency within the EU. Energy efficiency is a strategic and energy union priority, and energy efficiency is a matter of people's consciousness. From the city where I come from, the town of Slavonski Brod, it is a very important topic with everything that relates to the quality of protection, air quality in Slavonski Brod. But what interests me when it comes to national energy efficiency action plans or integrated national climate plans, how does the Republic of Croatia stand when it comes to the application and implementation of them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44482	As regards the implementation and implementation of the same are our basic tasks, and this is what we have prescribed by law and regulation, that all alternative measures be included in the National Climate and Energy Plan and in the Building Recovery Plan, this long-term recovery plan of buildings, and we have clearly set out how we are actually going to achieve those 30% measures from alternative policy measures. We think that the plan is quite realistic and has a financial basis in several sources, so we are convinced that during this period we will achieve all our objectives and achieve unlike the previous period where in the alternative part we have little paused, and in the mandatory part, regardless of what later this one started to catch up with quite good its objectives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44483	Next replica, distinguished representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44484	Dear Secretary of State, the Honorable Vice President of the Assembly. So here's the first commendation that on the European Council in December we were one of the countries that really advocated raising carbon dioxide from 40% to 55% to 2030. Energy efficiency, that's a very important part. What is here and as a former minister who managed... I know with the competitiveness and cohesion programme how many billions of kunas have gone in this direction and how many opportunities we will have in the future perspective, especially as an instrument from the National Recovery Plan and from the multiannual financial framework to use energy efficiency for and rebuilding from the earthquakes of damaged areas. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So if you can tell us a little bit more about it, and thank you to the Ministry today we had a great meeting on the subject of electric cars that are also an important contribution to the development and reduction of carbon footprints of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44485	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44486	Thank you. As far as energy efficiency is concerned, it is clear that, in addition to the regular resources provided for in the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund from emissions and other revenue, significant funds are being planned and are listed in the National Recovery Plan, or in this proposal, which goes towards the Commission, according to final approval, and this is about amounts that go beyond billions and clearly that our emphasis by the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, and clearly in coordination with the Ministry of Spatial Arrangements which will do so, it must be essential in all respects of the construction part, from the part relating to isolation and all other materials that need to be installed plus energy efficiency in terms of heat and any other part and renewable energy sources. So the reconstruction has to be complete to really achieve the real effect of the whole job.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44487	The next replica is Honorable Representative Miro Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44488	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here's the law on energy efficiency in direct consumption was first passed in 2008, this law that we're talking about today is the heir to this law and somehow we're more and more moving towards talking about the savings quotas that we need to make, about the funds that we're going to invest in energy efficiency. But I'd look back on this part of the 13th year, and I think we've done a lot in that educational part. However, the question arises, what else can we do to challenge our citizens' awareness of energy efficiency that through what they are doing in their household and through what they are doing in their work, they are in fact encouraging even more savings, i.e. by encouraging them to build on equipment and materials that will contribute to our energy efficiency even greater.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44489	We are clear, in the educational work never enough to say the effort, so here I was drawn to the attention of reacting that the Committee on Legislatives has given three amendments to make it clear, the first applies to Article. 16 and 20, second in Art. 22 and 3 in Art. The 23rd that we accept and he's going in the same direction that you're now talking about, and that's that this decision-making process when it comes to energy efficiency on the buildings itself, it's as efficient and better as possible and as far as possible, and as far as this piece of education and work is concerned, it means an action which, by means of which we've predicted local self-government to bring its own plans, national, climate and legal and all new documents that are publicly available, which are in public debate and constantly refreshing these documents, I think we're going to help people understand how important this is.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44490	Next replica, distinguished representative Danica Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44491	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, in this final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Energy Efficiency Act, the topic that is particularly highlighted through changes and additions to this law is precisely energy poverty. From your opening work, it is obvious that it refers to the areas affected by disasters, what I am interested in and interested in, what about other areas of the Republic of Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44492	Thank you. We in law have further highlighted the area affected by disasters but this does not mean that we have excluded other areas. It is clear that in the law we have generally referred to energy poverty and we have further apostrophyd the areas affected by the disaster, clearly that this refers to the entire area of the Republic of Croatia and through the Energy Savings Regulation, it will be clearly stimulated by all those energy suppliers who will in any way invest in energy poverty that will clearly turn that part into energy that will then be saved and this real savings will make a fund through alternative policy measures. So we're heading towards stimulating the subjects, the obligers, to help the citizens reduce their energy poverty.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44493	Next replica, the esteemed representative of Tulio Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44494	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, you said in the introduction that this Energy Efficiency Act, we are harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation and that's okay. The framework of measures is established, meaning to promote this energy efficiency, for the period from 2021 to 2030 through our integrated national energy plan. And we have great documents, all the nice pistachios, Europe has written us a European green plan, we have recently brought to Parliament a Energy Development Strategy by 2030, but what bothers me is the realization and implementation of all these measures. So, we are now passing a new law whether we have nothing from the ministry or from the fund results that we have achieved and we have also been committed to the EU what we have done precisely in energy efficiency from 2014 to 2020, I think we should draw the line and give a report where we are today on those results that [[Santer Invader: Time.]] We were expecting it. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44495	As for what we have achieved, clearly, these are all measurable results, they are recorded, they are notified to the European Commission, they are in our SMIV, for the purposes of which we can deliver to you as a ministry and exactly where we are now in the situation. We have not achieved all our objectives in the past period, so it is also important that this law is stimulated in this way because we have in the past period, so regardless of the fact that at the end of that period we have gone into mandatory schemes, we have managed to save through mandatory schemes rather than through any alternative policy measures that have been made since the end of 2020. This is proof that in this law we have gone to 70% of mandatory schemes and 30% of alternative policy measures, it is quite a guarantee according to our estimates and calculations that without any problem we will achieve our goals. And that's why we're convinced that this is all on time right now and that it's going to go in the right direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44496	The next replica, the esteemed representative of Zvonimir Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44497	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State. My question goes more in the direction of energy restoration of buildings. My question is this, so what did you do, or what control mechanisms did you take, for example, for buildings that have a bad structure? So, there are already many examples, so buildings that are also in Zagreb, in Petrinja where energy efficiency has been made, which is very commendable, is that, if we are going to save some energy savings, however, the earthquake itself has shown that these buildings have collapsed, for example the X. gymnasium or, say, public institutions in Petrinja itself. So we are quite interested in the fact that the European Directive 2018, 844, also speaks of a seismic restoration that should precede the very energy recovery and the efficiency of the building itself, so we are interested in what we have done on this matter, for example, one Italy, has something called the White Paper that solves it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44498	As far as these future activities are concerned, and this is the use of the National Recovery Plan from the National Plan to rebuild the affected areas, in all the talks and in all the programs that we have written together with the spatial arrangement and vice versa, in each and every one of us talking to the Commission, there has always been a clear emphasis that there is no sense of energy restoring the building that is now affected by the earthquake and has had some problems and she has not had any problems, too, if all this is not restored together. So, the plan to be a complete construction reconstruction in the future, energy in terms of isolation and everything else, and essentially not just clean insulation, windows, doors, roofs, and heat and possibly renewable energy sources, means complete reconstruction, and I agree with you that without that, it doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44499	The next replica, the distinguished representative of Tomislav Okroša.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44500	Thank you, Vice President of HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State. The final draft of the law amending and supplementing the Energy Efficiency Act was introduced in relation to the proposal for a law laying down that the financial resources to the parties representing reduced income and used for the purpose of reducing energy poverty in households, as well as for helping households in the event of a declaration of disaster, will be considered to be a reduction in the obligations of the parties to the bonds. I'm curious about how and how it's supposed to be regulated by the law?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44501	This is meant to be regulated by the rules that exist now, based on the existing law, which will only be changed in part in that part, which means that on every invested kuna, or kilowatt of energy that will be recalculated, the bond party has the right to reject it from the base on which it is liable to pay a pension for a non-fulfillment, i.e. to account for the party's bonds to meet the savings, and we will, as I said earlier, for that amount of energy that we have physically recognised there, and in fact we have recognised the cost that someone has made for our citizen, we will be able to recalculate that cost into energy, save through alternative policy measures, through the Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund, by opening up through the law the possibility that more resources can be used for that savings.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44502	The next replica is the esteemed representative Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44503	Thank you very much, Vice President of HS, Mr Secretary of State. You said that ambitious targets, when it comes to energy efficiency, will try to meet under the motto "Energy Efficiency First", which should somehow direct us that indeed the Ministry is planning to focus seriously on this job which is not only an EU commitment but is actually necessary when we look into practice, we need to make greater efforts to achieve greater energy efficiency. What I'm interested in is how does the Ministry plan to include more in this process domestic industry, domestic producers, domestic materials? In particular, I mean the installation of wood, for example, where to achieve, not only greater energy efficiency but also contributes to the opening of green jobs, especially in rural areas, where we know that our goal is to keep people, and that requires this one business activity?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44504	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44505	So we think that the economy, or our domestic economy, is going to get involved in all this because it's clear, first of all, the goal of the state is clear, all the plans have been made by me, in time because we're only at the beginning of this period. It's pretty clear the amounts we're dealing with right now. We have communicated all of this with the interested public, especially the Chamber of Commerce, the Association of Employers and others, who should communicate with the economy and report to the same economy what is coming. We are aware of the fact that the problem of the number of employees that will arise when this massive renovation takes place, especially in this part of which the Ministry of Spatial Planning will work will probably be a problem, but in advance we warn because the fact is that Croatia has to count on this part of energy efficiency to have serious businesses and we keep mentioning and trying to sensitise the public, I think that we will also succeed because, funds exist, so let the future exist for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44506	The next replica, distinguished representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44507	My dear secretary, I think it has long been realized that neither the implementation of this law nor the satisfaction of the demands we have made in the integrated national energy and... for the Republic of Croatia it will not be possible to achieve without local self-government and therefore the units of local self-government and their representatives were involved in the production of documentation, they were involved in the signing of the declaration of... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] , they were involved in various seminars, in training, to actually realize what to do and how to do. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, we are also aware that there is one part of local self-government that has no money and that simply some things can't be implemented because credits don't help either, since they don't have where to pay back, there is no source to repay these loans. You mentioned that there are some funds in the Fund, probably also in the budget, there are likely to be some funds at EU level that will be grants. Are there funds for such local self-governments, which have no money, to which aid should be given free of charge?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44508	Absolutely that there are funds, I think I've made myself clear. What you mentioned, so that's all, all the activities that local self-government has been doing so far, were activities on alternative policy measures that were in this previous period. As I pointed out and, as we have pointed out in the law, we continue to go with alternative policy measures because we count that they will be a smaller part since there is simply one limited capacity, but all local self-governments that have quality programs and their plans make quality, we give them agreement on plans. In the event that they do not have enough resources, there will clearly be significant resources that will be in both the national recovery plan and these funds, which will be planned for the next 7 years in the regular fund, the regular funds of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund. It is clear that we are counting on one part of these obligations of local self-government being financed by the state and it is in our interest to make it happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44509	The next replica is the distinguished representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44510	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, the same question is here that no funds have been planned for the implementation of this law. I also asked at first reading why this is so since we seem to have a level of consciousness and expertise and education, first of all, people who will be in charge of implementing this law, not at the level necessary for the successful implementation of this law, i.e. this is one of the strategic laws of the Republic of Croatia, important for the future, for the development of Croatia, and it is particularly important to educate people, educate young people at all levels, this programme of integration of renewable energy sources into all schools, kindergartens, hospitals, buildings of public purposes, so not all stories are aware of some kind of façade or window care. So, I'm worried that you didn't predict the means to implement this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44511	No, I'd just correct you if I could. The law clearly states that no additional appropriations are needed, this does not mean that the funds are not foreseen. So the budget is made for each budget year plus the projection for the next 2nd year, all together 3rd year. So what we now have in the Croatian state budget in the positions of the Environment Fund, in the positions of the Ministry of Economy, in the positions of the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Energy Efficiency, in the positions of Croatia, this agency for the promotion of agriculture because there is also one part of the effectiveness that goes through these programmes. So there are significant funds that we think are sufficient for this year plus the resources of the National Recovery Plan when they are confirmed by the commission are still additional funds. That's why we said there isn't, we always have to show by the finances that we don't need an extra one from this budget that's now in force, and it certainly has enough hundreds of millions of kuna funds for this, this purpose.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44512	Thank you, Secretary of State. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No one's answering, then we're going to the club debate, the first club's a representative of the Most, the distinguished representative of the Zvonimir Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44513	Dear Vice President HS, dear colleagues and respected citizens of the Republic of Croatia who watch us on TV. The question that we asked our secretary of state was focused on why Croatia is located in the thorny area and we saw what the consequences were for Croatia, but that the earthquake was actually going to happen, such a scale was something to be expected for, say, one neighbouring Italy had major earthquakes, so in 2002 in Molise, before that in eastern Sicily somewhere when our rock earthquake and Emilio Romanja in 2012. And the reason I'm saying this is because she's the directive I mentioned in 2018. No. The 844 therefore speaks of the importance of so-called seismic efficiency that the EU places at the same level as energy efficiency. As regards the very consequences of the earthquake, so today when the City of Zagreb and Banovina are summed up, it is at the level of the budget of the Republic of Croatia and this total renewal we have touched, so it will not be enforceable at least not with this law that was voted here in HS. As regards these very importances of seismic renewal, so as to some seismic certificates, it is mentioned in Article. 17. The law of restoration, that's right. On the other hand, there is no such thing as that, therefore, it is not clear yet in the Law on Construction itself, so he made some recommendation, that there should be some seismic evaluation before the energy efficiency itself, or that is the need, therefore, in the article. 47. The construction law is unclear. So this one raises the same question of what happens to objects that didn't get hurt in the earthquake, which are, for example, covered by the Law on Reconstruction, and let's say it goes into energy efficiency, and they're very weak and they're very fragile, and that, for example, the earthquake at the level might have been on the east-west route, like "Jure Kaštelan" in Trnje, so we'd have 600 funerals today. So, what about such a thing, with such objects, for example, the entire energy efficiency at Zagreb High School and X. High School was done, but we saw for ourselves what happened to that object. Not to mention the facilities in Banovina, therefore, all educational institutions in Petrinja were affected and the question is then about the effectiveness itself, so the idea is good and should be supported for the reason that the whole EU is going towards the energy efficiency of green policies, reconstructions, etc. On the other hand, the question arises, what is the economic efficiency or seismic efficiency if we, for example, go to the restoration of a particular facility, so certain skeletons are already set up, workers are hired, traffic stops, for example in the Xth High School in the City of Zagreb, and then on the other hand, it suffers in an earthquake. So then again we have to do a double job in terms of stopping the whole traffic again, setting up the skeletons, this one's called the workers again, so we have a double, double cost. So the question then is, what then at the moment of the fire, do we have again the third time stopping traffic in X. High school, then collecting workers, then stopping traffic, so it's a total one ineffectiveness. As regards some constructive solution to this problem, Italy itself has offered, given that it has faced very much earthquakes itself, and that is something that they presented at EU level as a white book, which is nothing but a certain portfolio or archive of all works on a particular object, or some gene that helps to diagnose all of those works that happened on a particular facility so that there is no duplication of work, because if there was an example at X. Gymnastics or as was an example at the facilities of public institutions, educational institutions in Petrinja, then we have no efficiency but a double or potentially triple cost, so it is not clear. In this sense, therefore, this one portfolio that could have been established could then help us in energy recovery and seismic and fire, and all of this should precede energy efficiency. So, at all, see if a certain, certain facility has a good structure that can withstand an earthquake at the Eurocode level of 8 il if it can't, then it needs to be restored first. And in that sense, there is always a question of sources of funding. And that is why it is very important, therefore, that such things are clearly defined because it may therefore be possible for the reconstruction in both directions, therefore also for seismic renewal but also for energy and it is recently something that the Italians themselves have done at EU level for the first time. Well, since we have similar problems in terms of earthquakes and earthquakes, but also energy efficiency because in the EU, we believe in the MOST Club that such a portfolio, or such a gene, is necessary to avoid duplication of works, so as not to double costs, so as not to extend time so that certain objects are put into operation, such as the Xth High School in the City of Zagreb. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44514	The next debate is on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club of Representatives, the distinguished representative of Hrvoja Zekanovic, is missing, losing his right. The next Green-left bloc representative's club, reputed representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44515	Thank you. Here, I'm happy when I get a chance to start with praises, it's not so often but one of the good things that happened and which was also a recommendation and a Green-Left Block Club when we discussed and in our first reading about this law, but when we discussed the Rehabilitation Act and the strategy, the development strategy until 2030 was, it was a matter of concentration of investments in the field of rebuilding buildings that were affected by the earthquake with energy recovery. What's good is that according to what we can see from the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, and that's its summary, we would love to see the whole document so that we can discuss it competently, but what we can see is that the renewal initiative has therefore brought together these two components and that for these two components, investments totaling nearly 6 billion kuna are envisaged. We expected that these investments would also be slightly greater in planning because we know that they never fully make use of all the funds, and that will be some of our proposals, but it is certainly a good step in the way in which these two initiatives are combined into a joint NPOO initiative. Another thing that is also good, and also good news, especially for those who are moving towards rebuilding earthquake-damaged buildings, and also in energy is an unrecessant decision of the Constitutional Court that abolished two, two provisions in the Energy Efficiency Act that were in fact unclear in how 51% of co-owners count, whether it is accounted for in co-owners' parts, or whether it is accounted for by the number of co-owners in a particular building. It is now clear that it is as usual under the Law of Property and other real rights when it comes to the affairs of the regular administration that it is co-owners' parts and that is good. What is also good, today we discussed it in the morning and on the committee that I have called today, in fact, just because we have an initiative to put the amendment in this sense that it is going right now to these amendments to the Energy Efficiency Act to implement the Constitutional Court's decision, but here is already yesterday's Committee on Legislatives proposed it, which is good so it will also learn in these amendments. One thing that still bothers me in this proposal is the fact that, in terms of savings, when we talk about energy savings and when we talk about investing in energy poverty that it is possible, therefore, to account for energy savings, however, that as a criterion, we either have a question of energy poverty or we have a question of areas where disaster has been declared. When in application, when this law applies, what is possible is that, for example, electricity write-offs that were given for certain households in Banija will be counted as such savings because the area of Banija is declared a natural disaster, but that the same situation we will not be able to have for Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorska and Zagreb County, where we also have major problems with people who are still present today in replacement accommodation for which they also cannot pay electricity bills. I would appeal once again, we discussed it today on the board, I looked at that provision again, and it still seems to me that it could be interpreted in application in a way that either there is this criterion of energy poverty or that there is a criterion of natural disaster. Therefore, if it is interpreted as such, households that will not in themselves be able to prove, or when it is not, those involved in this part of energy poverty and do not meet these criteria and when it is not areas of natural disaster that it will not be considered as savings to operators who have described it. I don't think that's good, and in this sense we need to level all the areas affected by the earthquake and those that are in the Zagreb and Zagreb and Krapina-Zagorje districts as well as those in which they died in the area of Banija. So here's another one you'd like to appeal to. Also, I think it is very important now that we have in the National Recovery and Resistance Programme this initiative and when we also have the Energy Efficiency Act, which provides therefore for investments in energy efficiency and integration with the reconstruction itself, that it is important that this is reflected in the Fund's action programme. We know that in fact, the whole reconstruction still in the Zagreb area has not functioned, that we still have no solutions, recently Mr. Mandjelic said that no more recovery solution has come to him from the ministry and that we must now hurry not only this process but also the way all the bodies involved in the reconstruction are working, that they are actually making as much planning and combining the issue of energy recovery and anti-quake reconstruction. Also when we talked about this in the first reading, I stressed how important it is for the Energy Efficiency Fund to apply the concentration principle now, and that, in fact, the funds that exist for investment in the energy efficiency of buildings whether it is private family houses, whether it is public-purpose buildings, that it is now, indeed, in the next 2-3 years, focusing on those areas that are being restored to actually have an effect at the end of the savings because when we are already opening the buildings, we do not open them twice, but it really takes a clear political decision that this will also be the purpose of the Energy Efficiency Fund. The Green-Left bloc club will support this proposal for changes, changes and additions. We appreciate that some of the things from the first debate as well as the comments of some experts have been respected and we think it is okay to go into these changes, changes and additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44516	The next debate is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the distinguished representative Tomislav Okrosa.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44517	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, we have before us the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Energy Efficiency Act. On March 5th of this year, we marked the 23rd World Energy Efficiency Day, which at global level promotes the trend of transition to a low-carbon economy. With years of energy saving criteria becoming more stringent, and the EU plans to be fully climatic until 2050, which also imposes certain obligations on Croatia. The proposed amendments to the Energy Efficiency Act will lead to the harmonisation of the law with the amendments to the EU energy efficiency regulatory framework resulting from the adoption of Directive 2017/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018 amending Directive 2012/27 on energy efficiency. That Directive establishes a common legal framework for the promotion of energy efficiency within the EU after 2020, when so-called the second period of cumulation of energy savings to be achieved by Member States by 2030. The first cumulative period was between 2014 and 2020 when the target of 20% reduction in energy consumption was set compared to the 2005 reference year. In the second cumulative period, which began on 1 January 2021 and lasted 10 years, the aim is to achieve at least 32.5% reduction in energy consumption compared to consumption in the reference year 2005. The Directive also prescribes the continuity of energy savings and in the new cumulative periods since 2030. These amendments and the amendments to the laws are transposed into national legislation into specific obligations which we are obliged to fulfil. In order to achieve the objective defined by the regulation and the planned development of society, it will be necessary to implement energy efficiency principles through all sectors and activities. First, this principle, which has been incorporated into the law, requires that all economic activities and future projects be seen as a contribution to measures to improve energy efficiency. The principle aims to facilitate sustainable investment in energy, transport, construction, industry and others in terms of more efficient use of energy in all phases of the energy chain from production to final consumption. The application of the principle will separate the increase in energy consumption conditioned by intensifying the economic and social activities that have so far been the rule. This encourages technological development, innovation, digitisation and a series of activities that deliver higher income with a reduction in energy consumption and create conditions for quality and well-paid jobs. Following this, the Directive stipulates that Member States are obliged to achieve energy savings in the final energy consumption and that a methodology for determining the amount of mandatory and cumulative energy savings to be achieved during a particular cumulation period is prescribed. The obligation of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund is established to fully comply with the provisions of the National Energy Efficiency Action Plan as well as the energy reconstruction programmes of buildings which are the main alternative energy efficiency policy measures in the Republic of Croatia. The Fund is also clearly required to include in due time all data on the measures co-financed in the monitoring, measurement and verification system of energy savings and to be reported in due time by the Ministry. This ensures the timely and availability of data necessary for the annual report on the objectives achieved and brings regional or local plans into line with national plans and ensures the consistency of the development of regional and local plans. Regional or local plans should be adopted by 31 December of the current year for the next 3 years. This will allow county and city plans to be taken into account when drawing up the National Energy Efficiency Action Plan. The obligation for counties, cities and municipalities to report annually to the Ministry on the measures implemented to improve energy efficiency and energy savings achieved, and to introduce all measures they have implemented using only their own resources into the energy savings monitoring, measurement and verification system. This amendment and supplementation of the law also transfer parts of Directive 2018/2002 relating to consumer or consumer rights associated with the measurement and calculation of electricity consumption, natural gas, heat energy and hot water consumption. In particular, Directive 2018/2002 highlights the importance of the issue of individual measurement and accounting of heat consumption. In order to achieve transparency of calculation for individual heat consumption, Member States must ensure that individual measurement is carried out in a transparent and publicly available national rules on the distribution of heating, cooling and hot water consumption in the household, as well as building with multiple apartments and multi-purpose buildings. It should be pointed out that, for the previous period, between 2014 and 2020, mandatory cumulative savings were foreseen by a combination of alternative measures, a 50.1% policy and a 49.9% energy efficiency obligation system. The system of mandatory energy efficiency for energy entities which has become operational in 2019. So far, he has received excellent results from around 24,02 petajoule savings without 2020, and we have heard in our first reading that the goal in this system will be achieved. As far as Croatia's situation is concerned, we are 6 EU members by the share of renewable energy sources in final consumption. As for electricity production, it is produced by 72.4% from renewable sources. In the total share of electricity consumption, renewable sources participate with 48%. These are data from February 2020. In the final draft of the law, a provision lays down that the financial resources for the parties to the bonds represent reduced income, which are used for the purpose of reducing energy poverty in households, as well as for helping households in the event of a declaration of disaster, will be considered as a reduction in the obligations of the parties to the bonds. In view of the disaster, the affected areas in the Republic of Croatia need to be freed or reduced to bonds that have contributed to their financial resources to reduce energy poverty in the areas covered by the declaration of disaster. We also believe that there is a need to extend the fund's obligations to cover energy savings achieved in this way, i.e. that, through the fund, they are also realising and saving energy, and not only from bonds that have not met the obligation but from other incomes at their disposal, especially those from emission units, because these assets and under the Air Protection Act should be spent among other things and on reducing energy poverty. Before the end, I need to point out that in the context of energy savings, we all have a role to play. So in the area of my home municipality of Dubrava in the past term, we have achieved significant projects aimed at reducing energy consumption and increasing energy efficiency. We first replaced old and energy inefficient public lighting with new ice lighting, and through energy restoration of buildings and the use of renewable energy sources, and by promoting energy efficiency with the aim of reducing energy consumption, we implemented projects to restore more public use buildings. Each of us has an obligation to encourage and actively participate in the achievement of energy savings in our community. I will conclude that the law must be passed by June 2021. In order to bring Croatia's legislation into line with EU legislation and to contribute to the achievement of common EU energy efficiency and climate objectives for 2030. This will further encourage efforts to reduce energy dependence, reduce emissions, encourage job creation and further growth, strengthen consumer rights and mitigate energy poverty. This law will help achieve the EU's energy efficiency goals by 32.5% by 2030, remove barriers to the energy market that reduce the efficiency of energy supply and use, and set up its own national contributions for the 2021 period, and make a significant step towards energy self-sufficiency. For all of these reasons, the HDZ Representatives' Club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44518	Next debate on behalf of SDP's Club of Representatives, distinguished representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44519	Thank you very much, Your Honors Chairman, Your Honors Secretary with an associate, a colleague and a colleague. These amendments and amendments to the law also bring the Republic of Croatia's legislative framework into line with the amendments to the EU energy efficiency regulatory framework and introduce new energy efficiency targets by 2030. and further identify ways to achieve these objectives through a combination of energy efficiency commitments and alternative policy measures. We know that energy efficiency is the most effective way to achieve the objectives of sustainable development, as greater efficiency contributes to greater industrial competitiveness, reducing emissions of harmful gases to the environment, creating new jobs and increasing energy security. The goal is to reduce energy consumption within the EU from at least 32.5% in 2030. What does that mean for the Republic of Croatia? For the Republic of Croatia, this means that in 2030. It will not spend more than 8.23 million tonnes of equivalent primary energy oil and will not spend more than 6.85 million tonnes of equivalent oil in the final energy consumption. The Republic of Croatia was obliged to develop and submit an integrated National Energy and Climate Plan for the Republic of Croatia for the period from '21. until '30. and we could take a look at the goals we set for ourselves. For the indicator, reducing greenhouse gas emissions for the ETS sector compared to 2005, the goal is to reduce it at least 43%. Reduce greenhouse gas emissions for sectors outside the ETS compared to 2005 to reduce at least 7%. That the share of renewable energy sources in direct energy consumption is 36.4%, that the share of renewable energy in direct energy consumption is 13.2%, that energy consumption means total energy consumption without energy consumption is what I have just stated about those millions of tonnes. In his presentation, the secretary explained that we should implement this through all sectors and activities and that all economic activities and future economic projects are seen as complementing measures to improve energy efficiency and that this principle should, in fact, facilitate sustainable investment in the sectors of energy, transport, construction and others in terms of efficient use of energy in all phases of the energy chain from the start of production to the market, or to the end of consumption if I caught what you said, I think I did, quote that. Of course, almost all sectors are increasing energy consumption, and this is actually making the preconditions for further growth and for further increasing production and end-use, but the initiative in EU directives is that despite the increase in production, energy consumption is reduced and that additional innovation, technological progress and the use of new technologies that consume less energy are in fact launched. It is clear to all of us that, as regards entrepreneurs for such positive movements in part of energy efficiency, additional efforts are necessary, additional investment is necessary, investment is necessary in research, development and innovation for market research to monitor the application of new technological solutions that actually bring about the savings of these energies. Of course, in Croatia a whole series of documents have been made, that a whole series of consultations have been made with interested and local self-government and with large owners and with a chamber that should actually help in the realisation of this law. I must stress here the importance of implementing measures and energy efficiency plans in local self-governments that must be fully integrated into activities and efforts defined in the integrated National Energy and Climate Plan for the Republic of Croatia, but I also have to, we must also consider how to agree and in some way force local self-government to make and bring energy efficiency plans within the prescribed deadlines, and what to do, I think of what to do and how to do if they do not do so, how to provide them with the funds. I've already heard the answer from Mr. Secretary today, that part of the funds has been provided as part of the grant. We've seen in the documentation it's actually seen through the documents that are related to that program that we have one part of the funds that can be used through loans so I believe that without, I haven't heard this amount in total, but I believe that these are the funds that are enough to make it all come true. And it's important that we know that these funds.../incomprehensible/... for local self-government because unless the local self-government of these funds can't even implement the plans that are related to this law. And now we have reached our final consumers, which Article 3 says is the interest of the Republic of Croatia among other things and the improvement of security of energy supply and meeting the needs of end-users of energy. This article of the law is particularly important right now. In fact, you are probably all familiar with the fact that, according to the decisions of the resolute ministries and the government, the liberalisation of the gas market came into effect this warm year, so on April 1st of this year, although by winter in households, the amount of this energy is being spent and the effects of these decisions in the households cannot be measured. Why am I bringing this up? In the past few years, it has been constantly happening to sell back what our grandfathers, our fathers and we have built with them. In fact, local gas companies are sold out, which are given by citizens to manage natural gas infrastructures to bring natural gas to the end of the consumer, and the government rather than trying to destroy such phenomena, makes decisions that they are speeding up and thus brings consumers to an unspeakable position. In fact, due to the liberalisation of the gas market, many public companies in local self-government have been sold or decided to sell their gas companies as well as local self-governments because they allegedly feared that large suppliers would destroy them at lower gas prices anyway. And now we're meeting where? Local leaders have found a reason to sell these companies that are often sold and without prior evaluation by authorised experts by the system, give what you give, again, on the grounds that it is so on the gas market, and now it happens that companies are sold for the sums that are 5 and even 10 times less than the real value of these companies. So, local self-government has run out of businesses, employees are out of jobs, citizens are out of long-term investment. The result will be that we will soon have several large players on the gas market who will dictate the price of gas that will certainly not be minimal, and hopefully then AZTN will step on the scene, which will, of course, follow the movement of gas prices all the time and easily determine that there is a cartel and that they will take the actions necessary to protect our citizens and other consumers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44520	We're done arguing on behalf of the clubs, now we're gonna take a 10-minute break for air, we're gonna continue at 19 and 10. It's 7:00. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 7:11 A.M.]] The first individual debate is the honourable representative of Jure Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44521	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. I'm healing all of you. Efficient use of energy of interest is for the Republic of Croatia, so says art. 3. ct. 2. The Energy Efficiency Act. What does an efficient use of energy really mean? A simplified response would mean that we do not spend more energy than is necessary, i.e. That we don't waste our energy. That is why this law exists, and it aims to establish mechanisms to achieve energy savings. In order to achieve energy savings, we are also approaching the achievement of energy and environmental objectives such as reducing dependence on energy imports, improving air quality and public health and reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Every average household can contribute very little to energy savings. As a rule, it comes down to setting up better and expensive facades and roofs, perhaps someone also installs solar panels if there are opportunities and usually lights are turned off in the room when no one is in it. This may seem a little bit, but multiplied by the number of households we have in our country, there may still be more significant total energy savings. Thus, we must encourage others to save by example. However, those who can make more significant savings are countries, which is why the legislation of the unit of regional self-government which is obliged to adopt action plans to achieve savings, energy suppliers, energy distributors, transmission system operators, distribution system operators and large businesses, all of them can contribute to both greater and more significant energy savings. The EU has recognised all this and therefore adopted a series of directives and regulations that encourage energy efficiency. With these amendments and additions to the Energy Efficiency Act, we are harmonising our current law with Directive 2018/2002 and Regulation 2018/1999 of the EU, which means that we are essentially setting ourselves targets for energy efficiency, which is primarily equalising the legal framework for the promotion of energy efficiency, all in order to reduce energy consumption. A moment ago, we also heard from our colleagues, Okroša, that this is essentially about reducing energy consumption, i.e. achieving a 20% reduction compared to 2020 projected. and ultimately in reducing consumption of 32.5% in 2030. compared to 2005 We also take on these amendments the obligation to plan reporting on the savings achieved, by respecting and promoting the energy efficiency principle first. The principle that is very important is essentially in all our actions that we do either as private persons or as leaders of the larger business sector. We also assume, by amending and supplementing the law, the obligation to take into account the need to mitigate energy poverty when designing energy efficiency policy measures. We heard from the secretary of state that everything is already foreseen, and also with the declaration of disaster in Banovina, but that this measure includes essentially all those at risk of energy poverty. We further strengthen the right of consumers or customers by giving them the right to clear and transparent information on the calculation and consumption of electricity, natural gas, heat and hot water consumed. Amendments and laws aim to make a real shift in energy efficiency, and if further regulation is needed in the future, the proposed law lays the basis for further regulation through legislative and sublegal regulations. Will these changes and additions to the Energy Efficiency Act lead to energy savings, will they force entities to think about savings? I sincerely hope that with energy savings, we are protecting our environment, and we are also becoming less dependent on energy imports.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44522	We have one replica of Honorable Representative Miro Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44523	Thank you, Vice President. During today's debate, we talked about this importance of education about energy efficiency, but I am very little interested in your thinking about how many units are local and regional as they are aware of how important their role in the future is in implementing not only this law but also more on building awareness among citizens that as much savings as you've said, as you have said, because in the end energy efficiency is just going in the direction that energy is used in the right way that you need it, and that you don't spend more than you need, or that you don't throw yourself away with energy because it's actually not enough and in that way that there isn't enough then we need to pollute the environment more and more and more to produce it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44524	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44525	I thank you, Your Honor. Here's what you said, and I pointed out in my example, somehow we have to encourage everyone to damage energy. In households, it's clear how we're going to do it, and as leaders of local self-government units, we're doing it in a way that everything in our domain, any public lighting, was energy-efficient buildings that the city or the local self-government unit was designed to save energy. In our city we are also founders of preschool institutions, preschool education, all kindergartens, and we are also one of the few cities that are the founders of their primary schools. We have already refurbished the gardens energyily, we are now starting with schools, and of course we included, I thank the fund and everyone who supported us and other buildings such as the City Museum, the new City Museum building is now essentially the building that we received from the Ministry of State Property, we are now spending energy efficiency on it and we are going to restore it so that it is energy efficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44526	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Miro Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44527	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear Secretary of State with an associate. My colleagues and colleagues. Well, we've already discussed this law in our first reading on February 3, 2021. At that time, we have already concluded that we are actually harmonising it with the EU Directive, but this directive was just adopted on 11 December 2018, and the last time we were harmonising the law, it was precisely that in 2018 and of course we could not bring it into line with this last directive, so it is necessary that we do so now. The purpose of this law is to achieve the objectives of sustainable energy development, to reduce negative environmental impacts in the energy sector, to improve energy security, to meet the needs of end-users of energy, to meet the international obligations of the Republic of Croatia in the area of reducing greenhouse gas emissions and to encourage measures of interest to the Republic of Croatia. There were some suggestions between the first and second readings. The legislator and the proposer of this final bill discussed all these proposals, some adopted, some not, but explained to us in detail those he adopted and the proposals and those he did not, so we can be satisfied with this final bill. With this final draft of the law, what I want to particularly highlight is this principle of energy efficiency first. Although this has already been discussed, all our activities related to various sectors of energy, transport, construction, industry and others need to be addressed in a way that makes these investments more effective, savings and rational behaviour about electricity consumption. I've already touched the Replicator that we started this topic there in 2008. I.e. that this law is just a continuation of that law that we passed in 2008. And somehow all that's going on about energy efficiency should go in three directions all the time. One would be the education of citizens from kindergarten to age, and on the other hand, investment in or the separation of funds to invest in energy efficiency and the third thing that we have now started more and more recently, which is to prescribe quotas that we are already slightly punishing those who do not adhere to to to save as much as possible. This part of the investment in energy efficiency may be best reported by the Environmental Protection Fund itself, which has been since 2017-2020. Isolated for energy efficiency half a billion kuna on the energy reconstruction of family houses 210.9 million kunas, fostering energy efficiency in the transport of 103.5 million kunas, in the promotion of energy-efficient vehicles, building and setting up a charge station for electric power 15.8 million kunas, promoting renewable energy sources 110 million kunas, the acquisition of condensation boilers 41 million kunas, the promotion of the use of smart cities concepts and the municipalities of 16 million kunas, the energy restoration of buildings under the protection of cultural monuments of 9.7 million kuna. When these half billion kunas are still being added to the funds invested by investors themselves, then it is seen that we are actually investing very much in energy efficiency and, of course, through all this time, we already have a significantly better situation than it has been. Of course, it is still not what we would like, and that is why we must continue to go this way and, of course, that we need occasional amendments to the Energy Efficiency Act as we are now doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44528	We have a replica, the esteemed representative of Jure Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44529	Your Honor. As you have recently instructed how much the fund has given for energy efficiency you have listed in all over the past years the funds invested, I can say, for example, that we have energy-renewing kindergartens, and that now we have just received funds for the energy restoration of the new museum building. I say new ones because it's going to become a museum, now it's a derusting space. In your opinion, are there still any areas that should be special attention to the fund and to open new opportunities for energy efficient renewal, are there any other ideas? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44530	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44531	Well, it's hard for me to answer this quickly now, but in any case, we may often concentrate more on rebuilding existing buildings, etc., but we do have a lot, you say new museums, so we have a lot of new buildings that we're building now and we're actually investing extras that are just focused on energy efficiency, and we don't even count them at all now because we already consider it perfectly normal that everything we build, we build by these standards, and within that investment, it's also significantly allocated funds for energy efficiency in that construction. Of course, the most we can save, I'm even thinking about heat, and we're kind of focusing on it because it's hard for us as a small country to have an impact on how much more efficient some vehicles that are produced when we don't make them, but we can make them very, very much on the heat itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44532	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44533	Dear Vice-President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, the basic meaning of this law, i.e. these amendments and additions, which are related to the European acquis, is, above all, the purpose of improving the quality of air and thus the health of EU citizens, as well as reducing greenhouse gases and saving, above all, the prevention of waste of any kind and form of energy. And these regulations de facto we perfect it, but at the same time as we perfect it we have another problem that is not directly related to the metricity of what we are discussing today, but it has to do with meaning and purpose, with the purpose of these regulations because here we are talking about the plan, the recovery plan and talking about electric cars. We are talking about electric cars, and thanks to the ban on diesel fuel vehicles, so in Germany that use diesel fuel from euro 1 to euro 4, we have, we are flooded, which is also normal given the material circumstances of Croatian citizens, we are flooded with imports of German diesel cars that can no longer enter centres and drive around larger German cities. So that goes in the exact opposite of what we're trying to do here today and what we're discussing. Of course, these things are being corrected through, above all, through fiscal policy, whether they are excise duties on individual fuels, so from electricity, diesel, gasoline, whether they are also in copying, so used but also new vehicles to what are being imposed. Of course this isn't about that, but we're talking about purpose, meaning and purpose. And the other thing is, if we're talking about just one of the most acceptable energies in our country, this is the part that's connected to solar energy. I come from the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County and the Office of Spatial Planning has made all possible documentation in agreement with HEP, in agreement with HEP to push therefore to our cost de facto all the documents with the so-called project of solar energy in Orlec Trinket, Orlce 1 so-called already, it's already a little bit in the realization phase. But what's going on? So, regardless of what the project is going on, we'll get there without further ado if we're not already up to the location permit, but then it happens to us that the HEP distribution centre operator conditioned that before the energy agreement is issued, a accession contract must be concluded. When you add all that up, we're asked to pay the HEP de facto for a million-million-and-250-dollar electricity connection. And that is among other things underlining I will not even comply with other positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia. Why? Because the establishment of specific conditions and conditions of accession is laid down by the Law on Spatial Planning. Article 135(4) of the Spatial Regulation Act states that a public legal authority may not, for the purpose of determining specific conditions, require payment of advances to the costs of determining the specific conditions or the delivery or production of documents and embodies. And then it happens that except for the basis of Article 3(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The rules for issuing the energy consent to determine the conditions of connection of the power grid, so who has to pay for it, so the investor, or the owner of the building, is required after setting out specific conditions for the implementation of the location permit, and prior to the submission of the request for a building permit, of course after the location of this facility, is obliged to submit an application for the issue of an optimal technical solution to the connection to the system operator. So, on the one hand, we want to work the power plant, we're going to meet the investor up to the location permit, and then he's still plowing us for millions and 750 thousand kuna. And last but not least, and that remains a mystery, and that's one sentence enough. And that's what our gas station, or Ina's gas finds in Sinj, are worth $20 billion. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44534	You have one replica, distinguished representative Željko Pavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44535	The esteemed representative at our home in Krapina, the head of secondary school, launched an initiative to cover the roofs of the school and the roof of the hall, in fact, with panels for the production of electricity, went to the funds, went to the agency, the Development Agency in Krapina, and received information on how it can do so with minimal investment of its own, as much as it can get grants. And we actually calculated that school should actually have free electricity after a year. Since you from the PGZ county of Primorje-goranska, since you are more advanced and since I know that there have already been some roof-covering projects with these panels, especially in Istria, do you know how many directors of large institutions who have large buildings have launched such an initiative?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44536	I cannot answer this information specifically, I hope that initiatives related to putting panels on roofs of public institutions will not experience fate as well as this solar power plant. The fact is, through energy efficiency, we have restored a lot of schools and this has received extremely important energy savings, including over 30%, especially in older buildings. And the fact is also, however, we had some problems in realisation. For what reason? The law came into force, we made contracts with contractors, of course through public procurement procedure, etc., but then there was a problem for the performers, and that was about the supply of raw materials in isolation material because, as the law was passed, they all rushed into the supply of it, so that we had a delay, a delay in certain realizations when we were talking about thermal insulation precisely because of the lack of material.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44537	And the final debate by the distinguished representative Marina Opačak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44538	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The second reading of the Amendment Law and the Supplements to the Energy Efficiency Act is before us, which states that the law aims to establish mechanisms that will achieve energy savings in the ultimate energy consumption in the way it is prescribed by the Directive. The directive itself has been adopted to address energy market shortages and to establish clear mechanisms for achieving energy and environmental targets to reduce dependence on energy imports, improve air quality and public health and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. When it comes to improving air quality and public health, I would like to point out again that there is still no movement on the identification and resolution of large air pollution in Slavonski Brod and the solution to this issue of citizens of Slavonski Brod are waiting 12 years and continue to breathe highly illicit concentrations. Although again on 5 February, we managed to wake Minister Coric up for one day because all the media wrote about it, nothing concrete is happening to solve this problem systematically. We still don't have a final solution, and according to the latest statements, we've heard that pollution comes from traffic and home bars. If this is the case, so as to establish clear mechanisms for achieving energy and environmental objectives, it is insufficient and cannot involve energy recovery only to restore public buildings' facades if they are one of our biggest traffic pollutants and home bars. What I want to point out is that the funds must be targeted at targeted needs in our case of reducing air pollution in the City of Slavonski Brod. If it's traffic we're looking for solutions to this, if it's a househouse, then we're investing more in energy recovery and changing household heating. There was a promise of possible subsidisation of central heating system connections to households in order to stimulate the use of energy sources with the smallest emissions of particles, but it was never realised. Even those minimum measures have not been implemented, such as the energy reconstruction of family homes which has been missing for several years in a row, and the implementation of the same measures except for energy savings in final consumption would reduce the emissions of particles during the heating season. What I want to see from the realisation and implementation of this law is the implementation of measures and energy efficiency plans at local level which, of course, comes with the will, interest and work of the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development. It is extremely important and I expect the framework for measures to promote energy efficiency in particular in the City of Slavonski Brod in order to ensure that the framework objectives and the same energy efficiency are achieved. To solve problems such as air pollution in Slavonski Brod, I expect that the resources at our disposal will finally be used and will be directed towards solving this burning problem for citizens of Slavonski Brod. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44539	The final debate on behalf of the promoter will be held by prominent Secretary of State Ivo Milatić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44540	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable parliamentary deputies and MPs. I thank you for the debate that was good in our view and in principle how much it was to notice all the MPs and all the clubs practically supported this law and this idea, which is clear and understandable and commendable. What I have further to say, and that is that any doubt that the objectives are set in a way that could not be achieved lies in the pure fact, so we had the first one, this law started in 2014. The first period lasted until 1.1, and as already said here in the discussion with mandatory schemes we started in 2019. and we of 54 petitions that we should have achieved during this period in mandatory schemes 24 out of 27 as planned, and only for two years were we practically implemented, so that we were very successful. In alternative measures we failed, we achieved 10.03 there, and so in this second period we went to 30% of the alternative measures, which would be 37.5 petajoules, and 80.5 will be in mandatory schemes in 10 years. So that's what we think is one good balance and it's going to be possible to achieve it, especially because we have enough extra resources through alternative measures that now appear through all these funds. What is important to mention that we are not here in the debate is that we have in the past period and established a system that can and can trade in savings, it is very important that our citizens know because the average citizens who restore their own name and for their own account their own house if the certified certificater or engineer makes an assessment of its savings, it can sell those savings to someone who is in mandatory schemes and clearly all of them together find some interest and thus help their home budget, or reduce their investment. As far as several discussions are concerned, and on the subject of the esteemed representative Pavić spoke about gas, I would only be for the Croatian public regardless of what this is not the Gas Act, but when we touched it, that for several years we have announced through the Gas Market Act when the liberalisation of the gas market in Croatia started, meaning since 2018, and it started since 1.4. We all know that there were 33 distribution areas and 33 suppliers, so all those who last minute welcomed that moment, and then, as you said about why you were selling something, you absolutely can't blame the government for that because they simply all had enough time to prepare and organise for it, and not like you said, if it's true, and there's no reason not to believe it, there's probably a number of capable or less capable companies that brought themselves into this situation. So the gas market liberalisation system has functioned, as far as we can see no special market disturbances, some have passed with the same supplier cheaper, and some have passed with the same supplier a little more expensive. It was all market competence and it will be at these years that continue to come and we expect no problem. Just so we know since 2007, the electricity market has been liberalized and the same thing is working. We liberalized fuel there in 2013, 2014, I don't know exactly when, but it means this was the last one, and that's it. As far as this discussion of your connection to the power plant is concerned, you must know that there is a system in Croatia, which is that the investor or manufacturer participates in the cost of the connection, but when the production starts, no longer pays the distribution fee. As Croatia, we have defined that this is a much better and more efficient and cheaper system for the manufacturer than we have said that the manufacturer does not pay but that we give him the connection, and that through all those years we charge him a distribution fee and it is not according to the Law on Spatial Planning. Under the Law on Spatial Planning, these spatial and other situations are regulated, and according to the Electricity Market Act, this is regulated. So that's what we think is okay, and on that concept, we're going to stay in principle. As for the Syria you mentioned, you must know that it was the government of Zoran Milanovic simply on the first call he gave up on Syria when the sanctions against Assad started, without any thought of what the consequences were, what or how. Assad's still standing there, and we're out of Syria. What's going to happen with that? I don't know, but it's just for the public to know. As for Slavonski Brod and the gasification of the refinery which I suppose is what we expect will help reduce pollution in Slavonski Brod, this job goes as far as I have information, regardless of what it is a private project it is already at the very end so we hope it will help to finally improve the situation in Slavonski Brod. This would agree with you that there is probably another great effort that we need to make around the lodge and about traffic in Slavonski Brod. All these measures that are now planned through the National Recovery Plan through all other plans are going towards it, and these are all through the plan that the City of Slavonski Brod, the energy efficiency plan that the City of Slavonski Brod must make, as a local community, must send a clear message and, on a professional and every level, well consider what is best to happen here and in this direction to experience and support from the state. It is clear that eMobility is definitely going there, replacing the sheds in those less polluting sheds, heat cranes renewable sources are all things that will be funded in the future. So with your plans you need to focus your activities and clearly in such a way and support by the state. That would be short. And I thank you again. Perhaps only two sentences on the subject of Mrs. Petir and her interventions around the wood industry possibly to stimulate domestic producers. Our idea of promoting green public procurement through the Public Procurement Act in future periods. So green public procurement through public procurement when it comes to energy efficiency is clear that it will prescribe from where and how much CO2 footprints will be in the production of materials that are being made and from which distance these materials will be delivered to the real place. And in that part, in one way, it can indirectly stimulate domestic production to make it more competitive in offerings for such projects, and we think that we will succeed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44541	We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44542	My dear secretary, I don't know if you've realized that I actually said that the error or guilt of the government was simply by giving the alibi to the incompetent leaders that they could now sell the Buddha for why, to go to the market, and since then, even though they knew the deadlines and that it was prescribed much earlier. My question was, in fact, about the second topic, what interests me, which is the subject of our citizens and their households, their households, here's where the colleague mentioned that they have problems with air pollution in Slavonski Brod, she said that it was said by the minister that there was a problem with both households and heating, which you expect by 2030 how many households can be supplied with different energy sources especially for heating, heating sources, like pump cranes or other aids that will reduce drastic air pollution costs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44543	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44544	Thank you. As for what we expect, we expect that more households will use renewable and more efficient, more efficient heating, cooling and everything else. And that means logically that in those parts of the country where this problem is more highlighted and our efforts in terms of support and each, each aid will be greater, but clearly this must go in synergy of local self-government and state bodies. It can't be just on one side. That must be one joint action.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44545	The next replica is the distinguished representative Marina Opaček Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44546	Thank you. As far as Slavonski Brod itself is concerned, as I said, it's not only about gasification but also about energy restoration of family houses, replacement of the shed and everything else I mentioned. But you said that the role of the local self-government unit itself should be greater and that we should go with the proposals to Zagreb and generally towards the ministry, but I think that within a period of 12 years and only the ministry should have already had some kind of strategy and indeed a stronger system because here we had the opportunity to see except that the energy restoration of the family houses was delayed, when the turn came on it that system had simply failed. We had this opportunity to see, when the system fell into the fund because it simply couldn't file a number of 10,000 applications, and indeed the citizens tried and collected the documentation, hire consultants, pay and energy certificates so they wouldn't realize anything in the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44547	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44548	No, we didn't schedule it, but the simple system is how you say it fell, it didn't fall, it simply was more of an interest than there were funds. So, we intend to only increase this amount of funding more every year and it is clear that as the years go on, the number of citizens' offers will be smaller and the difference between potentially acceptable offers and those that are not acceptable will be reduced. We'd be lucky to have enough money that all seven and a half thousand as much as I remember this offer that everyone could be accepted. It is clear that not all could be accepted in view of the limited resources, but the fact that in all the years that go now, this amount is only increasing in both budgetary and other terms. And what I've said is important that the city has a good energy efficiency plan so that all these actions are then directed in the right direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44549	Next replica, distinguished representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44550	I'm actually agreeing with you because you said one thing when I'm talking about this part that's connected to the connections or the documents that are needed to bring about the realization, because you mentioned the investor, we're not an investor, we're like a county, and according to the RH's orientation, we care that we have solar energy and we help with the location permit, but we're not investors. Then why does HEP want us to do it instead of investors when we're not investors, that's the problem. Is the question, then, only does HEP adhere to the regulations and regulations of the Republic of Croatia that are in force? Because you told the investor yourself, yes, it must, it's an investor's obligation, it's not an obligation to help the investor who it was, no.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44551	Apparently, the investor wasn't capable, so you helped him. I mean I can't do it any different, different this one.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44552	The investor is HEP, I mean, if he's not capable.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44553	Well, I'm not sure, I'm not sure that HEP this, that HEP is going to charge you for that because by law he doesn't have to, so it's just out of order to charge you for it. So this relationship with HEP was supposed to be regulated by you as a county in terms of mandatory law, but by regulation, you know who has to pay for it, who has to make up for it later. It would make sense to me if later HEP took it upon himself that he was refunding everything for you as a county, but that's you, that's what you need to agree with HEP.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44554	At the risk of warning, I'll forward all the documentation to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44555	Please don't argue from the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44556	With pleasure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44557	The next replica is Honorable Representative Miro Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44558	Thank you, Vice President. Secretary of State, in some ways, I wanted to get involved in this particular debate that you're now having about joining the plant. It's been really defined since the beginning of the year 2000, when we started building power plants at all and connecting them to a distribution network, that it's the investor who pays and finances the entire connection to the distribution network, and then, all the time, he's handing over energy or distribution or transmission network, and he doesn't pay for it any network. Now that I'm listening to this problem, so if you want to build a power plant at some location, you can have it from before and you don't have it from before. In order to even see how much that connection costs on that network, there must be some kind of elaborate. And it's quite well-organized, and it's been working pretty well for a long time. Who's gonna pay for that elaborate? The investor, if someone else takes that role as an investor at first, then it's the one who pays for it, later the investor takes over. And asking whether to pay for that plugin or not is like asking the question We need a building permit or we don't need one. [[Intruder: Time.]] Now that's what we're supposed to need.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44559	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44560	We all said, we simply know the procedure, and this should obviously solve situations like this with the mutual relationship of investors or potential investors or substitute investors already as it is, but we can't predict such a matter by law, is that at least absurd.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44561	I thank the Secretary of State. We've exhausted the full debate with this. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. And the final item of today's session: - Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission Please the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of Mr Robert Jankovics to submit the report.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44564	Dear Mr. Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The mandate-immunity commission of HS at the 13th session held on 7 April 2021. Considered the request of private prosecutor Viktorija Knezevic from Dubrovnik addressed to the president of HS for granting the authorisation to continue the criminal proceedings against Mate Frankovic of the representative in HS for the criminal offence of the libel of art. No. 149.9. Penalty law. Mato Frankovic is a representative of 10. It shall convene HS and shall, on the basis of Article. 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia The 23rd Rules of Procedure of the HS shall have immunity and, without a decision by the HS against the MPs, no criminal proceedings may be initiated or conducted. A mandate-immunity commission under Article. 116. The Rules of Procedure of the HS shall propose to the HS the following decisions: "During the term of the parliamentary term of office, the authorisation to continue the conduct of the criminal proceedings against the representative of Mate Frankovic in HS, at the request of private prosecutor Viktorija Knezevic of Dubrovnik, who is headed under business number 40K-552/2018 before the Municipal Court of Dubrovnik for the offence of the slander of art. 149th century 1 in conjunction with Article 2. The Penal Code." Explanation, the Mandate-Immunity Commission took a principled view that in the case of private prosecutors, it would propose to the HS a denial of approval. However, at the request of the DORH as an independent and independent judicial body which is obliged to act against the perpetrators of criminal offences and other criminal offences, it will propose to the HS an authorisation to initiate criminal proceedings in order to enable the Constitutional and Law-Making to carry out the judicial authority independently and independently. It is the Commission's view that the Institute of Immunity established in order to protect the dignity of the mandate, not in order to protect the representatives as an individual. And the conduct of criminal proceedings, as well as any actions that should be taken in connection with this, could make it impossible for a representative to act as his regular representative, thereby affecting the work of HS. The criminal proceedings may continue after the term of office has expired, since the statute of limitations does not run until there are reasonable reasons why the proceedings cannot be carried out.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-08-0.u44565	I thank the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I'm opening a debate. There's no one reported for questioning. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We will continue tomorrow morning at 9.30 a.m. with a statement of amendments. Good night. WEEK, WEEK, WEEK, WEEK, WEEK, WEEK, WEEK.
