ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:14]] The 419 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of Ukrainian national deputy Harlim Wallery Mikhailovich. Please welcome our colleague and wish him success. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meeting on September 22, 2010. 15 questions of the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration, 5 decrees were passed, 1 bill was adopted on a basis, 9 bills were rejected. Dear colleagues, the consideration of matters, or the list of issues to be considered today, is given to you. At the same time, may I have your attention? – the faction is required to announce a recess for consultations, as well as a meeting of the Conciliation Council – is the BUT faction and the faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. I suggest that the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine hold meetings, and the leaders of the deputy factions. Please, calm down! Calm down! Calm down, dear fellows! Now that these issues are being discussed, continue to consider other issues. And the head of the MP factions please gather in the office of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I'm leading you to your knowledge that I just had a meeting with a representative of the BUT faction committee. And when such a proposal has been made that the Supreme Council of Ukraine continue its work by deferring its consideration of personnel issues and starting to consider issues related to parliamentary hearings, and we will hold a meeting of the Conciliation Council in the meantime, and we will continue to determine what to do. Such an offer was accepted. A break of 30 minutes is announced. Don't you want to? Please, the heads of the deputies' factions, please meet me in the Head's office. After that, we will consider the issues set out in the schedule for today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u2	Please take your seats, we will continue our fruitful work. At the request of two factions — the BUT factions and the “Our Ukraine – the People's Self-Defense” — a break of 30 minutes was announced. During the break, there was a meeting of the Conciliation Board. First of all, I suggest that the initiators give information to the Supreme Council of Ukraine about the motives that they have been guided by by, offering to announce the break. Please, Andrew Cosemiakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u3	Dear voters, Head, colleagues! The events that took place yesterday at the Supreme Council of Ukraine were notable. As most have not tried to block the consideration of the issues that our faction has initiated since the beginning of today's session, the Supreme Council has nevertheless considered the bills that have been urged by the "Clocus of Yulia Tymoshenko", the faction, "Fathership". These bills are primarily designed to protect our people in conditions where life in Ukraine gets worse every day. Why did we insist on giving these bills priority consideration? Because it's been more than six months since the Party of Regions led by the President has concentrated all power in their hands. But life in the country has not become better, and people feel worse every day because there has not been such a rise in prices in times of great crisis. Despite the numerous promises, the specific decisions of the government of Azarov, the President's initiative, the support of the majority here in Parliament has led to the growing complexity of life for ordinary citizens. It is the unwillingness and misunderstanding of the nation’s problem, the situation in a country that is becoming dangerous every day, which is the main cause of the rhetoric that was set up in the session hall yesterday by the leaders of the well - established coalition. For a long time, we have heard of pension reform. In fact, it called for an increase in retirement age. Similarly, authorities deal with small businesses. We've heard a lot about tax reform. Finally, the Tax Code was sent to Parliament. According to an entrepreneur’s reaction, there is nothing useful to make life easier for a small business. Our faction offered an active mechanism that would reduce tax burden on entrepreneurs, but this initiative met the opposition of the majority and was not supported. The opposition has offered real steps that must be taken to protect our citizens and to ensure the development of the real economy. These are not populist slogans, but specific suggestions. Unfortunately, you saw the results of the vote yesterday on the board. The coalition strongly advocated the ratification of the Black Sea Fleet Agreement, the surrender of national interests, of the desire not to raise the price of gas. Unfortunately, you all see the price of gas raised. And the last. I'd like to draw attention to what you see, and to what you see, that's how you block a little bit of the parliamentary rostrum. The point is that the Conciliation Council was just meeting on a day-to-day issue of personnel reassignment and distribution of committees. I mean, I understand that colleagues are respectable, they're blocking the rostrum to make sure that we consider this issue without blocking it. It's a staff issue, I say again, so we always do it to adopt a bill on moratoriums on prices, increases on gas, products, and they do it to change, they say, the head of the committee and divide positions. At first, we were banned from the party elections in the Lviv region and in the Kyiv region. Yesterday. the other night, the speaker announced what we were forbidden to call ourselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u4	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u5	“Julia Tymoshenko’s Block is “The Fatherland”. Today, the Conciliation Council considered this issue and wanted to remove it from a violation of the Rules of Procedure Act of the Customs Committee headed by Mr. Terjohin. In this regard, we have gathered the Conciliation Council. I want to say that the faction insists that this issue be removed from consideration in order for it to be considered under the Rules, under the Act in force, and then considered on the Committee and then brought to the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u6	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we agreed that members of the Conciliation Council, namely factions, would express their views on the negotiations we had during the meeting. Please, Ruslan Knazevitch, microphone. Then Valentin Grigorovich Matthew will speak. Microphone, Ruslan Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u7	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! The position of our faction is that it is absolutely unacceptable now, as for us, to do fairly openly and harshly in violation of the rules and the Supreme Council Committees Act and, above all, the Supreme Council Rules of Procedure Act in the part concerning the approval of the list of committees of a properly valid session of the current composition of the Supreme Council. It is said that the new edition of the Supreme Council Rules of Procedure Act in part two of article 81 clearly states that the list of committees may be approved if necessary only at the first session of the new Parliamentary Assembly. So even if, in that case, if a new calling session finds this inappropriate, changing the list of committees that worked in the previous Parliament, that's her right, she might not. But she certainly can't do it at the second and any other session of Parliament. Given these issues, the only way, of course, to somehow change the number of committees could be to eliminate them.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u8	Complete your opinion, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u9	Disposal of committees. This is provided by law on appropriate committees, but if the number of committee members becomes less than nine. Given that this situation cannot now extend according to the legal relationship that we are facing, we believe that this list cannot change under any circumstances. We can change the names of the committees, we can even change their powers, but the number of committees has to be constant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u10	Valentina Matviev, Communist faction. Then who? Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u11	Thank you. Dear colleagues! As you have seen, instead of 30 minutes of the Rules, the council of the leaders of the parliamentary factions has been going on for more than 40 minutes, but one of the leaders of today’s opposition has already said about the effectiveness of this rostrum. Result is zero. That is why we need to get out of this situation that has arisen in Parliament and, in particular, in today's organization of our plenary day. Where am I going with this? Let us, indeed, act according to the Rules. We have an agenda for today. So there's a proposal to remove the first two projects, Vladimir Mikhailovich: 7126 and 7126-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u12	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u13	in view of the fact that these draft regulations were not discussed at the Committee on Rules, MPs and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and to follow the order that we have so far set. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u14	Oleg Zarubinsky, then Alexander Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, well, this discussion once again showed that when we talk about motives, about something else, about claims, we are already involved in discussing those issues that are put into the agenda. So there's a completely constructive proposal: to start doing this day-to-day, even though we traditionally have plenary weeks and a Thursday is the most productive or intensive day for work. And that's why it's 11 o'clock, and nothing's actually gone. So our faction's proposal is absolutely concrete, and it's that if we're starting to talk about issues, we have to do it in the form of a day's work, we have to start a real session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u16	Alexander Efraemov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, respectable Vladimir Mihajlovich, I would also like to support Zarubinsky: we have the order of the day that is set for today. Only the first item on the agenda is a matter that the Committee has not dealt with on a regular basis but has dealt with other matters. With respect to the Committees, we must probably agree that the first question could be removed from the agenda and considered further on the agenda. The issues that have been raised today have already stood for several months, to prolong them inadvertently, and the Hall must make a final decision so that the Supreme Council and the Committees can work properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts, each faction declared its position. And during the Conciliation Council, taking into account that there are different points of view, it was suggested that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should be considered with a view to ensuring that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, through a vote, is determined on four such proposals. The first sentence is to postpone consideration of the issues relating to committees and the election of committee boards, namely: postpone consideration of the bill in the form of draft regulations 7126, 7126-1, then the second on amendments to the Supreme Council Order on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Heads, Secretaries and Members of the Supreme Council Committees, and also 7620 on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u19	That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u20	And everything, yes, and everything, I'm sorry. That's the first offer. The second sentence, if not supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is to consider these issues by deleting a draft decision on the merger of the two committees, taking into account what the Communist faction has just said that the committee has not considered the matter. If this proposal is not supported, then there is a third suggestion: to consider two committees on the direction of the Committee on Banking. This is about the leadership of the Tax and Customs Policy Committee and the Committee on Freedom of Speech. And the fourth offer. If the third proposal is not supported, consider the issue of the leadership of the Tax and Customs Policy Committee, taking the matter of the leadership of the Committee on Freedom of Word into consideration. Here's four suggestions, in this order I'm going to put it to a vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, we've already said it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u21	No, you've already had the opportunity to speak, you've already said everything. Well, I can't go on forever, we've made a deal with you. Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote my first proposal on. [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh. We've agreed on everything in the process of discussion, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] I put to the vote my first motion to postpone consideration of the issues that concern committees and their leadership. I ask the Supreme Council of Ukraine to determine by vote. [[11:00:17]] For 165 The decision is not supported. A second proposal to consider personnel issues related to the management of the two committees and the removal is now being put to the vote. Offer. The factions, please. Region Party 4, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 117, Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense - 39, Communists and the Lithuanian Block - 0, and non-fractional - 5. Now, the suggestion is to consider the issues identified by the agenda today, that is, our timetable, by deleting draft regulations 7126, 7126-1, that apply to the unification of committees. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please vote. [[11:01:28]] For 249 Decision taken. I'm announcing the issue. By factions, please show me. The Party of Regions – 169, "Clock of July Timoshenko" – 0, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" – 9, communists – 27, "Clock of Lithuania" – 19, non-factional – 25. I would like to announce for consideration the issue of amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Sixth Call and Election of the Head, First Deputy, Deputy Heads, Secretary and Members of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Privatisation. This question is made up of two draft regulations. The first draft of the ruling is 7158 and the second draft of Decree 6231. So the first one is being considered. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, there are three draft decrees on this subject. I'm announcing them again. Please, calm down. 7158, 6231 and 7112. I am the first to review the draft Decree 7158, because it requires a special procedure, namely to amend the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Deputy Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Supreme Council Committees of the Sixth Council of Ukraine and the Election of Heads, First Deputy, Deputy Heads, Secretary and Members of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Privatisation. Dear colleagues, it takes 30 minutes, up to 30 minutes. First, the initiators, then the committee head. So Alexander Vasiliev has the word from the initiators of the draft decree. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, it's all there is, you see. Dear colleagues, I beg you not to shout.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u22	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u23	One minute, one minute. This question is required to be placed in the agenda. No problem, let's turn it on. I ask you, Your Honor, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has made a decision. I'm voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft regulation. [[Registration number 7158, 6231, 7112]] Please vote. [[11:04:49]] For 248 Decision taken. Please, Alexander Vasiliev in 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u24	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Today we are considering the work of the committee that we are considering today on financial, tax and customs policies to organize the work of this committee. During the work of the Committee, there is, of course, a very difficult situation for us to carry out. The fact is that we cannot continuously collect the Committee's planned work is that we cannot work there properly in connection with a certain confrontation by the committee manager. That is why the issue has come to light today and today we must consider it. This is the work of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy and is considered one of the leading committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which addresses the very serious economic and financial issues of our State. In order to ensure the normal role and work of the Committee, I believe that an organizational issue should be considered in the organization of the Committee's leadership. And I suggest that this meeting consider the recall of the Chairman of the Committee, Terehin Sergey Anatolievich, and elect a new chairman of the Committee at this meeting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u25	One minute, a question to the reporter. Would you please ask me a question, dear colleagues, five minutes is enough? Dear colleagues, we've got 30 minutes, 10 minutes to deal with the committee head, obviously there'll be questions for the committee head, so give me five minutes, please sign in. Yuri Serbin, microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, I'm not saying that breaking the Rules has become common. Yet, the specific claims to Mr. Terhochin are the first question. And the second question. You and I have approved a quota: which faction should be headed by one committee or another. So why is it now that the committee's leadership is not just changing, it's passing on to another faction? Please ask these two questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u27	So the first question is the organization of work. In particular, I would like to say that I have already said in my statement that we cannot have regular regular meetings of the Committee. We cannot actually gather the full membership of the committee, which is said to be members of the Party of the Regions, members of the Lithuanian faction, Communists, that is. As for the work of the members of the BUT Committee, people are not always there. This is therefore a violation of the organization of the Committee's work. With regard to the work, I believe that the Chairman of the Committee is useful to improve the work of the Committee and the normal organization of the work being carried out, which means that it is appropriate to recall the Chairman of the Committee and appoint a new Chairman of the Committee. Leave Terehina alone. So he's a member of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u28	Vladimir Bondarenko, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u29	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. But I think we need to rule out committee members to completely block any information about the economic activity of the government of Azarov, which leads Ukraine to collapse. [[Applause]] So that no one would know to tell you that 0.1 percent went up, and the markets went up three times, read today's newspapers. That's why you're doing this -- to block absolutely any statistical information that comes from the regions today. I believe that your work today is aimed at throwing out general opposition from the life of Ukraine. For this reason, the president goes and tells us that we respect the opposition, that we listen to their thoughts, that we take them into account in our activities. You're leading to monopolising power in Ukraine, but you're monopolizing responsibility for everything that's going on. You go to the market today, explain why. Why are cows slaughtered in the village? Why today this activity leads to the destruction of small businesses. That's why you have to close an economic committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u30	Our activities are based on the stability of the work of Parliament and the Committee. And the work of the committee is constantly covered in the press, and it's always covered with journalists. Therefore, we have open, transparent committee work, and we do not need to discuss this today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u31	Andrew School, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u32	Thank you. Your Honor, I understand very well that we simply need to ensure the positions of those who have not been granted positions of authority, but to destroy the agreements that have always worked and the quotas in the Supreme Council. But I fully approve of my predecessor’s explanation. There's just something else. You understand e, there are many other committees, there are wholes, there are about 150 members of the opposition, you have to, I think, prepare a decision, expel all the opposition deputies from the Supreme Council, another decision to appoint representatives of the Party of Regions or the guys from Donetsk to work here. And I think that's actually your democracy, in this position in society and in general. That's what you need to talk about, not to make incomprehensible claims. Because I never knew what was wrong with Terhochin, or what his problem was, like the heads of the committee. It's a professional economist, it's a man who's in his place. But you just want to ruin the situation in the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u33	I have already said that this is related to the very low organization of the Committee's work. As far as we are concerned, let us say that the representatives of the Party of the Regions or, let us say, another political force are concerned. We're told these portfolios are special. We want to have professionals who really do ensure the work of this committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u34	Andrew Pavlovsky, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u35	Andrew Pavlovsky “BUT – “Fatherhood”. Please pass the word to colleague Sasu.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u36	Sergei Sass. Please, the microphone. Sergei Sasa's microphone. Check the card, please. Check the card. It is written that you do not have the microphone on, that you have the wrong card inserted. Look at whose card it is. Here, please. Then whose card is that?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u37	Thank you. Dear reporter, I read the extract from your committee's report, which dealt with the question of the withdrawal of Teryochin. And it says here that the question was being considered, and the question was being resolved. What are the reasons for this? And the law that you probably need to know about, article 7 provides grounds for calling off the committee head. There are three reasons: according to his own statement, as a result of other circumstances that make it impossible for him to carry out his duties and because of his unsatisfying work. On the other hand, he said the committee was working, it was lighting up. Why? You were supposed to say that there were 20 committee meetings planned, and he never did. Then some claims could be presented. In your decision, you propose to head the committee of your faction, and the law stipulates that if the committee head is dismissed, the faction from which he was removed belongs. Why are you doing this in violation of the law? Is there no law for you in Ukraine at all? Answer these specific questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u38	It is a matter of meeting the committee that is going on, not of allowing the committees to hold its 15th, 20th, 30th, 40th, 50th. Committees and 10-15s can be held, but to be effective, they can cover the issues that are being raised. and aimed at the economy of the State. Hundreds of these meetings can be held there, except for what meetings are fictitious, non-necessary, where 50 per cent or 40 members of the Committee are present. Committee That's all, you know what this is all about. As far as the question of the Chairman of the Committee is concerned, it is from the Party of the Regions. There is a Parliament, and we will, as it is said, vote in favour of the Chairman of the Committee. Whoever we vote on will be the chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u39	Thank you. Please sit down for a while. Sergey Anatolyovich Teryohin, head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, it's time! For what time is “a long time ”? First of all, for those people who don't need an element of democracy as an independent parliamentary committee. Well, don't you understand what this is about? Draft Tax Code No. 2 has been introduced into the Supreme Council. The first, and in my share, was canceled. Now came the second project. It is necessary that, to the extreme extent, through the committee, he gets the full “goodwill”. I will not be like that, so it is necessary to set up a “hand beast”. [[(Applause) Noise in the Hall]] Now let me do the official part of my report in accordance with the Rules that are now being violated in the five articles, but I would like to do the official part. The committee has established control over the implementation of 78 valid laws. In addition, more than 128 tax laws are being monitored. In March 2008, the committee’s decision created a public college of 50 members of the Association of United Trade Unions. By the way, the only committee college that operates on a permanent basis. Now, please, pay attention. According to the committee’s schedule for the sixth session, 66 meetings of the committee were held, including one outgoing meeting. Only one other committee, another that held more meetings than ours. 292 questions, including 231 bills, were discussed at the committee meeting. There are 154 projects on September 8th on the committee's work. From the beginning of the call, there have been 368 bills, which are the highest indicator among the Economic and Financial Committees of the Supreme Council. Well, let's say the budget that's closer to you is 174. We have 368. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has passed 33 laws for the Committee, which is the second indicator among the Ukrainian Economic and Financial Committees. In addition, 40 round tables, working meetings, and 4 international conferences were held, and 3 of them were held abroad. We have, say, 18 people's deputies. We have practically always a quorum, no matter what opposition or coalition there is. So, dear friends, once again: it was a long time ago. By the way, I am absolutely. Sir, Vasiliev! Mr. Vasiliev! Mr. Vasiliev, can you pay attention to me? I am very grateful for your report, no paws, from the heart, because I understand how uncomfortable it was for you to be standing in this rostrum. To the extreme, I can tell you that we have a committee quite friendly. By the way, the walls of Parliament and the families are familiar. But when people come in here and sit in their faction, well, there's some aggressive gang. From the paradox! So let me finish the official part. Since I still have time to talk a little bit about why I'm getting fired: for that document. We received two days ago a document called Tax Code No.2. And they got an eclectic meeting of old standards, made up of new “hotels ” of big business and the onset of small business. I was able to read this Tax Code in two days. And I can tell you that, well, maybe even worse, the Tax Code was a pattern, if I'm not mistaken, in 1997 or 1998. At the Master of the Desert, he was squirming. The author was also Mr. Azarov as head of the State Tax Service. Nothing has changed since then. Look, let's say we're reading the glossary: the definition of terms. This codex is made to be codified. So let's say it's in paragraph 14.1. 298 sub-items, instilled concepts that conflict with both civil law and the Code of Lords and professional laws. We've been told that you've conducted administrations, taken unacceptable frauds and so on, exactly. But they left a few of these hidden interests behind. We today have a rule of conflict of interest, which, if there is disagreement in legislation, is always the right taxpayer. This rule does not, in fact, exist now, as it adds, “unless otherwise defined by the appeal procedure, i.e. by the tax authority”. On the return of his novices. It is written in such a language and standards that have no bearing on international accounting and financial accounting standards. Let's say they're taking off our income tax on one side, and on the other, they're introducing sixteen instead of four groups of depreciations. Thus, by squeezing, in fact, non-monetary enterprises, such as banks, financial institutions, and increasing the tax burden on investment activities. These are your ideas. Tax on the income of natural persons. We've got him today. Because taxes are being paid, well, 10 percent of the citizens of the declaration per year. After that, what's proposed is 100 percent of the citizens will go back to the Tax Service, as was the case in the past. Then let's say the value added tax is a single song, there's pearls on the pearls. It's supposed to be us. Well, some anecdotes I'll tell you in the end. So I could say, let's say it's written like this, it's written that banks will never be tax payers when they're intermediaries in any kind of bond. It's written, let's say, once again, a proportional way of getting illegal compensation, that's illegal compensation, that's going to go on. So let's say that honest taxpayers, the criteria are so set out that they're going to have to queue, pay bribes to the tax office to get you on that list. There is a reference to CWED, a sublegal act, when aid is granted to a village that is not allowed at all and is prohibited by a decision of the Constitutional Court. By the way, very interestingly, those who wrote this block of agriculture probably didn't teach botanic biology because. Let me quote, this agriculture is written, this is the breeding of snakes, reptiles, snails and other ground mammals. I never knew the snail was a ground mammal. Well, maybe there's a time when she'll get a good touch, isn't there? Environmental taxes are introduced. Absolute values in bracelets are not bound to the value of products that corrupt ecology. This is a misunderstanding of environmental congregations at all. Renty, let's suppose. Do you know what rent for a ton of oil production? Today it's 147.63 on pay, $18.5 instead of, well, 547. And for a cube of gas, let's say $5 at the average price of $223. Of course, what does this mean? For Furtash's lie or, I don't know, for. Is that the difference between a citizen's tariff and the cost of gas in the pockets somewhere? Let's say one more. One anecdote: they said it'd be a tax hike since the 14th year, you know, let's say? On airplanes, 50 copies of a kilogram of weight are timeless. Well, just to be clear, Jet, which costs, the basic price of 8 million euros, will pay 5,000 dollars a year. Imagine. And so on. I mean, in summary, I can promise you, wherever I'm going, and in what position, I won't let these amateurs get away with the tax thing. And maybe once again, for me, it's even better to be removed formally from this terrible document. But last but not least, we've discovered Pandora's hedgehog, and for the first time in 16 years it's happening. This standard is used when the head is called.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u41	Please let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u42	Head of the committee, among other things, with a more severe violation of the Rules. That way we can. You can, just make one decision, by one vote of all the representatives from the opposition to throw out all the committees, let the opposition go on unpaid vacation, and work on your own. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the question. Any questions? Give me five minutes to ask. Please sign up for the question. Vladimir Moisik, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u44	Vladimir Moisik, Party “For Ukraine!” Please pass the word to your colleague Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u45	Ruslan Knyazevich, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u46	Dear Sergey Anatolyovich! Do I have, first of all, a question, did you accidentally or accidentally submit an alternative project for the union of committees? I think it's some kind of mistake on your part. And the second question. Please tell me, if this has happened, that you really have a very good human relationship, then considering what the majority in the committee have decided to take away from you in fact, because you, if there are most other political views, essentially have nothing to do with you. Because voting takes place by majority, most make decisions, and you are obliged to sign. What is the point of the conflict, certainly not the decision the committee should make? Maybe there are some things you don't want to tell us about, so let's open all the cards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u47	Okay. You know, on the second question, I have one bad trait, I love laws, and when I love laws, I don't sign any decisions if they conflict with laws or regulatory procedures. The same Tax Code cannot be adopted by the end of the year without violating regulatory procedures. And by the way, I'm going to send you all, according to the rules, the timeline is the fastest one that can be applied. There is no budget for the following year in this new Tax Code, there can be no reason why such a leader should be their first. Second, about your first question. Another trait is a sense of humor. It was written by Mr. MacKeenko that let's send out a tax committee with financials, despite the fact that there's twice as much burden on the tax committee as there is on the tax committee, twice as much. I wrote, let's do that, if you want that logic, let's do it the other way around, but because of what we can't do and what we can't do, I suggested in my ruling, look, throw out the regulatory committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u48	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u49	The words “deputy ethics” in relation to the absence of a subject of regulation in this room, you understand. Clearly, it was a stalk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u50	Vladimir Bondarenko, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u51	Mr. Sergio, Vladimir Bondarenko, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", Party "Reforms and Orders". There are now hundreds or thousands of people on the street who are asking representatives of today’s coalition to explain to them the essence of the document that we are discussing today. Because they don’t understand it, and they won’t understand what you’re saying anymore. But I would like to make one message that I think is shocking to the whole world today. As soon as the Constitutional Court of Ukraine cancelled the flight of reform, I think that the next act of this court and this authority will be the annulment of the Ukrainian independence act. I think the next step will be to evict the Ukrainians to Siberia, because a friendly neighbouring state will do so with my grandparents at the age of 30. I think that this authority leads us to take other measures in Ukraine, because they don't just go through the Constitution, they go through Ukrainian heads, they go through moral and ethical standards at all. What's going on, we haven't lived in six years.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u52	Mr. Volodymyr, I have nothing to say to you. The only thing I can say is that you see how talented it is, one day two of these sad events: the cancellation of the polytreform and the removal of Teryochina.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u53	Victor Terrence, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, with Yanukovich coming today, everyone in Ukraine is losing something -- it's objective. People come to the store and lose more money on products, we all lose our sovereignty, we lose our freedom of speech, we lose our basic notions of the justice of the MP's ethics of keeping the Rules in this room. And so when we lose Ukraine like that today, we see what's still going on in this committee hall about the committee heads, about the committee members. And I have a very simple question for you. Please tell me: Do you not think that this is just the end of this weed that started against you earlier today, even though in connection with the articles on the Internet, your beautiful publicist performances in the press?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u55	Let's not dig so deep. It seems to me that there is a more primitive reason: we need to stretch what cannot be accepted in common sense in the Supreme Council. That's it. And me, so I'm not a good person for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u56	People's MP Lemza, BUTT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u57	Please give the floor to colleague Semerko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u58	A colleague? Seberyakov? I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u59	Ostap Semerak, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, “Reforms and Orders”. Dear Sergey Terjochin, it is clear that this is a matter for you personally, over the committee's head of principle. I have the impression that you've organized an excellent committee. It seems to me that this is something that is uncomfortable for a coalition that has a majority in the committee. I understand that most of the committee is formed by a coalition of regions, the Lithuanian Block and Communists. It is the majority of the committee, not you who are responsible for the content of the committee’s work. So I have a question: what kind of tax policy will the coalition form after your possible resignation, that is, without you?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u60	Don't even think about it! I'm not a psychiatrist, I don't know.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u61	Yuri Carmazin, last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u62	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland’s Defenders Dear Mr. Terjehohin, I support you and have repeatedly been to your committee meeting and I confirm that you are leading a committee and you are trespassing on documents. As a person who peers into a document, he would like to hear your thoughts. First. About what I asked yesterday to give me an answer from the head of the Ukrainian government, Azarov, who does not accept the national deputy Karmazin, and apparently many other deputies do not accept the opposition, and did not accept the governors. I'd like to ask if it's really true that now the National Bank has released 61 billion dollars of emissions and how it's going to affect, and is it not going to be that scary word that I don't want to say that was in Russia called the default. But there's oil and everything, and we don't have it. And what you think is that you need to look at the Catherynchuk Tax Code now, not this codex because.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u63	Well, thank you, I'm probably taking the last chance to ask professional questions to the committee head. I could say September 1st is national. The increase, the planned increase in the national bank's money supply, was 16, if I'm not mistaken and 7 percent. This is more than 2 percent more than the annual plan, this is September 1st. What's been going on since September 1st, I don't know, because the government's deployment of UDP is going through, you know, absolutely closed, there's no open auctions, and how is the refinancing going: either directly through the National Bank, or through the underlying commercial banks, then which are returning Nitzbank through the repositories of these bonds, I don't know, because you can't find this information.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u64	But the number is correct?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u65	The number is valid.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u66	Yes, thank you. Time's up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u67	Thank you. Good-bye.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. We've used 30 minutes as required by the Rules. I'm putting to the vote the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 70. May I have your attention, please? I would like to vote on the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine amending the decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of heads, first deputies, deputy heads, secretaries, members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth vocation and election of the head, first deputy, deputy heads, secretary and members of the Special Supervisory Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of privatization. [[Registration number 7158]] [[11:35:50.]] For 253 Decision taken. The factions. Region Party – 170, Block Timoshenko – 2, Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense – 10, Communists – 27, Block of Lithuania – 19, non-fractional – 25. I'm announcing it. Please, from factions one minute at a time with a motive. Vladimir Bondarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u69	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. Dear colleagues, dear friends, I have just provided the hall with provocative information about the Constitutional Court's decision. I wondered what the reaction would be. I've seen some people on the steering platform get shot, and I've seen great joy among the regionals and Communists over the possible decision to abolish reform. I have seen the concern of those who are in opposition. But I realize what people think. You can read statistics where the vast majority of Ukrainian citizens are against such cancellations. If the Constitutional Court were to do so, it would be the collapse of all fundamentals of statehood in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm giving you operational and final information that the Constitutional Court has just begun its consideration of this matter. There is no solution to this question, so I would ask you not to look for excuses. So far, there's no reason to get excited. Yes, I'm announcing for review, honorary colleagues, draft decree, registration number 6231, 7112. Rapporteur of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladimir Volodymyrovich Makeinko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u71	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! At its meeting on 22 September this year, the Committee considered a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine amending the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine "On the election of heads, first deputies, representatives of heads, secretaries, members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth vocation and election of the head, first deputy, deputy heads, secretary and members of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of privatization", submitted by the National Deputies of Ukraine Abdullinim, Kondratuk, Bagraev, Ukolov, at number 6231 from 29.03. 2010 The initiators of the draft decision propose to select the Ukrainian national deputy Shevchenko Andrija Vitaliyovich, a member of the deputy faction “Clocus of Yulia Timoshenko”, the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Freedom of Word and Information, freeing him from the duties of the first deputy head of the same committee. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u72	And by the second order, please, Decree 7112. Okay. Dear colleagues! I'm asking for your attention! Please sign up for a question five minutes after the first draft of the ruling. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Anatoly Matvienko, faction “Our Ukraine — National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u73	Mr. Volodymyr! Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” block. Please tell me you're saving it for a quota. As soon as you took away the budget quota and didn't ask, you didn't even try to reconcile these problems. You now offer Mr. Shevchenk. Please tell me, is there an official application from the B.U.T. of this candidature? And is there an official decision of the faction? If you have considered it, in what way have you considered it? And who is recommended by the BIT faction, for example, by its quota? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u74	Thank you, Anatoly Sergiyovich. I'll draw your attention once again to the fact that this submission was made by the people's deputies from the BUT faction: Abdulinim, Condratjuk, Bagraev, Ukolov. Number 6231. [[B in m in s a l in]] And that's an answer to more journalists who don't have any usurpation of power. And the opposition insisted that they be handed over to the Committee on Freedom of Speech. We will soon have a delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and they want to say: “See what authority does! It does not give us the Committee of Freedom of Speech.” We have decided on their application to the committee, and we propose that we vote on it. That's why. The attitude of you personally, Anatoly Sergiyovich, we have also made a decision, I will report on your move from one committee. The Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u75	Yuri Karmazin, faction “Our Ukraine — National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u76	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. I ask you to pass the word to Andrew Kožemyakin. And as long as they pass on the word, I'd like to hear it and what it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u77	Andrew Kozemyakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u78	Dear Vladimir Volodymyrovich, I would like to say, first of all, the submission you have is from the deputies of our faction. But there is indeed a regulatory norm, a legal norm – article 82, part one, where it requires that the signature be given to the head of the Supreme Council or to your head. address. must be at the head of the faction. The faction did not consider this question. We have nothing against our colleague Andrija Volodymyrovich, but the faction requires that this issue be accepted by the faction, not by the way you like it, because even if you talk to journalists, it's about the knee again as soon as it's with Mr. Teryochin. So, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, once again we urge the faction to remove this issue today and move it to next week after ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u79	Father’s name is Shevchenko Andry Vitaliyovich, not Volodymyrovich. This is the first time. Secondly, apart from the draft decision registered by your colleagues, there is an explanatory memorandum, which they also signed. Journalists, attention: Here are two of their papers.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u80	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u81	Oleg Zarubinski, People’s Party Dear Vladimir Volodymyrovich, an explanation from me. Maybe I'm a naive person. I don't know what the intrigue is. What's going on now? There is an application for a decent person, by the way, the principle of man. We believe that the Committee on Information and Freedom of Speech should be led by a representative of the opposition -- that's normal. What are you playing at? What are you playing at? So some provocations are said in the session room. It's not a gravel pit! Take responsibility for your words, I'm sorry. Vladimir Volodymyrovich, explain to me what we have against Andrey Shevchenk for this position that we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u82	More than that. Thank you for asking. I would like to remind the National Deputies that the previous chairman of this committee was a representative of the Hanna Herman Regional Party. We're going to meet the opposition, we're putting them to the vote. Well, I just can't call it that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u83	Alexander Steshenko, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u84	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! You know, we don't need to be put on public auctions. When you're riding off the left bank on Patton's famous bridge, and there's our head on board: "Choose the normal ones." Let's work normally. What are you doing?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, it was, as I understand it, a wish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u86	Yeah, that's a wish, that's not a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I'm betting on a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Change the vote. Please, let's give the factions a minute, let's take a look at the question. Please, let's go from the factions. From the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" Alexander Bondar, please. Then it's from the BUT faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u88	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, let's speak frankly, in fact, the head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech is now a coalition. She'll vote for him. It turns out it's a coalition representative, not an opposition. Because the opposition has not put him up and will not vote for him. So all the talk about you going to a meeting of opposition and approving a representative for this position, it might actually be for someone, but it's not for us. So if you want to have a representative of the opposition in this committee, you have to wait for the faction to be filed. Otherwise, this candidature is a virtually coalition purchase and becomes a representative. It's lo. It's completely understandable to everyone. And we don't have to tell you that this is a step towards meeting the opposition.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u89	Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u90	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, especially members of the coalition, who suddenly demanded that opposition should be given that office. You know, the Rules provide that in addition to the Committee on Freedom of Speech mentioned above, you should have given up ten more committees. But you've taken what's left of the opposition today and you're throwing what you see, what a democracy we are. There's no filing from the faction, so we don't have to buy our people. Tomorrow you can assign any of us to any other committee and tell them that you are in favor of the opposition. Dear voters, it's a banal pharaoh, it's a game. Vladimir Vladimirovich Makeenko admitted why they're playing this game because the PARE delegation is coming, and they want to show what big Democrats they are. Therefore, contrary to the requirements of the Rules, contrary to the factions, they take and display the way they hold the rights of opposition. Andrew Shevchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u91	Finish up, please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u92	Andrey Shevchenko is a worthy representative of our faction, and we will be sure to have him take this position, but let's follow the procedure for filing the procedure, by filing the faction. We don't need to.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u93	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinski, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u94	Oleg Zarubinski, People’s Party Dear colleagues, I say, and I've come to realize that this is just some kind of game. They're intrigues, completely meaningless intrigues, and they're misplaced. Why? Since it is not a person on the side of the proposal, it is proposed that a person who has served as chairman of the committee for several months. Do we not give much attention to political appointments? A person assumes the responsibilities of head of the committee, why not now allow him to work full - time? And the second time someone says that you can buy someone, I mean, don't judge yourself. I'm sure Andrew Schewchenka won't be bought. And not everyone buys, by the way. For the record, not everyone buys. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u95	Please, Your Honor, calm down, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u96	Thank you. You know, from Oleg Lazko's statement, you can assume that you're waiting for the PARE representatives to say that we're like this, we don't. We've been asking you for three months. You don't give, you go to the West for three months, and you say they usurped power. Yesterday there was a meeting of the interim commission of inquiry, chaired by Ira Gerashchenko, there was a deputy, a full committee, and we, and you, all voted in favour of Chevchenko's nomination. In the fifth call, the chairman of the commission, the committee, in the sixth assembly, is the first deputy. And no other last name for the whole sixth call you've never talked about. Now your representatives are telling you that let's put it in place, you know, we've even got a meeting to crash all the time. Andrew says I'm not the president you need. And we walk, we can't solve any questions. So there will be no meetings, there will be no protection of freedom.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u97	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u98	You're doing this concert. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, is there an insistence on the faction of Communists? None. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I'll just say one thing. It's a shame that in the heat of these political battalions we're going to humiliate, I think, the forward-looking politician of Andrey Shevchenk. I've spoken and suggested in this room over and over again, let's pick it out. It's public all the time. Why didn't you call him off? So I'd like to ask, let's stop this shameful practice. We destroy each other's trust. I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on amendments to the Supreme Council Decision “On the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Representatives of Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Sixth Call and Election of Heads, First Deputy, Deputy Heads, Secretary, Members of the Special Supervisory Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Privatisation”, namely the election of Shevchenko Andrija Vitaliyyovich, National Deputy of Ukraine from the multi-mandatory public constituency of the “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, the faction of “Clock of the Yulia Timoshenko” by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issues of freedom of speech and information. [[Registration number 6231]] Please vote. [[11:51:53]] For 373 Let's welcome, honourable colleagues, the heads of the committees that we have just chosen -- and Homutinika Vitalia and Andrey Shevchenka -- and wish them a successful job. Next project of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Registration number 7112]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee, Vladimir MacKeenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u100	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! At its meeting on September 8, 2010, the Committee considered and supported the submission of a parliamentary faction of the Party of the Regions and a statement by the Ukrainian national deputy Gusarov to elect him as the first deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy by releasing him from the duties of deputy head of the committee. The other one. A statement by Ukrainian national deputy Bondarenko Viktorovich, a member of the Party of the Regions’ deputized faction to elect him as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Transport and Communications, relieved him of his duties as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations, and made a decision. Third. Statement by the National MP, Mr. Anatoly Sergiyyovich, a member of the Ukrainian Parliamentary faction "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" on his election as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations, relieved of the duties of a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u101	Dear colleagues! Is there no objection to the vote? I'm betting on a draft Supreme Council decision to adopt it as a decision to elect the members of the Committees Sergio Mikolaiovich Husarov, Matvienka Anatolia Sergiojevic and Bondarenko Viktorovich, right? [[Registration number 7112]] That's the 7112 Bill as the Order. Please vote. [[11:54:22]] For 325 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Just a minute. There is such an offer, since we spent an hour in consultations, let's not take a break and work on a lot of issues today. For reasons, please, Andrew Cosemiakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u102	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the matter is that the honourable director of the regulatory committee, then let us be open to the end and vote those co-conspirators who today violate the Law on Rules and those who have been in power for eight months and have not left Parliament because they are: (a) afraid; (b) They may like to sit in one, they say, seat on two chairs. So I say again, unfortunately, I don't have a last name right now, but that's eight deputies from the ruling coalition. Please let Vladimir Volodymyrovich explain, if possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u103	I ask the committee to prepare this matter for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Now we're going to have another debate. Dear colleagues, we need to consider a number of draft regulations concerning the holding of parliamentary hearings. First, this is the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on “Ukraine’s External Policy: Gains, Realities and Prospects” on February 9, 2011. [[Registration number 6620]] Please support the proposal to consider this issue with a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:56:14]] For-200. Decision taken. The reporter is National Deputy Andrew Schlell, co-rapporteur Oleg Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u104	Dear fellow national MPs! Dear Lord Chairman! I would like to explain very briefly the need for such hearings. You know that the international environment in which Ukraine is now implementing its foreign policy and protecting its national interests has changed significantly in recent times. The results of these changes were new challenges, new tasks for Ukraine, ahead of the Ukrainian foreign policy course. And we just can't stop discussing these issues. And in recent years, there have also been numerous challenges not only to the outside but also to the inside: change in power in Ukraine, change in relationships. And I think that the parliamentary form of hearing, the very parliamentary form of discussion -- clearly, professionally, professionally -- will enable and enable society to understand what are the external political perspectives and course of Ukraine, and the parliamentarians themselves, and most importantly, our partners will hear about it in both the East and the West. I believe that if Ukraine's foreign policy tasks are successful, it is necessary to define as clearly as possible the future format of its relations with NATO, which means optimizing regional security, developing a regional conflict management mechanism, and aligning relations with the Russian Federation on a safe scale. That is why I believe that is the purpose and purpose of these parliamentary hearings. February 9th is a free day from other parliamentary hearings. And I'm actually going to the controlling faction, the faction that made up the majority, to support the Party of Regions. Although it is rumored that you will make a different decision. But believe me, there is no danger in this discussion. I think it's right here in Parliament that we need to discuss this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u105	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u106	I would like to call on representatives of the governing coalition to support such hearings, because believe me, it is not in the interests of opposition or power -- it is in the interests of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u107	Thank you. First Deputy Head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Taras Czarnovil, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u108	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! Our committee considered this draft decision on the holding of parliamentary hearings in its first version, and we really had a warning at the time that there might not be a problem for the Supreme Council, because it was still suggested that this session should be heard, it is clear that all the days have been completely occupied. We reviewed, held consultations with the Regulatory Committee, set the day off on February 9, 2011. Questions were also raised regarding two points that had become irrelevant in view of the Supreme Council’s adoption of the Law on the Principles of Internal and External Policy. As a result, it was registered in the Supreme Council for a replacement, a new edition that does not contain any of these regulations that may have triggered either regulatory or political warnings. The text that is proposed is for the Supreme Council, in my view, absolutely convenient, necessary and constitutionally balanced. We're shaping Ukraine's foreign policy, it's being implemented together with the President, together with the government, but the role of the Supreme Council is decisive. There is no question of any political nuances that may cause turmoil, we need a light, adopted by the Supreme Council, a new edition of the principles of external and internal politics to shape the position of the Supreme Council, to determine also what laws we need to adopt as we need to introduce the system of the same parliamentary diplomacy that is actively going on today, but it is very chaotic. With what countries, how to develop relationships, where, say, we have problems in our neighborhood, and how the Supreme Council can react in its own way. And this is the best way to talk about it at these hearings. Just listening to foreign policy, we have seen more than once, not having a politically vicious conflict. At these hearings, usually, as we say in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, consensus and joint decision - making begin to prevail. Therefore, since the new edition does not contain controversial provisions, I do have a request to all of them to support the draft decision and to share it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u109	You all have it, don't you? If there is a need to exchange ideas about this, please. No, I'll put it to a vote. Who insists on the performance? I can't see. Yes. Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, in order to dismantle the Supreme Council in order of the parliamentary hearings of the day, I would suggest that Ukraine's foreign policy, gains, realities and prospects be placed on committee hearings for the Foreign Policy Committee. Committee hearings today are more effective and more fruitful than parliamentary hearings in the session room. In the session room, sooner or later, we're going to have to ask questions about another parliamentary hearing -- what we've agreed with you -- about the state and prospects of the pension system in Ukraine. And this is a question, and I'm going to make another suggestion, and I'm going to ask the author to agree to ask this question with such an order of the day for consideration by the Foreign Policy Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u111	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u112	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing you with this view of this issue. First. We need to discuss issues and conduct matters both in foreign policy and in the implementation of the Law on the Principles of Internal and External Politics, and predict what will happen? If this is happening now, and in the Constitutional Court, well, that's, you know, the smell of blood. Here's the deal. People, I call to you today and to the power, to the coalition, to the prime minister who doesn't listen to the deputies, to him there is no MP, to the president. And I say: “Don’t you realize that the Constitution in which the President adopted the oath simply cannot be annulled?!" First. And the second. Do you not realize that the people have given authority to just how much, how much was foreseen for the President's election day? That's two. And the third. In case you or your hands are canceled, with the hands of constitutional judges, because there's a bunch of weddings. You know everyone who's there, I won't tell you clearly. Yes, if that reform is to be lifted, we need to announce the new election of the President of Ukraine with the powers that we once had in Kuchma, which we once adopted in this room in 1996. I'd like us to discuss these issues and these dangers here in the hall, if necessary, in private. You see what's happening in Ukraine's economy? That we are in danger of default, Ukraine. Let's discuss the issue here, not in negotiations with the World Bank. Let not the World Bank determine what and where to move Ukraine, let the Ukrainian Parliament through doing the will of the Ukrainian people do and go, and determine where to go. Therefore, honourable national deputies, let us make decisions, discuss them, but keep in mind those.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u113	Stepan Kurpill, BUT faction, please, your microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u114	Stepan Kurpil, the “BUT” faction, the “Fatherland” party. Dear National Deputies! Rapid systemic changes in global and regional policy have created new challenges for Ukraine. That is why holding parliamentary hearings on foreign policy is relevant not only to the Supreme Council but also to the entire Ukrainian society. The basic and tragic shortcomings of the Ukrainian foreign policy course were and remain incoherence and uncertainty. During the twentieth year of Ukrainian independence in the world, it is not possible to understand which civilizational vector of development has chosen Ukraine, Europe, or Asia. In words like European, in practice and in practice, Asian. The current presidential team is making a run from the policy of multi-species politics to the policy of vertigo or underraciality. Isn't that why, without a proper debate in Parliament, the well-established coalition voted on July 1, 2010, in favour of the Law on the Principles of Internal and External Policy, in fact, for the Russian Federation's agreement with a single purpose: to dismantle the National Security Fundamentals Act, for which the Party of the Regions voted in 2003. I recall this law envisioned Ukraine's introduction to NATO. During the parliamentary hearings, I think we need to find out why Ukraine's negotiations with the European Union on association, on the outside, on the free trade area, on visa-free regime, have actually come to a dead end. How do we unlock this process? It is understandable that foreign policy is closely linked to the internal one. If we continue to keep our eyes closed to non-compliance with the principles of democracy, to the pressures of freedom of speech, to the blocking of the Party of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u115	Let me finish, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u116	To block the “Fatherland” party from participating in local elections in Lvivska, Kiev and in some other areas, there is no doubt any progress in our European integration can be expected.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u117	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings has been completed. I am voting on a proposal for a committee to adopt a draft Ordinance on Parliamentary Hearings on “Ukraine's External Policy: Winning, Realities and Prospects” on February 9, 2011 as a decision. [[Registration number 6620]] Please vote. [[12:07:54]] For–129 The decision is not supported. I have an offer, colleagues of honor, to the author and to the committee. To return to the consideration of this matter. Let's have a look. And since this refers to the next session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it is obvious that we will be able to return to this decision. Otherwise, there will be extended committee hearings on this subject. If the committee so agrees, then the Secretariat must ensure that the committee hearings are prepared and conducted. The subject is very important. Dear colleagues! A draft Decision on the 60th anniversary of the signing of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of 1950 and other measures to mark this event in Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 7125]] There is a suggestion to consider this issue in a simplified way. [[12:09:08]] For – 204 Decision taken. The reporter is Litwin. And the co-reporter is the head of the Human Rights Committee subcommittee, the national smaller and inter-national relations of Pavelenko Eduardo Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, allow me briefly to inform you that, in order to implement the relevant recommendations and in view of the fact that the 60th anniversary of the signing of the 1950 Convention on the Protection of Human Rights in Rome on 4 November 2010, a number of measures are proposed in Ukraine on this subject, taking into account the fact that Ukraine has signed the c. convention. And if we analyze the development history of the human rights issue, take our entire historical segment and get out of the positions that are set out in this document, we can conclude that we have huge traditions that we don't notice and properly do not put into our lives. In this connection, it is proposed that October 22nd – this is Friday, at 2.30 p.m. in the Supreme Council of Ukraine to hold an appropriate ceremony, in which, if supported by such a decision, representatives of international structures, including those concerned with freedom of speech, will be able to exchange ideas on this subject, and a number of other measures are proposed. This question is also agreed with the Human Rights Commissioner of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. However, at the request of the Authorized One, it is proposed that the date be set at 22 numbers for the Authorized One to have the opportunity to participate fully in all these activities. I ask the Supreme Council to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u119	Please, Edward Ivanovich from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u120	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! On September 22, 2010, at its meeting, the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations reviewed the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the commemoration of the 60th anniversary of the signing of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of 1950 and other measures to commemorate the event in Ukraine by the National Deputy of Ukraine, President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mr. Lithuania Volodymyr Mihailovich. [[Registration number 7125]] The committee supports the initiative to commemorate in Ukraine the 60th anniversary of the signing of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The 1950 Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms became the main instrument of ratification that allowed Ukraine to integrate into the European system of human rights protection. The convention is of great practical importance for the consolidation of democracy and human rights and freedoms in Ukraine. One detail. The committee proposes to amend the fourth paragraph of the decree, in particular to make it available in the following edition: “Propose the Authorised Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights to speak at a ceremony of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with a special report on the occasion of the 60th anniversary of the proclamation of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of 1950.” In the light of this amendment, the Committee approved the recommendation to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt a decree on the occasion of the 60th anniversary of the signing of the 1950 Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and other measures to mark this event in Ukraine as a whole. [[Registration number 7125]] Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, if there is a need to discuss, please sign up. Victor Terrence, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, the celebration of the anniversary of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights must take place, but it must not be pompous, and this must be a specific, substantive discussion about the observance of human rights in today’s Ukraine. I've already said today that with Janukovich's coming to power, everyone has lost something: who, materially, because prices are rising, the older women have lost hope of rest, because in this Hall, the Party of Regions voted against the moratorium on the increase of retirement age, we all lose the sovereignty of the state as we lose the Sevastopol, we lose and lose the remainder of democracy, because there is no doubt that the Donetsk Constitutional Court without the people, without Parliament will overpower Yanuković with the powers of the king or Führer, in Ukraine prevails. Gambling, in Ukraine there is an era of Tobacco, which has made himself a colonel and has indeed become a “black colonel” at the queen of Ukrainian education and spirituality. And that's why there's got to be a big debate about what's going on in Ukraine. And it should be attended to by ordinary and ordinary people who have nothing to live for, and people who are the consciences of the nation, such as Lena Costenko or Yuri Musketik, and the invited Leukko Lukyanenko, brothers of Goren. And another important moment. When there were parliamentary hearings in this room across Ukraine, our Ukrainian brothers from Russia, from Canada, from Poland, from the United States, from around the world, and there was only no member of the Party of Regions. So there is no hope that the deputies will come and have this conversation about human rights, for these are not the rights of their pockets. And that would call on the entire Ukrainian community, the community, the citizens to join in the popular human rights talk in Ukraine, and it would be round tables, rallying, it would be a national demonstration of our determination to defend, until it's too late, and the person and our Ukraine itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u123	Vladimir Karpuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u124	Please hand over the deputy Carmazin. We have an idea with him.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u125	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. I am authorized by both Volodymyr Karpuk and other members of our faction to express our position on this matter. We believe it should be held, Vladimir Mikhailovich, a special session. It does not have to be called a solemn meeting. Because we need to discuss, there are problems, and these are the same problems we need to discuss. As a result, the second point, Vladimir Mikhajlovich, and in the title should be written not “festive” but “special meeting” probably; and the second paragraph, “recommend the Government of Ukraine to take the appropriate decision on the marking”, should be “to prepare a report to the Government on the implementation of this convention in Ukraine”. And I would like to help you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, in the preparations and the committees that will prepare. So we were given the result of an analysis of the main problems in the organization of judicial work and how to solve them. We quote what is stated on page 19 of the Court of Auditors, which states that “the failure to enforce judicial decisions has become a menacing feature and a tendency not only for the legal system but also for the economic system of the country; the risks of failure to respect the constitutional principles of the independence of the courts have increased in the part of the obligation to enforce court decisions, including in the area of budgetary relations. The government's policy of not taking into account the debt of judicial decisions and their failure or limitations has been systemsless and aimed at combating the consequences, not at eliminating its causes.” Moreover, it says here that budget assignments are not foreseen for these purposes. So we talk about human rights is one thing, and real respect for human rights is another. We are not compensated for the damage caused by what should be called law enforcement. We've already reached the pen in this regard. And that's why we need an honest, honest conversation, Vladimir Mikhailovich. And you have to change that resolve a little bit.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u126	Thank you. Ivan Popescu, please, microphone. And please, MPs, we will now decide on the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u127	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. First, Mr. Taran replied when he said that there were no representatives of the Party of the Regions during the parliamentary hearings on the situation of foreigners. I was a deputy head back then, and I'm a member of the Party of Regions. That's right, for the record. Second, with regard to the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the occasion of the 60th anniversary of the signing of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of 1950 and other arrangements for the definition of the event in Ukraine, the Party of Regions will support the holding of a solemn event and will support the draft decree as reported by Mr. Pavlenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, who else insists on the performance? None. Then it's me. I've been from a faction, you can't. No, no, dear colleagues, one of the factions can. Jaroslav Kenzier, what are you? Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with a clarification: on a special session, and then on with the text. [[Registration number 7125]] Please vote. With one comment: “for a special meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine”. [[12:19:46]] For -321. I'll take the order. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are going to consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2010 on the order of acquisition of shares of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine. [[Registration number 6550]] Suggestion: To consider the matter under reduced procedure. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u129	I understand. I understand, like your insistence, all these questions. [[12:20:23]] For-180. Decision taken. To note that this is a serious issue, there is a proposal in all civilised parliaments to work until the list of issues identified is exhausted. But there is no man at lunchtime on this side. So let's be calm in this regard, including you. The rapporteur is the National Deputy of Ukraine, Alexy Zuravko, co-rapporteur, Head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Mikola Derkac. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, I would like to support the Naftogaz NAC of 7 million. Seven billion 400 million. This bill is necessary for NAC “Neftegaza” in order to stabilize the situation during the winter period. I have a strong belief that he must be supported. I'd ask the whole room to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u131	Head of the Committee on Budgeting Mr. Mikola Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u132	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, invited! The Budget Committee will consider a bill to amend Ukraine’s State Budget for 2010, submitted by National MP Zuravk at number 6550. The bill is proposed to increase the volume of domestic borrowings and the corresponding marginal volume of government debt to increase the purchase volume of state-owned shares of the additional national shareholding campaign Naftogaz Ukraine in exchange for an internal government loan of 10.4 billion dollars. The bill is balanced in terms of the State Budget figures, but it does not take into account the changes made to the State Budget 2010 Act in June-July of this year, following the registration of such a bill in the Supreme Council. According to an expert opinion by Minfin, the adoption of the bill does not affect the revenue and expenditure of the budget in the current year, but will result in an increase in the expenditure on public debt repayment and servicing in the next budget period. It should be noted that the NAC Naftogaz Ukraine's 2010 financial plan was approved by the Government's decision of 4 August this year and entrusted to the Ministry of Finance during the preparation of the changes to the State Budget 2010 Act to provide for the issuance of domestic government loans of 7.4 billion dollars and the subsequent acquisition of government property in exchange for these bonds of additional NAC shares “Naftogaz Ukraine”. In view of the above, the bill is sent to the Budget Committee for proposals that take into account the position of this government decision, i.e. the right of the Cabinet of Ministers to make such an issue in the amount of 7.4 billion dollars instead of 10.4 billion dollars. According to the draft law, the majority of the national members of the Committee on Budget Affairs were recommended.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u133	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u134	The Supreme Council will adopt draft law number 6550 on the basis and in general, taking into account the changes made in the letter submitted by the committee, but it is given to you separately. In particular, to provide for NAC Naftogaz Ukraine to issue bonds with an increase in government debt of 7.4 billion dollars instead of the previously proposed 10.4 billion dollars, as well as to align the bill with the last edition of the State Budget 2010 Act. In the event of the adoption of such a bill, the budget committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, should be entrusted with the text of the law and with the necessary editorial and technical legal clarification related to the changes. Such proposals are in agreement with the author of the bill and the government. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u135	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Shall we discuss it? Please: two-for, two-again. Please, Arjovitin, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u136	Of course, the financial situation is difficult in this company, but it's a shame that we're looking at, in fact, at a reduced procedure, because the author's explanatory note and the committee don't say anything about the main things. And what sources will be the fulfillment of what is proposed? On the one hand, the Cabinet of Ministers issues bonds, on the other hand, Naftogaz issues securities. They're exchanging, but they're paper. Where is the real money? And I would like to ask the authors and heads of the committee: What course will be chosen? Because the law says, in the project, it's going to be bought into state property. I understand it's in Ukrainian state property. The word “Ukrainian property” must not have been missed here on purpose. So I think this is about Ukrainian property. That's the first one. I'd just like to focus on that. And the second. If it's government property, as for me, the financier, there are four sources, it's a stable fund for the Cabinet of Ministers. They should have said, if it's from a stable fund, where 40 billion are earmarked for banking sector reform. That's one source. If this is a ransom through the Savings Bank, which already has 16 billion in its balance of credits that it has, it was loaded by Naftogaz, that's another conversation. If the language goes through the hidden issue of the National Bank, which buys government securities every quarter between 30 billion and 40 billion today. Hence, they need to understand that this is another danger. That is, we, with you as serious statesmen, must understand that each of these sources foresees our responsibility. It's inflation, it's new prices we have to meet and sterilize this sum in some way. And I wanted to hear it from the budget committee, from the author, where is the source? What will we then fight against? So I think we can't deal with such serious issues like this, you know, with slogans, because there are millions of people behind it, and there's a new price, and there's a new inflation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u137	Konovaluk Valérie, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u138	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I am convinced that everyone understands the National Stock Company Naftogaz Ukraine is the largest taxpayer in the budget. And a company that has a gross income of hundreds of billions of dollars has a statutory fund of 318 million. So imagine that “RURgas” or “Gaz de France” has such a statutory fund, but how much can it appeal to, its own economic activity? You know, I want to make it clear that this initiative was also from the previous leadership of the NAC "Naftogaz Ukraine" and, for some reason, there was no comment that he was trying to increase the statutory fund. So I'm convinced that now that the company's unbeatable, it can not only improve its financial performance today, but also create all the conditions to ensure the continuous development of Ukraine's gas transport system, especially all those economic entities that work at NAK Naftogazi. I believe that this issue is clear to us and this statutory fund will have an impact on credit ratings from outside the NAC “Naftogaz Ukraine”. So I call on all colleagues, this is a really balanced decision and a decision that needs to be further developed today by the whole company to support this decision, and I'm convinced that increasing the internal debt of the state when we have a positive development dynamic and an increase in the budget will not cause any problems. So I invite everyone to join and support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u139	Please, Odarchenko Goodimi gives the floor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u140	Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, Minister Boyko, the representative of the governing coalition, speaking on the interim commission of inquiry on the Stockholm arbitration decision, assured us that the financial situation of NAK Naftogazu is excellent. But Mr Boyko couldn't answer one question where the Yanukovic government will take $4.5 billion to pay Russia for the gas they're going to return to Rosukreenergo. When reading this draft of the Firtasch Shadow Bill, the government is obviously trying to accumulate funds in order to calculate from Rossukrenerego for 12 billion cubic meters. I respect my colleague, Mr. Arzvetin, who assumed that the shares of NAK “Naftogazu” would be bought into Ukrainian state property. And as a politician, I'm assuming that NAC Naftogaz, who initially borrowed $400 million from Gazprom, had already taken on a loan from the IMF, had already taken on 2 billion loans from Russian banks. As a result of such underground transactions, NAK Naftogazu shares may end up in Russian state property. It is clear that the opposition to those changes will not vote, but it is the right point that Mr Carmazin would today have to explain to the government, not in a short time, to force Parliament to make loans that call into question the existence of NAK “Naftogaz Ukraine”. And if we want to hang those debts without guarantees, on the other hand, realizing that we have not solved the main problem. The state does not fight for its national interests, the state does not fight in the courts for it not to pay, on a decision of the Stockholm Arbitration Court, a member of Mr. Fertasha’s Party of the Regions, 12 billion cubic metres.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u141	Yes, please, the discussion is over. I ask because there was an addition to the bill - the proposals you heard - the committee heads, come on, let Anatoly Ivanovich the Deputy Minister of Finance say the government's position on this issue. Please, Anatoly Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u142	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The government is supporting changes to the State budget, given that the amount that we are capitalizing on NAC “Naftogaz Ukraine” will amount to 7.4 billion dollars. This will allow us to fully resolve this year's issue in contrast to gas tariffs on housing and utilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u143	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting for acceptance as a basis and generally as a law. [[B in m in s a l in]] We don't have a time, we have a financial year to prepare for the second third reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u144	I'm voting 6550 in the committee, please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[12:32:52]] For -248. Thank you. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, we have 12.30, we are discussing the dismissal of the judge, registration number 7150.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u145	Reports the head of the Committee on Justice’s subcommittee, Koleschenko Vadim Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u146	Please, get out of the way, Vadim. Wadim, sit down, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Justice is introducing draft 7,150 on the release of judges. According to paragraph 5, part five of article 126 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council decides: To release Rizkov Vitali Hennadijovich from his post as Judge of the Mukatov District Court of Zacarpathia in connection with a violation of the judge’s oath. Last time we discussed this question. And the second. The committee decided unanimously to confirm the proposal of the High Council of Justice to release Rizkov Vitali Hennadiyovich from office of judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u148	Thank you. The judge is present, isn't he? Please, Carpenter microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u149	The judge is absent, he has been warned, but at the last meeting of the Supreme Council, we have already considered this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u150	Yeah, no questions to the reporter? None. There's no Justice Council? Is it? Please write down the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u151	Yes, please. Shall I report it?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u152	Please, five minutes, Arjevitin. Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u153	Thank you, Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that there was a brutal violation of the law at the time of the adoption of the Budget Act: only on the first reading did they have the right to vote, I firmly denied. I'm asking for a transcript. I'm gonna go to court, Adam Ivanovich, so you can't do that, you don't own Parliament right now, you're just a screw on everything and remember that. As for Rizikov, I have a question. You remember that the Party of the Regions waved its hand and when eleven sheets of your application were to file a case against Rizhikov in the Attorney - General’s Office and the case had to be investigated, and such judges were to be held accountable for what they did. After all, this political power has assumed the responsibility to vote against it. I'd like to ask if the High Council of Justice has changed its point of view on these crimes. And can you see it?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u154	Thank you. Honorable Yuri Anatoliyovich, honourable deputies, the Superior Council of Justice acts within its constitutional powers. I want to point out that we support our proposal. We have brought it to your attention, but in accordance with article 111 of the Judicial Code, it is stipulated that if no decision is taken by the Supreme Council, a re-vote will be put to the vote. I can inform you that the mass of the violations was on the part of the judge, we support our proposal for his release. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u155	Please, Moses. None. Carpuk Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u156	Karpuk Vladimir, "Our Ukraine". We support the bill on the release of Judge Rizikov for the violations he committed in this important post. At the same time, I want to go back to the previous bill and say that it was accepted with a grave violation of the Rules. Note that a fairly important bill amending the budget for 7.4 billion dollars is submitted, not by the government, but by a national MP, who is immediately handed over to a certain force. To date, it has not been decided who will belong to the ‘Ukrnaftogaz’, but Russia has repeatedly claimed that it is not a simple joint venture, but a merger of these companies. Therefore, the very important issues that need to be resolved, not by a reduced procedure, should be discussed and the responsibility should be for the bill, not by one national MP, but by the government in charge of Azar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u157	I don't have to answer that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u158	Yes, Your Honor, I'm going to use the rule that gives the chairman the right to turn off the microphone if they're not actually talking. [[B in m in s a l in]] Pavlovsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u159	Make suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u160	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I ask you not to abuse your rights and not to block the mouth of opposition and to abide by the Rules not only in part.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u161	Turn off the microphone. Upstairs, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u162	Uphill, “The Block of Yulia Timoshenko – “The Fatherland”. Adam Ivanovich, it is not appropriate for you to approach the deputies in this way. Now for the question of the High Council of Justice. I would like to draw the attention of the High Council of Justice to the fact that today several judges, a few judges, are severely violating legislation in part of the Political Parties Act, are interfering with the activities of political parties, banning them from taking part in the election campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u163	I would like to point out that there were no such references to the High Council of Justice. If your appeals come from either the political parties or the citizens of the High Council of Justice will address this issue, and if there are signs of a breach of oath, we will violate the conduct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u164	Exhausted questions. Please have a seat. Is there no need to discuss it? Then I put to the vote a proposal, I put to the vote a motion, a ruling of 7150 – Supreme Council Order on the release of Judge Rizkov Vitali Hennadijovich from the post of Judge of the Mukatov District Court of Zakarpatsk in connection with the violation of the judge's oath.” Please vote. [[12:40:06]] For – 309 Copy that. Dear colleagues, the opposition in Karmazin's person agrees not to deny that we should adopt the law in the second reading, but with one clarification: that the word “Ukraine” should be added where the word “government property” is spoken. I don't see anything at all. [[B in m in s a l in]] The law was adopted in the form in which it was voted. Continue to deny it. Let's talk about the next question, by the number. [[B in m in s a l in]] From what? From what? [[B in m in s a l in]] Bill 7142, on amendment, is under consideration. It's a bill of conduct. draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2010 There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[12:41:46]] For 215 A decision has been made. Reported by Merkovsky Anatoly Ivanovich, Deputy Finance Minister. Prepare the Ripper. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u165	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The Government has prepared a draft Law amending the State Budget for 2010 in part of the increase in the expenditure of the Central Electoral Commission under the budgetary programme “Leading and managing elections and referendums”. It is proposed that the budget costs, taking into account the capital expenditure of 37 million 9,000 400 dollars, increase by 8 million 531 thousand dollars. This will enable financial resources to provide additional expenditure resulting from the adoption of changes to electoral legislation on August 30, 2010. It is these costs that will cover the work of the Commissions and experts involved during the electoral process, the payment of services for the production and delivery of legal acts to the territorial election committees, the payment of services for the development and the support of the Information and Analysis System of the City Elections. These expenses are balanced by the budget’s income, by the comings of the net income of state - owned unit companies and their associations that are excluded from the budget, and by the dividends accrued on shares, stakes, pies, and statutory holdings. This bill is considered on a budget committee and is generally supported for adoption as a basis and as a whole. The government also proposes that the bill be adopted today as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u166	Thank you, Anatoly Ivanovich. Please, from the committee of Mikola Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u167	Dear Adam Ivanovich, honourable national deputies, the Committee on Budget Affairs discussed the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2010 proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers, number 7,142. The bill was designed to address the financial security of the Central Electoral Commission's activities. [[on the preparation and holding of local elections]] In accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and village, village and city heads, additional responsibilities for the preparation and holding of local elections have been placed on the CBC. During 2010, the CLTC, under its budgetary management and maintenance programme for the conduct of elections and referendums, only provides for the maintenance of the CLTC, which does not take into account the costs associated with the preparation and conduct of the local elections, such as the payment of work, commissions involved, electoral specialists, the payment of services for the production and delivery of legal acts to the territorial election committees, the payment of services for the development and monitoring of the information and analysis system for the "Miss elections", etc. The bill proposes to increase the expenditure of CEC by 8 million 531 thousand dollars, and the source of the additional expenditure is not tax revenue, namely, part of the net revenue of state-owned unitary enterprises and their mergers, which are excluded from the budget and dividends charged to holdings in statutory capitals of state ownership. This indicator is realistic because in January-August 2010, the general budget of the State budget was 1.6 billion dollars, which was 39.2% more than the plan for this period. That is, the specified bill is balanced in terms of budgetary indicators.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u168	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u169	According to the opinion, the bill was supported by the committee and recommended to the Supreme Council by Bill No. 7142 to adopt as a basis and as a whole as a law. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u170	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss? Please write: two – “for”, two – “against”. A chariot, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u171	I ask you to pass the word to Chechev Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u172	Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Get ready, Gordy.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u173	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill proposes to increase budget allocations under the budget management and management programme in the area of elections and referendums by 8 million 531 thousand dollars. The allocation of additional resources to the Central Electoral Commission is intended to be made on the basis of not tax revenue, but on the part of the net income of the state-owned unit-owned enterprises and their associations that are excluded from the budget, and dividends that are credited to shares, stakes, rations of holdings, in the statutory capitals of which are state-owned, as well as debts for past periods and payments of part of the net income of NAC “Naftogaz Ukraine”. The introduction of the bill will provide an opportunity to address the financial security of the Central Electoral Commission for the preparation and conduct of the local elections scheduled for October 31st 2010. I call on the opposition to hold these elections with you as Presidential elections, objectively, honestly, transparently, when the entire world community perceives objectivity and elections. and the truth of the people's President Yanukovic. This purity and transparency of these presidential elections enabled us to increase and strengthen the country's ratings, to increase our international reputation, so that we and these elections would also conduct as honestly and transparently as possible, so that they would be positively appreciated by international experts, and we would thus further enhance the image and reputation of Ukraine in the world arena. I propose, and the faction of the Party of Regions proposes to adopt this bill both in the first reading and in general, thus allowing for the full work of the CLTC and to ensure the proper conduct of the elections. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u174	Gordijenko, please, the Communist faction. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u175	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. I think that there is no doubt in anyone in the session room or in Ukraine that there is a need to ensure that local elections are properly funded. But I would like to draw attention to one problem that is essential and will influence elections in some way. This is a high-quality voter register. I draw the attention of both government representatives and the Central Electoral Commission, and the registry clerk, that the registry departments that are created and provided in the regions and accounted for by the electorate, today they have a poor level of funding: there is no paper sheet, there is no cost materials, and so on and so forth. So I would ask that we pay serious attention to the issue of financing and providing financial facilities and material registering offices. I would like to point out once again that this is a matter of the government, the Central Election Commission and the registry manager.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u176	Please, Karpuku Carmazin gives his word. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u177	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine”. Of course, money is needed for elections to local authorities, and the bill proposes to increase the expenditure of the Central Electoral Commission under this budget programme by 8.5 million dollars. As the Legal Authority correctly notes, the Central Electoral Commission’s conclusion on the basis of the additional need for funds would have to be reached. There is no such justification and this is a violation of article 23 of the Central Election Commission Act. At the same time, we cannot agree that these funds that are being allocated are real. Note that the source of additional expenditure is proposed to identify not tax revenue, namely part of the net income of state-owned unit-owned enterprises and their net income-exempting associations and income dividends on equity shares of households, including past periods of debt from the payment of part of the net income of NAC “Naftogaz Ukraine”. So we're just giving a 7.4 billion dollars worth of shares to the Naftogazu statute fund -- and we're writing about Naftogaz Ukraine having net profit. Where, then, is the logic? I also point out that this bill provides 8 and a half million dollars to the government and 7.4 billion with a national deputy, who I think is the best financial specialist in Ukraine for NAC Naftogaz Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u178	Please, Odarchenko. Bodnar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u179	Olga Bodnar, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”, “Batyshvina” party, city of Kiev. Dear colleagues, first of all, I'm not even talking to you. I'm talking to our citizens. Listen, they want to rob you for another 8 million 531 thousand. Where do they get this money? I think from that show they've already submitted, they've dropped Ukraine into 70 billion shows. Is that transparency? Is this honesty about you? Or perhaps in this way we will preserve local self - government? No, Your Honor, we're not gonna do anything about this bill. Today, in the territorial election commissions and so on, less than 3,000 members of the TVC represent opposition. Now we want the governing coalition to add three more people to the people who are still in the TVC. That's an extra 40,000 people. Imagine: another 40,000 for the unfortunate 3,000 who today are trying to draw attention to the need to preserve some principles of democracy. Is that transparency? Is that honesty? No, it's not. This is opacity and dishonesty. If there's a wish and you say there's no money, first of all, remember who warned you. The opposition warned you, to hold elections by means of this law, which you passed is impossible, including in financial terms. You say the paper's gone? Please, I propose to the members of the governing coalition, here present, the Party of Regions, the Block of Lithuania, the Communists, to call off one member per commission, and thus we will save the budget for the paper you lack. I want to tell you what the next step is going to be. I want to say that the organs of local self-government will die out, like dinosaurs in Ukraine, as was done first in Kiev by eliminating the district councils, and now this will be eliminated throughout Ukraine. Thus, this present authority is trying to save money.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u180	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u181	The Yulia Timoshenko bloc will not vote in favour of the bill. I think it's a disgraceful bill that once again puts a cross on the principles of democracy of local self-government in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u182	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. I would very much ask that there really be no politics here, because in the election boards of the territorial, and these costs that we raise for the CEC go not to the Central Electoral Commission, but to pay for the work of the territorial election commissions. And in the territorial election commissions there are not only the Party of Regions, the Block of Lithuania and the Communists. Each territorial electoral commission, according to the law, has three factions, representatives of the Timoshenko Block and representatives of our Ukraine, the People's Self-Defense. I mean. [[B in m in s a l in]] I mean, without voting for an increase in the budget, you vote for your people not to get a salary, and it's also necessary for those you're delegating there to know. Well, it's your business, like. No one can force the MP to vote. I am voting on the proposal of the Pro-Profession Committee for the adoption of Act 7142 amending the Ukrainian Act on the State and Budget of Ukraine for 2010. [[on the financing of the local elections]] Please vote. [[12:55:57]] For -248. Thank you, the law has been passed. You will? Please, Alexander Bondar, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u183	I asked for words in order to provide some clarifications on the discussion that took place on the additional NAK "Naftogaz Ukraine" issue. The addition to the decision on Ukrainian state property is absurd. In no Ukrainian legislation, no act has the word “Ukrainen state property”. It's about state property, the apriors are our state property, not any other state property. The second question is that there can be no part of another legal person other than the state, no NAC “Naftogazu Ukraine” action until two laws have been amended: the first is a list of objects banned from privatization, there is NAK “Naftogaz Ukraine”, 100 per cent of shares belong to Kabmin; and the second law which prohibits the liquidation, reorganization, absorption or merger of NAC “Naftogaz Ukraine”. So when Russians are making statements about creating any association with Naftogaz, I can understand that, they don't know our legislation, and when our government officials are serious about parity, it's just ignoring our legislation. We do.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u184	Finish up. Thank you. I think so. Thank you for the right thought, more so, the person who knows the matter, sorry for the Russianism, is not listening, because for a long time he has led the State Property Fund and understands what government property is. Let's go to second reading. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is under consideration. [[Registration number 6263]] From the committee, Kseniya Mikhailna Leapina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u185	Thank you, colleagues. Xenia Lapina, Party “For Ukraine”. Dear colleagues, this law concerns amending a number of laws to bring them into line with the State Registration Act. It refers to the issue of the validity of changes to relevant statutory documents and the order of state registration of different forms of subjects, such as commodity markets, such as command companies, such as mergers. Bar associations and so forth. He is prepared for second reading, the vast majority of the comments taken into account. Please look at it and support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u186	Thank you. Dear colleagues, all the remarks, not only probably the vast majority, but I'm looking at the table, all the remarks are taken into account, only some of them are edited. Does no one insist from the authors of the amendments on the arguments of his position if he is not satisfied with the committee's reaction to his amendment? You don't? Then, with your permission, I'm voting on the proposal for a profile committee to adopt the Amendment Act to some Ukrainian legislative acts, registration number 6263. Please vote. [[12:59:21]] For–253 Thank you. The law is passed. A draft Act amending article 17 of the Ukrainian Act on Architecture is under consideration, registration number 2146. [[on the licensing of commercial activities in construction]] From the committee, Yuri Sergiyovich Serbin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u187	Dear colleagues, I remind you that this law was written to address the issue of licensing in the creation of objects of architecture. He's second-reading, all the notes are taken into account, and the committee is suggesting he be accepted as a whole. Only for the future. Now we're writing the City Code, and in principle we're going to have a path, as long as we're agreed by the working group, we're going to take a look at you so that we can gradually move away from building licenses and get more certified. I'm explaining one of my licenses, where we're deleting technical surveillance licenses, because we've already begun certification of technical supervision. And where the organization used to take a license for technical supervision, it just seems absurd, because technical supervision is done by a specific person. It's just an explanation for one of the lines. And I ask you to support him as a whole. It's a committee decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u188	All the adjustments, no more faithful amendments. More correctly, there is, yes, the Serbians are accounted for. What about the comments of the Legal Authority, what is the opinion?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u189	Answer. The Law Department makes one point so that the law prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers is regulated. I have here a letter from the first deputy of Berkuta Anatoly the All-lord, I agree with the minister who answers our request to the committee that these laws are being complied with. I've checked them myself, they're responding. Thus, the desire of the Legal Authority is taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u190	I am voting on the adoption of the Act amending article 17 of the Ukrainian Act on Architecture. [[Registration number 2146]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:02:02]] For–84 The decision is not taken. The law is rejected. The draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the prevention and suppression of corruption is under consideration. [[Registration number 6130]] From the committee, Rybek Aleksandar Grigorovich. I can't see. Then please take a table of honorary colleagues. I'm going to the drafters. Mishchenko Sergey Grigorovich? None. Moses rejected the correction, he did not insist. Yuri Mikolaiovich, you insist? Please, amendment 6 is yours, right? Please show me Voropeyev. Please sit down and let me see if we have any contact. Please, Voropeyeva microphone, what's the correction? Six?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u191	Six. It's a 6-mendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u192	6 amendments, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u193	I note that the people's jury, the jury, are ordinary Ukrainian citizens, not government officials, not officials. And making them responsible for corruption, I think, is wrong. I therefore propose that these persons be removed from the list of responsibility for corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u194	Thank you. But respectable colleagues, the amendment is just, but it does not have the right to life. Because according to article 116 of the Rules, we can only make amendments to those articles, parts of the law that were passed in the first reading. Since this proposal does not respond to the first reading, I cannot consider it. And a series of subsequent amendments also violate article 116 of the Rules. So who else is insisting on repairs? None. I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt the whole Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on preventing and combating corruption. [[Registration number 6130]] At the same time, I would like to point out that the General Legal Office has stated that the bill requires substantial work to take into account observations and re-reading. Please vote. [[13:04:54]] For – 119 The factions. "Julia Timoshenko" – 77, "Our Ukraine" – 13, communists – 27, non-fractional – 2, the rest did not vote. Therefore, respectable colleagues, there is no such procedure and there is no such procedure. You just can't give a word either. Please, Mikhail Vasilovich. Chechnya microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u195	Dear Adam Ivanovich and respected colleagues, I saw 77 "BUT" vote, so another 50 went out there, and I can't understand it at all. There's 77 or so left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u196	Is that how BUT wants to answer it or not? It won't. It's all clear. Dear colleagues! Bondarenko's word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u197	Dear friends! Vladimir Bondarenko, the Yuli Block of Timoshenko. Every day we witness the pharisaic and the word fornication of the Party of the Regions. Here is one of the regular speakers who regularly tells, tells, and blames the past for something. I want to ask you, how many votes did you just give for the Anti-Corruption Act? Zero! How many votes did you give for not increasing your retirement age? Zero! How many votes did you give for your holidays to small entrepreneurs? Zero! And that zero turns your political power into zero. Soon we're going to witness this, you're going to multiply yourself by this zero. So, respectable friends, or keep your slogans, your promises, your assurances to the Ukrainian people that you are building a new country, or go away from this country and don't stop it from developing on your own, you don't have to build it the way you're building it: on lies, on lies, on repurchases, and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u198	Project 6130 won 119 votes. It's rejected. We're looking at the draft Packaging and Wastes Act. [[second reading]] [[Registration number 1415]] Calchenko is to report from the committee. None. Then let's take the table. Please, which of the national deputies? I can see the unaccounted for. I don't insist. Slap is a part of it. Who among the deputies insists on their amendments? None. Then I propose to a profile committee to adopt the Packages and Wastes Act as a whole in a second reading. [[Registration number 1415]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:08:17]] For–20 Yeah, 20 votes. Please, it's Lippina's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u199	Thank you all very much, dear colleagues, for your support, because you didn't support yourself, you didn't support the course for any reform, I know that the future as a previous government was about the introduction of a modern system of disposal regulation. And now the Party of the Regions is “uplifting” on this corrupt“ hook”. You also like to take money from the various “parasitic” structures that those money collect from manufacturers for not providing any services. It's nice to take that kind of money and put it in your pockets, which is what you've all just signed up for. It is a pity that reforms are not possible in Ukraine, but that is understandable!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u200	Yes, the law is rejected. Bill No. 3151 on amending certain laws of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on additional measures to ensure the implementation of the Constitution of Ukraine]] [[second reading]] Moisik Volodymyr Romanovich from the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u201	Vladimir Moisik, Party “For Ukraine!” Honourable Adam Ivanovich, honourable colleagues, this bill was completed two years ago, was submitted by colleagues Lavrinovich, Portnov and Olijnik, and this is a bill of the time when the Supreme Council of Ukraine “shakeed” when orders were issued for the dissolution of Parliament, then they were annulled by the courts, and they were annulled by the President himself. And this bill was intended to limit the right of a person who has the right to dissolve Parliament in a way that is not provided for by the Constitution of Ukraine to dissolve Parliament. It was the Supreme Council that supported the bill, made 11 amendments to the committee of the legislative initiative, 8 of them counted, and the committee proposes to approve the bill. I held a different opinion, and I need to inform you of the position of the Legal Authority. Of course, the only subject who has the right to dissolve Parliament under the Constitution and according to the Constitutional Court's decision is the President of Ukraine, but he has absolute immunity from any responsibility. That is, at the time of the president’s duties, whoever he is, he is not liable for criminal or administrative responsibility. Such a Constitution and such a decision by the Constitutional Court. So, colleagues. You decide the fate of the bill, but the committee, I repeat, as amended, proposes to support it. Yes. We defend the Constitution, as it was written in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u202	Yes. Volodymyr, do not engage in arguments.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u203	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u204	Let's get some repairs. Roman Mikhailovich, your unaccounted for, do you insist? A cook?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u205	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u206	No, it's not. Who else? It's mostly Roman Mikhailovich, he doesn't insist. Huh? Hare? Is there an amendment? You won't? Right to what? Rabbit's microphone, he'll explain now.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u207	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. My dear reporter, I am interested in the amendment of Sweden, which is article 109. This is about actions aimed at a violent change or overthrow of the constitutional system, or the capture of state power, the usurpation of state power. If there is to be a station so harshly, there must be an entity. Who are we talking about? What's the action? Let's write it down. If it's the President of the Supreme Council, that's one thing. Or maybe we'll be judging the entire Supreme Council, which has dissolved itself or has done something else. I mean, in this formulation, well, it doesn't make any sense, because there's no subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u208	Respectable.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u209	Don't answer that. Because it's not a night of questions and answers, it's a second reading. You have the right to object. Now, according to your objection, I'm putting Amendment 1 on confirmation, because the committee has taken it into account, the hare denies it. It's confirmed 1 amendment to the bill, please identify yourself. No, no, he's right, he has the right to get the word. Yeah. The MPs have a right to deny it. [[13:13:09]] For-9 I am betting on the adoption of the whole Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on additional measures to ensure the implementation of the Constitution of Ukraine]] [[Registration number 3151]] Who respects the Constitution, right? [[13:13:40]] For-35 The law is rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u210	The factions are being asked.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u211	The factions? Well, here's the factions. See?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u212	It's what it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u213	“Timishenko” – 3, “Our Ukraine” – 5, Communists – 27, the rest did not vote. Huh? I guess so. Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u214	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I point out to you that this bill, which was called for additional measures to ensure the implementation of the Constitution, is necessary. And who was he moving in with? Today's Justice Minister, Lavrinović, today's deputy director of the President's Administration, National Deputy Olijnik. The committee's work is brilliant. So, obviously, let's take a look at the observation of the science-expert administration that says, "The bill needs to be redesigned and read again." All of it. Please let's do this, Adam Ivanovich. So let's ask a question. Evidently, people have heard this conclusion, which is common to all. And I don't think we have a minister of justice who changes his point of view right now and doesn't say that we have to accept it. I don't think the President's Administration has as many people as they do, all the more so that I know that Port's doctor of science and I just wouldn't write anything like that. Therefore, this bill needs to be re-readed.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u215	I'm putting this motion to a vote. Who's in favour of re-reading Bill 3151, please vote. [[13:15:34]] For–61 The bill was rejected. The draft Law 3558 is under consideration, amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on increasing accountability for crimes against children]] Vladimir Romanovich. It's all accounted for here. There is a proposal to vote. I'm voting on the committee's proposal, the Chief Legal Authority has called for an unnoticeable adoption of the Amendments Act to the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on increasing accountability for crimes against children]] [[Registration number 3558]] Please vote. [[13:16:25]] For 337 Thank you, the law has been passed. We are considering a draft law amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act, sorry, there is a proposal for a committee to transpose the bill. [[on University clinics]] The bill is being transposed because the table is not ready. We're moving. Yesterday? Yesterday only the committee considered the matter. Who, for that, please support the proposal made by the Committee, the Committee on Science and Education, on the transposition of the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Higher Education Act, please vote. Thank you, the Upper Council correctly reminded me that all we need is a decision of the Supreme Council. [[13:17:21]] For 234 Thank you, thank you. We've moved on. Bill number 2582 is under consideration. Draft Act amending sub-paragraph 4.4.2 of article 4, paragraph 4.4, of the Ukrainian Law on how to pay taxpayers' obligations to budgets and government trust funds. [[second reading]] He's the head of the Homutinnick Committee. I don't see him. No, no, it works, it works. Then please, let's watch. Here, take the tables. I see that. Round, down. But Kruglov is no longer a deputy. Double. Don't insist. Double again. Overruled, Dubyl, 47th. One of the national deputies insists on an amendment that is not counted or counted but has a different opinion. You don't? Then I put to the vote the committee's proposal to accept the second reading and, in general, the bill number 2582. The Chief Legal Office states that the text of the bill does not meet the requirements of article 116. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:19:18]] For-60 60, Bill overruled. Bill No. 4385 is under consideration, a draft law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the taxation of income from repurchase transactions. It's the same picture as the last one. Homutinian. Gnutkevich. Don't insist on the amendment, 5? No, it's not. Vasade, eight? Don't insist. Teriochina’s amendment is included. Celebrity, 11th Amendment, overruled. Don't insist. Terhochina is included. Declined, Litvinov. Don't insist. 18th Amendment. I am voting on the committee's proposal, although the Chief Legal Authority also disagrees with this second reading proposal and the whole Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the taxation of revenue from repurchase transactions for used goods]] [[Registration number 4385]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:20:49]] For 101 Not supported. The bill was rejected. The draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Shipbuilding Industry in Ukraine is under consideration. [[Registration number 5548]] [[on the extension of the measures taken to support the Ukrainian shipbuilding industry]] Royal Natalia Yuriovna. None. Then let's work for her. Carmazine, 1 correction. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u216	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that I propose a paragraph of the first part: “For the period from 1 January 2000 to 1 January 2012, such measures are under way to support the release of a shipbuilding enterprise belonging to residents of Ukraine,” I stress, “a vessel for loading cargo, multi-purpose drying and linear, passenger and passenger vessels, provided that the land and property of these enterprises are not alienated for a different purpose”. I'm talking about this and I'm stressing that these are companies that belong to Ukrainian residents, so they don't belong to foreigners. And I would like you to know that virtually the entire shipbuilding sector is now being accumulated by one of the Russian oligarchs. It's a shame to watch, but I watch all the time the law enforcement agencies get Ukrainians in Nicholas, in Herson.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u217	Thank you. Puts Karmazin's 1st amendment to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:22:52]] For-59. Not supported. Still, it's all accounted for. I am voting on a proposal by the Committee on the Adoption of the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Support for the Shipbuilding Industry of Ukraine. [[on the extension of the measures taken to support the Ukrainian shipbuilding industry]] Please vote. [[13:23:30]] For-58. Not supported. The bill was rejected. Bill No. 6153 - Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on licensing of certain economic activities is under consideration. [[resecond reading]] From the committee is Leapina Kseniya Mikhailovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u218	Xenia Lapina, Party “For Ukraine! ” Dear colleagues, this bill is prepared for second reading solely on the proposal of President Viktor Yanukovic of Ukraine. It significantly reduces the number of licensed activities. We know that both the government and the President of Ukraine have recently made a number of applications for a radical reduction in the number of licensed activities. I think this bill, if it's now being adopted in general, will help implement such a policy. It's been processed. Part of the amendments are included and some are included. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u219	No one insists on repairs? Carmazine's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u220	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Xenia Mikhailevna, I would like you to comment on the laws that we have rejected today, first. I think they've done a lot of damage to both the shipbuilding industry and the tax system where the system was supposed to be in order. But in this case, my correction is 4a, which is rejected. I suggested that the bill should be supplemented by a paragraph in the first part of article 9: make the seventh paragraph of the text “the production of precious metals and precious stones, precious organic stones, semi-precious stones”, and paragraph 8 of the text “the production of precious metals and precious stones, precious stones”. Paragraph 11 also amend: “the production of pesticides and agrochemicals, only plant growth regulators, optical, fragmented trade in pesticides” are dangerous things. Paragraph 44 reads: “Performance of topographical geodetic, cartographic works”. 46th, 50th and 61st.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u221	Thank you, Your Honor. I think this law is about to be broken. You do realize what's going on here is some unfair game. We're discussing amendments and everything else just for one purpose: not to be supported by this law right now. And in fact, what you're saying is partially taken into account in editorial terms, just a little bit in a different edition. And for example, things like agrochemicals, licenseing trade itself is cancelled, but this is absolutely, 100 percent in line with the same bill, supported by President Viktor Yanukovic of Ukraine. So actually, in my opinion, the bill could be supported. But I think there's a fake game going on here just to get rid of it. Although I am reporting in part that this will be a major problem for the second draft of the Viktor Yanukovich Bill, because it will in fact be a failure to support the concept of a reduction in licensing. What, then, about the President’s program?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u222	There's a 4th amendment, Carmazine, to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:27:11]] For-43 Not supported. I am voting on the committee's proposal to adopt a law amending some Ukrainian legislation on licensing certain types of economic activity. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:27:43]] For-79 Sorry, there is no such thing as “voting motives”. You've reported. That's not gonna change anything. Well, you were in the rostrum, you said. There is no such procedure in the Rules. Lupina's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u223	Thank you, Your Honor. But there is no right in the Rules, for example, when there are amendments to the second reading, immediately accept, and we accept. So I'm going to let myself say that I'm worried about the policies of current President Viktor Yanukovic. He has declared reforms, and his political power is firmly behind these reforms. I am deeply concerned. Because Ukraine needs reforms. Already the second reformist bill, which actually falls into a corruption agreement, really worries, maybe even a fourth.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u224	I think you should all worry about yourself. Yesterday you and I adopted a bill that was sent to prepare for the second reading, which deals with these problems and ten laws on one subject do not need to be adopted. I think we did the right thing, and yesterday we passed the bill at the President's suggestion. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on payable periods]] [[Registration number 4749]] Marouschenko from the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u225	Dear Adam Ivanovich's honorary colleagues, on June 2, this year, you and I adopted a bill at the meeting of the Supreme Council in the first reading. I'll remind you of the substance of the bill. The bill proposed the establishment of a time limit for the payment of salaries to employees no later than three days after the end of the payment period. However, when voting in favour of the bill, a decision was taken and voted on to set the time limit for employees to pay their salaries not later than seven days after the end of the relevant period, as reflected in the comparative table of the bill. The committee received 14 amendments from Ukrainian national deputies. In the working group, the amendments were considered, down eight were counted, and six were rejected. The amendments that have been rejected define in their section other terms of payment of the salary, which is contrary to the decision taken in the session hall. On June 30, this year, the committee agreed on a comparative table and recommended that the Supreme Council adopt the bill in second reading and in general. The principal legal office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine called for a comparative table without any notice and suggested that the text of the bill be adopted in second reading and in general as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u226	Thank you. Carmagine is a repair. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u227	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I want us not to have worse legislation than we have now, and not to make it worse on the rights of workers. Therefore, I propose paragraph 1 of article 115 of the Labour Code to read: “Employment is paid to employees on a regular basis on working days on terms established by a collective agreement or by a statutory act of an employer who is in agreement with an elected body of a primary professional organization or other authorized to represent working groups, and in the absence of such bodies, representatives of workers elected by an authorized working group, but not less than twice.” – and here, please, the amendment, “.over an astronomical month, after a period of time not exceeding 15 calendar days and not later than one day after the end of the period for which payment is made”. So far it has been written “not later than seven days”. So I want to improve the position of the worker, and I ask you to support this amendment. I know it's Christian.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u228	Karmazin’s ninth amendment, aimed at improving the situation of the worker, has been voted out. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:32:13]] For-38 Correction not supported. A vote is taken on the proposal by the Committee on the Adoption of the Law (Registration No. 4749) on. [[B in m in s a l in]] So we voted on the 9th amendment. You're the one who made the 9th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u229	This is the 9th amendment, Yuri Anatolyevich. Let's have Carmazin's microphone again, please. Well, you've read the 9th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u230	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you very much. I'm asking you very much. So, do you think a person should get a salary for what he's done? That's what the code says, yes, in the international agreements that we ratified, and now we're going to hear about human rights and do parliamentary hearings and so on. And now we don't want a normal rule to say that the astronomical month has passed and then 15 days have passed, but not later than one day after the end of the payment period. Pay the people at the right time. Where you take the money, the loan, wherever you want. The government of Azarov is now printing the mints, distributing the papers. They've already printed 61 billion, they've already gone 62 billion, they're printing. It's already gone. Please support this amendment. It's made for people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u231	It's the third vote, the ninth amendment -- whatever you want to call it, because they're the same, Carmazin. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:34:01]] For-37 Power. I am voting on the adoption of the Act as a whole to amend certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on payable periods]] Please vote. [[13:34:33]] For 229 The law is passed. And Yuri Anatolyovich against it. A draft Act on the organization of reporting and the conduct of insurance checks on the collection and payment of insurance contributions to the general government social insurance is under consideration. [[Registration number 6329]] Please, the head of the committee, Vasil Georgiyovich Hara.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u232	Dear colleagues, the purpose of Bill No. 6329 is to streamline the reporting mechanism and to carry out insurance checks on the payment of insurance contributions to general government social insurance. You know that, in parallel, we worked on Bill No. 2369, which provides for the consolidation of functions similar to those of all the general government social insurance funds. Such as the creation and maintenance of State social insurance registers, including the uniform reporting and monitoring of the full and timely recovery of a single social contribution in a single body, the Pension Fund of Ukraine. This law was passed with you on 8 July 2010. In fact, the functions that are proposed by the bills that we are considering today 6329 have entered into Law 2369, which we have adopted with you. The Committee therefore, in preparing for second reading, suggests rejecting the draft second reading procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u233	Thank you. I put to the vote the proposal of a professional committee, which is governed by 123 articles of the Rules, to reject the draft Law on the Ordering of the Mechanism, the Reporting and the Verification of Insured Persons on the Recruitment and Payment of Insurances to National Insurance. Please vote. We vote in favour. [[13:36:52]] For 238. The committee's decision is supported. The law is rejected. A bill is being considered to amend the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences on Liability for Violations of the Procedure for the Issue of Permitted Documents. [[by number 6262]] Gretzak Vasil Mikolaiovich from the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u234	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine's draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences on Liability for Violations of the Procedure for the Issue of Permitted Documents, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, was adopted on the first reading on July 6, 2010. [[No. 6262]] During this time, the Committee on Law Enforcement has considered it several times at its meetings, and today I am presenting you with the version that the Committee proposes to adopt as a law. The bill proposes a new edition of article 164 and amendments to article 166. 10 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences to Improve the Procedure for the Application of Administrative Law for Violations of the Implementation of Economic Activities and for Violations of the Procedure for the Issue of Permitted Documents by an Authorized Authority. The main task of this bill is to increase the number of administrative offences in the area of the issuance of documents of a permissive nature and the introduction of economic activities for which the bill provides for administrative responsibility. To strengthen the State’s influence on the perpetrators of these offences, which in turn will lead to a reduction in administrative offences in the areas mentioned. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the first reading of the bill makes it advisable to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work. I would like to point out, given that this bill was defined as urgent by the President of Ukraine, the committee has considered it several times, and we have worked fruitfully with the State Corporation. There were 20 amendments to the law, of which 16 were taken into account in full, in part, and in editorial terms. The four amendments are amendments 1, 4, 18 and 20, regardless of their validity and importance, unfortunately they have been rejected because of the apparent inadequacy of article 116 of the Ukrainian Law on the Rules of the Supreme Council. In conclusion, after reviewing the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences on Liability for Violations of Permission Documents, the Committee considers it necessary to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it on second reading and as a whole. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u235	Who among the deputies insists on their amendments? The circle doesn't insist? Yuri Anatolyevich, there are no amendments to happiness for the Supreme Council. I then put to the vote a motion for a committee to adopt a law amending the Code of Administrative Offences concerning liability for infringement of the procedure for issuing documents of a permissive nature. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:40:27]] For 205 The law did not receive support. Overruled. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture is under consideration. [[on improving agricultural support mechanisms]] [[resecond reading]] [[Registration number 5471]] The head of the Perestenko Marina Volodymyrna subcommittee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u236	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! At the June 1, 2010, session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a second reading of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture was discussed. [[on improving agricultural support mechanisms]] [[Registration number 5471]] However, the disagreement between government structures was a dissonance with regard to the final decision-making in the session hall by the Ukrainian National Deputies, and in this case it was voted to send the bill for re-reading. According to the transcript, all the comments discussed in the session hall were examined in detail and the draft law was finalized. One amendment was made to the second reading by the National Deputies, namely, that the National MP of Ukraine Karmazin was presented to the Committee with his proposals of June 10, which fully duplicated the proposals he had sent before the second reading, and they were proposed by the Committee to take editorially into account. It also took into account the appointment of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on June 3 to take into account the proposals made by the Ukrainian national deputy Karmazin in accordance with the withdrawal from the transcript of the meeting. So based on the comparative table that you have here, we have two actual changes. This was rejected in the Hall by amendment No. 8 of Ukraine’s Klimec people’s deputy and a new amendment No. 10 of the People’s Chamber of Carmazin was made according to the transcript and commission of the Head of the Supreme Council. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the proposed deadline for entry into force since 1 July 2010 has expired. So at a committee meeting on September 8, this year, the last item is proposed: this law takes effect on the day of its publication. [[Amendment No. 11 of the People's Deputy of Kaletnik]] Regarding the comments of the Chief Legal Authority, which reviewed the draft law prepared for the second read and made a number of proposals. It should be noted that the observations are almost the same as those before the second reading and have already been discussed in the session room last time. So I'm asking the people's deputies to support this bill now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u237	Thank you. Carmine microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u238	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. I sincerely thank the head of the Perestenko Subcommittee for the business approach, for the good report by law, indeed. And thank you for taking my amendments into account, really, I would like this law to be adopted as soon as possible in the final version. But you know that, unfortunately, July 1st has passed, so there's no reason, and I'm asking you not to vote for my 10th amendment, because this time has gone by, unfortunately, not for the benefit of the village, unfortunately. But we have only “from the day of publication” the amendment of Gregory Mikhailovich Kaletnik, and we have to vote for it and vote for it in general. And I would ask that the coalition don't get it wrong, because we're already carrying both dry milk and meat and everything else, and everything from abroad, and everything's not better. So let's support our agriculture, I don't think it's relevant or relevant, as expressed by the Chief Legal Authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u239	Correction number.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u240	You don't have to. I am voting on the adoption of the whole Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture. [[on improving agricultural support mechanisms]] Please vote. [[13:45:04]] For-42 The law is not supported. Declined. Let's move on, Your Honor, to the section on re-examination of draft laws with proposals from the President of Ukraine. Bill No. 3003 on amending the Code on Administrative Offences in Combating poaching is under consideration. Miroshenko Yuri Romanovich of the Committee There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. And in general, the whole section is simplified. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u241	Yuri Anatolyevich, I'd like to give you a chance. [[13:45:59]] For 196 Decision taken. Please, Yuri Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u242	Dear voters, distinguished colleagues, Yuri Miroshnichenko, representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I report Bill 3003, which was returned by the President of Ukraine with his remarks. It deals with extremely important issues that the Supreme Council has regulated by this law. It's about amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences to increase the fight against poaching. I will immediately read to you what the President is proposing as his remarks, so that I hope we have studied these proposals carefully and will ask you to support them. Thus, the President proposes: First. Refuse to add to paragraph 9 part one of article 255 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, provided for by the Law for Supplements concerning the Authorisation of Public Inspectors, to draw up protocols on administrative offences that are referred to the courts because of their nature. So we've suggested that civilians write protocols, it doesn't match the standards that are in other legislation. And these relationships are already settled in a different way. The other one. To refrain from introducing, in a new edition, paragraph 6 of part two of the same article, a code on the authorization of public inspectors of conservation authorities to establish protocols for violations of the rules of fishing under part three of article 85 of the Code, and on exceeding the limits and standards for the use of natural resources under article 912 of the Code for violations of the rules on fisheries and the protection of fish stocks. Instead, delete article 255, part two, paragraph 6, of the codex. This is the same situation with regard to activity.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u243	Thank you. Conclusion, if you ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u244	I, if you don't mind, I won't count, but there are still a few points left here, but I assure you, all the President's remarks are the result of a thorough analysis not only of the expert opinion, but of the practice that is now. And in fact, the President is providing us with his amendments from criticism from those who will apply this law and from Ukrainian citizens. I ask you to support the President's proposals in their entirety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u245	Thank you. Bevs Valeriy Ananiyovich, please. You've got two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u246	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The committee fully agreed with the President’s proposals. They've all been introduced to Bill 7. I would just like to clarify what the law envisaged to amend the four articles of the Ukrainian Administrative Code. This is, above all, a violation of the rules of hunting and fishing, the manufacture and sale of prohibited poaching tools, a violation of the order of purchase and disposal of animal and plant objects, and a violation of the order of business. That is, the bill continues to reinforce the powers of State inspectors of fisheries and forestry, but it does delete an article that provides for the right of public inspectors to draw up protocols, because the President thinks that we are thus putting them at risk because the sphere of activity is enough, let's say, specific. So the committee agreed to all the President's proposals and asked for the support of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u247	Thank you. I am voting on the proposal for a pro-profession committee to adopt the Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences to Strengthen the Fight against poaching, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[13:50:54]] For 224 Let's see the factions. Who's in favour of getting back to the vote, please vote. [[13:51:24]] For 257 We're back. I'm betting on a motion for adoption of Bill No. 3003, taking into account the President's proposals. Please vote. Wait, we're still voting on the previous law. [[13:51:50]] For 251 The law is passed. The draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Defence Orders is being considered with proposals from the President. [[new editor]] Miroshenko Yuri Romanovich, representative of the President. Prepare Kinacha from the committee. Please, Yuri Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u248	Dear voters! Dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, Representative of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'd like to thank you, gentlemen. I would like to invite you to consider another bill concerning the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Defence Order. And the President is drawing our attention to a few facts that require more careful study. And by making them as suggestions, he's actually helping us with you to eliminate the possible negative consequences of passing this law. First, a number of provisions of the law do not comply with the recently adopted Ukrainian Law on State Procurement, which is fundamental in defining conditions, procedures and procedures for the purchase of goods, jobs and services at the expense of public funds. The other one. This is part of the third article 7 of the new edition of the Public Defence Order Act, part of the approval by the Cabinet of Ministers of the Individual State Contract, does not meet the standards of part two of Article 179 of the Master Code. Thirdly, part of the second article of the new edition of the Law on State Defence Orders stipulates that the subject of intellectual property rights to objects created as a result of the execution of a defence order is a State in the person of public contracting entities which does not comply with articles 421, 423 and 430 of the Civil Code. And a number of other circumstances that force the President to make an observation. I'm drawing your attention to what the Sci-Fi thinks is the president's point.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u249	Thank you, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u250	I ask you, Your Honor, to fully support the President's proposal and to adopt the law with his proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u251	Thank you. Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach from the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u252	Thank you. The honourable national deputies, comments and proposals of the President of Ukraine to the Ukrainian Defence Order Act are primarily aimed at taking into account the interests of the State in the execution of state orders, including intellectual property, the more effective use of scientific and technical, industrial, human resources in the execution of defence orders and, of course, creates conditions for transparent, equal competition based on the Law on State Procurement adopted by us. The National Security and Defence Committee has considered the President's proposals and observations in full support and requests the Supreme Council of Ukraine for a re-examination of the law to adopt it as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u253	Thank you, Anatoly Kirilovich. I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt the whole Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Defence Orders, taking into account the President's proposal. [[Registration number 2581]] Please vote. [[13:56:04]] For 248 Thank you. The law is passed. At the suggestion of Igor Sharov, Head of the Lithuanian Block, I continue for 15 minutes in the morning. We are considering the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Control of International Transfers of Military Assignment and Use of Goods, with proposals from the President. [[Registration number 4123]] The representative of the President is Mr Miroshenko Yuri Romanovich. Prepare Anatoly Kirilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u254	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, Representative of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Thank you, gentlemen. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the President, in his proposals, also allows us to draw attention to the fact that, in not all cases, when it comes to responsibility for violating those rules, the conditions laid down in the laws on international transfers of military supplies and dual use may be such a responsibility. In some of the circumstances that we have foreseen, we have a fixed limit of fines, some unfixed, and with our proposals, the President is actually bringing the law into line with the law. I would like to point out that the President's proposal has been considered by the profile committee. They support his proposals to the fullest extent, so, Your Honor, I invite you to support both the President's proposals and the committee's decision by approving this bill with the President's proposals, approving them in its entirety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u255	Thank you, Yuri Romanovich. The more applause you give, the faster you act. Okay. Anatoly Kirilovich, from the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u256	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the National Security and Defence Committee has considered the proposals and comments of the President of Ukraine on the Law on Change, the Supplements on State Control of International Transfers of Military Assignment and Double Use Goods. The Committee considers proposals and observations as such, which enhance the quality of this law, allow for a clear differentiation of the responsibility for regulatory breaches in exports, imports of technicians and weapons, and enable Ukraine to effectively implement its international obligations. The National Security and Defence Committee recommends to the Supreme Council that it be adopted as a whole as a result of a review of the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u257	Thank you, Anatoly Kirilovich. I'm betting on the adoption of the whole Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on State Control of International Transfers of Military Assignment and Use of Goods, taking into account the President's proposals. [[Registration number 4123]] Please vote. [[13:59:28]] For 239. The law is passed. The bill 2702 - Ukraine Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights - on the term of office with the President's proposals. Miroshenko Yuri Romanović is a representative of the President. Prepare Pauline, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u258	Dear voters! Dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Considering that this isn't the first time you've applauded, I take it as a sign of respect for the head of state and of respect for the work he's been doing to get us all to adopt better laws along with you that go to the realization and protection of human rights and citizens in our country. This is precisely the position of the President as a result of his asking us to refrain from extending the term of office of the High Council for Human Rights from 7 years of age, as proposed by this law, leaving them for 5 years. As with the Supreme Council's cadence of five years, the Commissioner has been working in systemic unity with parliamentarians of the appropriate cadence, and therefore it would be more logical, if Parliament had been authorized five years, and authorized by human rights, which is to some extent delegated by Parliament to monitor the observance of human and civil rights, has also worked for five years. So I ask you to support the President's proposals, to approve them by your decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u259	Thank you. From the committee: Pavlenko Eduardo Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u260	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! On June 29 of this year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine approved the Law “On Amendments to the Law of Ukraine on the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights” on the term of office. The law suggested that the term of office of Commissioner should be increased from 5 to 7 years. The logic of such changes was to strengthen the guarantees of the independence of the Ombudsman from other State bodies in the exercise of parliamentary control over the observance of the constitutional rights and freedoms of both the individual and the citizen. This approach was reflected in article 10 of the Law on the Court of Auditors. At the same time, the President of Ukraine took advantage of the constitutional veto – and returned the prescribed law to the parliament. In particular, the President of Ukraine proposes to refrain from changing the terms of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights and the Law of Ukraine “To amend the Law of Ukraine“On the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights” on the term of office to reject. On September 8, this year, at its meeting, the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations considered the proposals of the President of Ukraine to the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law “On the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights” on the term of office and approved the recommendation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support the proposal of the President of Ukraine. The members of the committee also noted the need to strengthen the guarantees of the independent functioning of the Ombudsman's institution in carrying out parliamentary control over the observance of the constitutional rights and freedoms of both the individual and the citizen, and to extend its powers. In view of this, he considers it necessary to develop appropriate amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u261	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of a professional committee to support the proposals of the President of Ukraine and to reject the bill 2702 “On amending the Ukrainian Law on the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights”. Please vote. [[14:04:07]] For 248 The President's proposals are also supported by the committee. The bill was rejected. A bill on amending some Ukrainian legislation on the application of distribution agreements is under consideration, with proposals from the President of Ukraine. [[For the purposes of heading 5376]] Report by Yuri Romanovich Miroshnichenko. Prepare Plednik from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u262	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the example of a civilized, I would say, exemplary cooperation between our state institutions, particularly the President of Ukraine and the opposition. This, the proposals were prepared as a result of a serious analysis and a standardized analysis was prepared by our colleague Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, who addressed the President’s name, drawing attention to a number of circumstances that would have had a negative impact on our nation. As far as the content of the observations is concerned, they are based on a number of provisions of the Constitution, other codes, and are called upon to remedy the situation. I ask you, Your Honor, to support the President's proposals with your vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u263	Thank you. Colonel Alexy Vitaliovich of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u264	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of Economic Policy at its meeting on September 21st this year supported the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the application of distribution agreements with the proposal of the President of Ukraine. I remind you that this law was passed by the Supreme Council on July 8, 2010, and returned with the President's proposals on July 30, that same year. The bill provides for separate amendments to the current laws of Ukraine that allow the law to be eliminated and the State party to the agreement on the distribution of goods and public authorities, through which the State acts as a party to such an agreement, to identify the authorized authority of the State, in this case the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to establish an agreement on the distribution of production in the maritime economic zone, to improve and regulate the mechanism of payment of taxes and assemblies in the execution of the distribution agreement. In addition, guarantees are being strengthened against changes in legislation for the duration of the contract, so a stable and favourable regime is being created for the duration of the agreement. Thus, the decision of the Economic Policy Committee to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to enact legislation in general, taking into account the President's proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u265	Thank you. There's a committee proposal. Before the vote of Yuri Anatoliovich, we will give him the floor, and he will remain silent for a long time. Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u266	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that when I passed this bill, I made many proposals, and then unfortunately, you didn't support them. I turned to the President for reasons of these positions and showed that we are taking away the rights of the people under the Constitution. I have shown that the value of this law is billions and that there is a violation of the law. I want to thank the President, I did this in a letter to his person Yuri Miroshnick and other legislators who were working on it because there are eight pages of amendments. They're accounted for. I think this law is already ensuring the rule of the Constitution and the law throughout the territory and will not allow us to simply lay down our shelf and make some agreements above the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u267	Thank you. In other words, Yuri Anatoliyovich wishes to thank the President for his close cooperation with the Supreme Council. I am voting on the adoption of the whole Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on the application of product distribution agreements, taking into account the President's proposals. Please vote. [[14:09:05]] For 231 The law is passed. We are considering the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Promoting the Development of Domestic Machinery for the Agricultural Complex. [[on the use of additional measures for the production of modern competitive agricultural technology]] [[Registration number 4757]] There's an offer, because we have six minutes left to consider the reduced procedure. Please support this proposal. [[14:09:48]] For 206 A decision has been made. Please, the author of the Shpak Bill Vasil Fedorovich, 2 minutes. Prepare the Ring.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u268	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, a respected colleague of the bill, provides for changes in the regulatory base of the legal weight of agricultural expenditure, taking into account the costs of electricity, wages, and other costs incurred in determining agricultural production as being produced in Ukraine. Ukraine's powerful machinery factories are far behind in the production of new and progressive technologies, resulting in the acquisition of technology outside Ukraine. During this year, nearly five billion dollars have been purchased from a foreign producer. And 70 percent of the technology that's imported that's already in consumption, 70 percent of the technology that's out of date, let's say. On the other hand, Ukraine loses between 8 million and 10 million tons of grain each year because of the absence of a grain harvester. That's ten billion dollars a year, losing one grain as much as you could buy. Therefore, there is today a proposal to provide normative data as required by the law in force. The first year of manufacturing technology is 30 percent, so second year is 35-40, 45 percent is the fourth year. And 50 percent of the fifth year, taking into account the cost of pay, electricity, consumption, and other costs involved. There is also a proposal to specify, to specify the state support of an agricultural machine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u269	Thank you, sit down, please. Have a seat, Vasil Fedorovich. From the committee, the head of the subcommittee on agrarian politics and land relations, Marina Volodymyrna Perestenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u270	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations at its meeting on 7 June 2010 reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Promoting the Development of Domestic Machinery for the Agricultural Complex, introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Špak. [[on the use of additional measures for the production of modern competitive agricultural technology]] [[Registration number 4757]] The bill is designed to create more favourable conditions for domestic machinery companies that would encourage the development of better models of our agricultural technology. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine notes that the bill needs to be finalized. However, the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Promoting the Development of Domestic Machinery for the Agricultural Complex. [[on the use of additional measures for the production of modern competitive agricultural technology]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u271	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Who wants to share in the discussion? Yes. Then please, if no one else insists. Carmazine. Please, Samuel. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u272	The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will be in first reading supporting this bill because the issue of unlocking the production of domestic machinery has long been on the agenda. And we know that today, thanks to the uncontrollable import of foreign technology from abroad, almost everyone's work has been slowed down without the exclusion of domestic machinery companies. So, of course, we will support, we will support, we will support, and those measures that are provided for in this legislation, and we understand that moving this issue away from the ground, a very important issue for our nation, cannot be done without the strong support of our state in this field. In general, what I would like to say is that we should be looking at the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine on time, the issues related to the support of the domestic producer, first, and especially the agro-industrial complex. Why do we have one or two businesses working in every region today? But because even the state is not interested in this. There's no native technology, there's no access to it today, there's no very high loan value for today, there's no government order. And it's all practical because the agro-industrial complex, no matter how much we make decisions here, it dies in us, people leave the village, people don't work. And this bill is going to help us move things out of place in some way. We will support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u273	Thank you. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin It's dry to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u274	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, today, the Supreme Council, we have failed the Shipbuilding Support Act, unfortunately. Unfortunately, this means that once again our orders will be placed in Poland, Korea, Japan, Germany, not in Ukraine. Now we also have a moment of truth that will be right after this adoption. I think, given the crisis that's taking place in the world, we need to adopt this law very quickly. Why? As long as there's no screams from outside the border that we're making preferences for our construction. This is why we have a law that has continued to remove restrictions, this law is now proposing to remove the time limits that are limited until 2010, because we have made this decision with you before, by which we import raw materials, materials, nodes, aggregates, details and complete products of self-sustainability, we also take into account the cost of accounting work, energy costs and so on. I think this law should be adopted. And I want to tell you that his legislative level of support is so serious, I thank my colleague Spak, that in principle, Adam Ivanovich, I am a firm opponent if anyone objects to acceptance in the first and second readings. But if no one would deny it, I'll make an offer: let's take this law right away on the first and second readings, so that it'll start working so that people will already be planning what to do, so that we have Ukrainian native technology in the spring, and it was cheaper, it was reliable, and we didn't bring metal scraps from all over here, and then we didn't look for funds to support it. Thank you for your attention, and please consider this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u275	Thank you. Dry Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u276	Dear colleagues, whether in general or in half, I signed up “against” because this bill will not work. And I'll explain why. In this session room, we voted with you in favour of the question of state support: airplane construction - the law works, automobile construction - the law works, shipbuilding - the law works. Why does it work? Because privatization in these areas was conducted in a normal, transparent way, for the sake of production. Too bad I couldn't ask you a question, I'd like to ask Vasil Fedorovich a question. What, though, happened to the privatization of agricultural machinery? [[Let Sasha go, he needs to go to the bathroom.]] . What happened to the privatization of agricultural machinery? The Ternopil Combin factory, not even the machines, but the rails, doesn't work at all. It's all colloquial. And the whole village looks like this today. So we have to consider this law with you in order to make it work, so that it is real, so that it does what we and you are focusing on. It's going to take a lot of money to invest, because, for example, a combined harvesting plant called Ternopils, to pick up and we have a domestic combo that collects BM-6's sugar beet. complex. I'll remind you, in 1991, 4,000 complexes were released. They're going to have huge investments in April. If we want to have our own shingles, we need to invest money in Colomia, we need to invest money in the White Church. We have a mass of industrial enterprises that, after privatization, looked like a collapsed field. So we're going to need funds both in the first or in the second, I think we're going to have to take it in the first, and we're going to find a source of funding in the second.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u277	Thank you. I'll put it to a vote. I will, Sergey Volodymyrovich. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Promoting the Development of Domestic Machinery for the Agricultural Complex. [[on the use of additional measures for the production of modern competitive agricultural technology]] Please vote. [[14:20:37]] For 240 Decision taken. George Carmazin offers to be accepted as a whole. No, it's not. Yeah. Sasha's microphone, please, for the replica, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u278	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, a respected colleague, here just from the rostrum, a respected colleague of Suhi tried to offend me, but he failed. For this reason, the people carefully coined the saying: “If you had wings for a pig, it would have seen the sky.” Thank you for your attention. And, Adam Ivanovich, do not abuse the chairman’s rights as early as 14.21, and you have the opportunity, in accordance with the Rules, to continue the sessions for only 15 minutes. Close the meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m0.u279	Yes. Thank you for your patience, including Sergio Volodymyrovich, who endured. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed.
