ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:53]] The 408 National Deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our colleague, Alexander Mikolaiovich. Please welcome a colleague and wish him health and success. [[Applause]] I'm giving you information, my fellow Members, on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary session of October 5, 2010. 15 questions on the agenda have been considered, 6 laws have been passed as a result of their consideration, 3 bills adopted as a basis, and one bill has been rejected. In accordance with article 25 of the Rules, 30 minutes are allocated on Wednesday for the performances of the national deputies. Once again, Wednesday is 30 minutes in accordance with the Rules for the Presentation of People’s Deputies. And now I'm asking the national deputies to sign up for the performance. Names of the national deputies. Eugene Chagot, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Please, a microphone or a rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u2	The request to pass on the word to Jaborov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u3	Please, Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u4	From where? Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, “Batychishina”, Kirovograd. Our constituencies, after prolonged oblivion, when the country was in the grip of such uncertainty and silence, finally, the Ukrainians and the Ukrainian state, especially the Ukrainian authorities, were talking about in the world. The famous Venice Commission has spoken, which has always been very cautious, and here has literally said that the 2004 Constitution's amendment is illegal, anti-natural, anti-, anti-, anti-, anti-, anti-, anti-, anti-, anti-, anti-. As the Council of Europe said, yesterday at its meeting, it was equally harsh and totally uncompromising that what is happening in Ukraine today is actually disturbing the whole world, because it is going hugely backwards into the past and into the totalitarian system. I would like to remind our not-honored judges of the Constitutional Court, by the way, to remind them of the very fresh information that has now come literally, in the media and in the world. It's about the fact that in Kyrgyzstan, where, you know, what happened, there is a court in the Constitutional Court judges, I repeat, a trial against the judges of the Constitutional Court. And it's these judges who, when they're being questioned in court, they admit that they're not guilty of anything, that they've just been subjected to tremendous pressure from the President, the former President, the ex-president. I very much want our judges of the Constitutional Court to remember this and then, when I am convinced that there will be a court over them to have that argument in mind and to use it. I want to remind you that in 2007, Victor Janukovic made it very clear that whoever wants to go back to the 1996 Constitution is completely unrealistic, and he said that society would never accept it. That's why we're stressing in yesterday's, and what's going to happen today, they want to push this painting really fast. We're just reminding you once again that, in Ukraine, the Constitutional Court, led by Yanukovic, and in this court there's a former lawyer who worked at Yanukovich's auto-business, you can imagine who came to the Constitutional Court. As a result, we simply remind you that some years of life have been erased from your lives, Ukrainians. This is the state of absurdity in which we live. And their end — those who do so — is near.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u5	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Gregory Kaletnik, faction of the Party of the Regions. Valérie Baranov will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u6	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, Ukrainian citizens! The issue of food supply is of constant concern to society. Thus, the successful work of the agribusiness complex can either cause anxiety or calm our people. So I want to give you a little bit of information that on October 6th, more than 5.7 million hectares of winter were sown in all of Ukraine's farms. That's 400,000 hectares more than the corresponding date of last year. In general, it is predicted that crops of winter crops will be planted in an area of nearly 8 and a half million hectares. And for that, there's both the seed and everything else in order to successfully complete the seed campaign. As far as harvesting is concerned, we also hope that this year, when we finish harvesting corn, we will get at least 39 to 40 million tons of Val. Grain and in sufficient quantities of food wheat. Monitoring is carried out by the Ministry and other food grain services in the country. Yesterday, the Cabinet of Ministers also introduced a quota that would also guarantee both the need for food and the need for bread to provide for the state. Unfortunately, at a slow pace, the formation of a state intervention fund is taking place. At the designated marketing year to purchase 1.2 million tons, the Agrarian Fund has made contracts to purchase only 366,000 tons. There is also a significant drawback to this and to the timely financing of the Agrarian Fund. Yes, of the planned two billion so far, only 1 billion dollars have been allocated. There is also insufficient funding for support programmes, including, for today, such important programmes as fiscal subsidies and state support for plant production are not fully funded, partial compensation for the cost of complex agricultural techniques of domestic production is not financed, as is the purchase of tribal cows and domestic technology and equipment for the agro-industry complex and subsequent implementation of agricultural enterprises. No bracelet has been funded yet, and no government support for agricultural cooperatives or anything else. So the financing situation needs immediate influence from the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Finance, whatever it wants. I'd like to address these government agencies today. In general, the food security situation seems perfectly normal.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u7	Valerius Baranov, Lithuanian Block faction. Oleg Lazko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u8	Baranov, Block of Lithuania, People's Party. Respected deputies, Ukraine had never become a State that ensured local self-government for its citizens. Moreover, each new authority, by declaring the self-development of the territorial communities, is in fact continuing to strengthen the centralization of power and the centralization of finance. Nineteen years have been declared the intention to carry out administrative reform, dismantle the dead planning and distribution system and, in fact, the gendarmerie management system. The system doesn't work, it stifles any initiative, prevents workers from working, robs them, and can't support the unprotected. The system just needs to be dismantled, it's not to be reformed. When, then, do we eliminate the regional district administrations that act as partners? Why does local authority not have executive committees? And can the local authorities, gathered from party rather than professional ranks, which are far from the same, be able to implement the President's best programmes? Who can answer these questions? Society is still looking forward to long-awaited reforms, but why have they not been declared? Why do experts not discuss them openly where the dialogue of government and society is? If the objective is not defined and smart mechanisms for achieving it are not defined, the outcome is unlikely to be expected. And the faith of society will perish, and hope for the future will die. A strong example is the Tax Code. Why is it closed and not discussed before adoption? Is it understood that this is the Constitution of the economy and the basis of the life of business? We're talking about 60 percent of the business in the shadows. Why? Because if you pay all the bills, you're going bankrupt right now. Who came up with these rules, who believes that they are happy to work at losing? Is it possible to adopt a codex here “on the clock” without deep analysis and minimization of risks? What does he give the forgotten local government and the return of the people living in the cities and villages paying the same taxes? I'll answer right away. It's gonna get worse. It would appear that the Budget Code increases resources to local self-government by 23 billion, but not many know that this money will go solely to budget holders, energy carriers, while garbage disposal, sewage, water, heat, light, roads, transport, kindergartens and schools, in general, everything that concerns people daily, as before, has no source of funding. What's more, it's going to be 2.2 billion less. Our local self-government has only 8 per cent of the total budget that comes to the city or the area. In all developed European countries, at least 20 are in Poland, and 80 are in Denmark. As many as eight in Berdjansk, there are only small African countries and tribes. If we are unable to decentralize power and finance, none of the most intelligent, sensible reforming ideas will benefit our society. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u9	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u10	I ask the President to listen to the demands of local self-government and to begin a radical reform of our outdated and ineffective governance system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u11	Oleg Lazko, BUT faction. Vadim Koleschenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u12	Thank you. Oleg Lazko. I think we can fully explain President Yanukovich's logical desire to gain the authority that President Kuchma had. After all, we all remember that in fact the change to the 2004 Constitution was the result of the compromise of political elites, which led to Viktor Yanukovic being President of Ukraine. After winning the presidential election, Yanukovich understood his desire to obtain the powers he felt he had been deprived of. And here you could understand the President if there were not one "but". Because the way it was done, that's how we were shown in this country through the Constitutional Court. In fact, the method chosen to obtain maximum powers is unconstitutional, both under the 2004 Constitution and under the 1996 Constitution. Where there is article 5, which provides that the constitutional system in the country can change only the people. But not exactly 17 judges of the Constitutional Court, four of whom were appointed literally three days before the proclamation of the historic decision of the Constitutional Court. So I think that if President Yanukovic wanted to focus in his hands on the very important economic reforms for Ukraine, he would have to do it in a different way, either through a referendum to get people to give him that authority, or through a parliament where today's government has almost 300 votes, they'd still have a little bit of work and they'd have 300. Unfortunately, they went through the slightest resistance: they wanted it as good as ever, and it turned out to be unconstitutional. Sadly, however, only 7 percent of the country’s citizens are interested in constitutional problems. The other thing that matters is how they survive, how they support their families, whether they have jobs, or whether they have wages. I therefore believe that in today's conditions Parliament should focus on these priorities. I don't think we should paralyze Parliament's work because of problems that are not of interest to citizens. I think that the best way to get information is from the Supreme Council's rostrum, in direct encounters with people to make their stand. I believe that Parliament should be involved today, not in politics, but primarily in the consideration of economic bills that would allow the welfare of citizens to be improved. That's why I think the Supreme Council should first consider legislation on a moratorium on gas, on price increases on goods of general use, on a moratorium on age, and so forth. So all the questions that will improve people's lives today. Then we are thanked by the people, both the authorities and the opposition. If you and I are worried about questions that are of interest to the tenth part of the country's citizens, they won't say a good thing about them or those. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u13	Vadim Koleschenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Eugene Kirilchuk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u14	Respectable citizens of Ukraine! Colleagues! Voters! On 31 October this year, there will be fair, democratic elections in Ukraine, no matter how much someone wants to tear them down. The current local elections are taking place in difficult circumstances, at a time when the country is undergoing structural reforms that our country desperately needs, because the years of the work of the orange forces have put the country at the brink of collapse and only the operational, decisive actions of the new authorities have saved Ukraine from total collapse. The President of Ukraine, the Government, the Supreme Council, have done their utmost to ensure transparency and democracy in the forthcoming electoral campaign. On time, a new law was adopted, amendments aimed at ensuring equal conditions for participation by all political forces in those elections. As a result, in some electoral commissions, the opposition received an overwhelming majority. Moreover, on 16 September this year, the President of Ukraine, Viktor Fedorovic Janukovic, signed a special decree to prevent violations during the pre-election campaign, worked successfully with the Centre and the Commission on the ground. The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Azarov, invited representatives of foreign States of leading international organizations, in particular the Council of Europe and OSCE, to participate in the monitoring of the elections. The transparency of the actions of the parliamentary majority, the Government and the President show the world as a priority for our State of democratic values and the European path to development. But Timoshenko and her environment do not need a prosperous, stable Ukraine; today the opposition's actions are once again aimed at destabilizing the country's situation, organizing chaos, and taking power. The BET reiterates future falsifications, apparently preparing the site for its own falsifications. They have more than enough resources to implement such a scheme. The BET has a significant representation on local councils, electoral commissions, especially in central and western areas of Ukraine. While accusing the authorities of preparing mass forgeries, BUTT and its environment in advance accuses tens of thousands of people of a crime that has not taken place. These are the people who are members of the district electoral commissions. What a conscience, it's Timoshenko's brand. In turn, the Party of the Regions has repeatedly proposed signing a code on fair elections to all participants in the process. While the opponents have not responded to our calls, we guarantee that, despite provocations, violations of the law by the opposition, their desire to realize their selfish interests, contrary to the interests of Ukrainian citizens, elections will take place as openly, objectively as possible, within a legal time frame, and Ukrainian citizens will be able to exercise their constitutional law and form their executive representative bodies of local self-government, where they will receive their protection, their interests and the realization of their aspirations and hopes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u15	Eugene Kirilchuk, Timoshenko Street. The right to speak is given to Vladimir Bondarenko, please. Prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u16	Vladimir Bondarenko, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", the “Reforms and Orders” party. Recently, one of our colleagues in this rostrum just told us how good things are in the agrarian sector: and we sowed more, and we clean up the corn. However, if national wisdom is not sown by September 20, white flies, not wheat and other crops, such as grain that is sown in winter, and some other in winter varieties, will be sown in the first fields. So no one is sowing anything anymore, and today the earth is kneeling down, and there is no need to tell. Regrettably, respectable comrades, instead of engaging in politics, would have to do real farming. It's about the corn that someone else is going to clean. It can be cleaned up, but you will only speak when “bread is in the chamber, not in the yard”. It is also national wisdom. And all of this shows that there is no real policy in the agrarian sector, and the assurances that sound like this are worthless, because they're cut off from active programs like the small milk factories in Ukraine, like providing farmers with cow subsidies for those cows. And when I'm watching a party of regions today where the milk bank is being broken, let's add the last cow that will fall under the knife of the difference, because today this government of Azarov is actually destroying agriculture, destroying the remnants of the herd that are still in Ukraine, which once fed its people and we were exporting. Unfortunately, that's what you have to admit. Therefore, we need to look for ways to follow rather than simply pursue politics and tell how good things are. Go to the market and you'll see how good it is. Today, I would like to welcome all of us and the Ukrainian citizens with the fact that, just this week, the price of cheese in Ukraine has exceeded the maximum, that is, it has become the price of over 100 dollars per kilogram. This is the result that everyone can access today, everyone can check it by going into any gastronomy, universe, or market. That's what today is. What you can boast about. A well - known Russian poet, unfortunately already the late Leonid Filatov, said in his famous ballad “The Fedot the Sagittarius, ”“ We were given cheese, which is all of the holes. ” Now we have only holes from that cheese that was because the money to buy a kilogram of cheese is not found in every family. I think it's also an assessment of the policy of this power, which today is in the process of changing the Constitution, that draws back and forth laws that were pretty stable and normal, with one goal: to concentrate even more powers. But when you concentrate on authority, you concentrate on responsibility, and you have to learn to answer to the government of Yulia Timoshenko, who hasn't actually worked for a year, you haven't let him work in years when he was legitimate or when he was in power. So now take on what you are concentrating on today. I think we should do the contract today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u17	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u18	We need to deal with the contract today, especially in the animal system, we need to learn about the lysing of small technology today, and what else is different from politics. But it has an effect on agricultural production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u19	Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, the faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", will be next in Paris.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u20	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland’s Defenders Ladies and gentlemen, a few subjects. First. Let me welcome all the lawyers with Jurist Day and remind you what the ancients said:Justitia regnorum foundationum, that is, “The foundation of the State is justice”. On this very major note, let me finish because it is now submitted to the Supreme Council only from the Supreme Court for the resignation of 15 people, 15 out of 80. And all we have to do right now is consider resigning from today's Justice Committee meeting 118. What happened in court? A nuclear bomb went off, didn't it?Oh, my God! Yeah, it's a nuclear bomb! The unconscionable, mindless decisions voted in this room, which are called judicial reform. Even more foolish decisions have been made in another court, now called the Constitutional Court. I picked up the transcript and picked up the meeting schedule. At the same time, we adopted three laws under Law 2222. So the Constitutional Court had to be honest and, by declaring the law unconstitutional to say, and what about the President's Election Act on the third round, and what about all the acts of the state that were under the third president? What should we do? Nothing of this was answered by the Constitutional Court. What's more, I'd like to quote you a few prominent politicians in this sequence. Communists, Mrs. Marcus: “The day of truth has come when the session hall should vote for the authority that was usurped in one hand to be handed over to representatives of the people.” So by quoting Marcus, the authorities are now taking over the people, it's understandable, they're just fooling around and saying that it's the MPs. No, that is true of the people! Another wise person said such a thing: “It is obvious that this act, which has just taken place in Ukraine, is an act of consolidation, an act of reconciliation and an act of reconciliation, which shows that Ukraine is the only, indivisible, collective, and that we will all resolve matters in this way.” So this man is Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin. Vladimir Mikhailovich, that's what you said at 11 am 57 minutes ago, on the historic day of December 8, 2004. And finally, there's another smart person sitting in this room right now. She said: “Politics is a concentrated expression of the economy. Let us not forget about this main factor.” Pecklusenko, a member of the Party of the Regions, said that. Therefore, distinguished national MPs! I'd like to point out to you that it's completely different, but smart people have expressed themselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u21	Finish it, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u22	They spoke for the people to have a better life. And I would like to say that the Constitutional Court can do anything, even cancel the day and change at night. But we can't cancel the Constitution! The cat's thin. That's why I want to say, Your Honor, the Constitution is in 2004, and it works whoever wants it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u23	Andrey, right, and Karpuk gives it to you? So you're in place of Karpuk, are you? Karpuk is transferring the right to speak to the national deputy of Vyezovsky. In view of the absence of Paris, please remove it from the register.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u24	Dear Ukrainians! The lifting of political reform by a decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine radically changes the situation, the system of power in Ukraine. Contrary to the Constitution itself, these changes have always been made behind the back and without any consideration of the will of Ukrainian citizens. Today’s authorities have presumptuously made it clear that people’s thinking is not of interest to them. From now on, the current President and Parliament can act only within the limits of powers for which they have not received a mandate from the electorate. This situation has nothing to do with the right of the people. Under the cover of conspiratory decisions, the people took power. The usurpation of constitutional powers takes place at the same time as a total attack on all our rights and freedoms. It's aggression on all fronts. Taking away the will of the people, the authorities braked our movement toward European space, prosperity, and security. The government is preparing a language coup aimed at limiting the use of Ukrainian language and eroding the national essence of our statehood. The government does not exclude the possibility of double citizenship, which directly opens the door primarily for the uncontrolled entry into Ukraine of Russian nationality, business, and residence. The meaning of such a policy is clear. Today’s authorities are not interested in Ukrainian citizens; today’s authorities do not need a real state; this authority will be completely comfortable in the conditions of the Russian province. It's time to act. “Our Ukraine” urges all Ukrainian citizens who want to live in an independent, successful, self-sufficient, European state to join us in public protests, constitutional and language classes that begin in the country. We call for the joint action of every Ukrainian patriot, we call for cooperation by all ideologies and national democratic forces of the country. Our actions must be effective and tangible. Our choice is the opposition expressed in action. Join us, we want to hear people and we want people to hear us. “Our Ukraine” stands for the highest idea. The only source of authority in our country is the people, no one has the right to usurp his rights. The one who raises his hand to the rights of the people should receive national protection. The most important word is to be spoken to the Ukrainian. We're calling for action, we're calling for a folk party, stand with us. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u25	Yuri Odarchenko's handing over the right to speak to Andry Sinchenk, the BUTB faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u26	The Fatherland faction – BUT, Andri Sinchenko. Dear colleagues, we see with you the complexity of the economic and, consequently, social situation in the country. The Government has been unable to propose a draft budget for the coming year for a month. And we understand the reasons for this delay. They are related, not to technical reasons, to the fact that, as a result of the half-year economic policy and as a result of the reprisals that have been deployed throughout the country with regard to business, this 2011 budget, as well as this year's budget, is simply impossible to balance. The authorities are holding pompous investment forums, such as in Donetsk a week ago, and speak of the potential of our country, but they do not want to notice that investors are in fact fleeing the country. Those who have a place to run are fleeing, foreign investors, and our domestic investors, starting with representatives of small and medium-sized businesses, are simply shutting down their business or giving up their development plans that they might have had last year or earlier this year. The same is true of jobs as a consequence, so to speak, of the downturn of business and the deterioration of the investment climate, thus reducing the number of jobs. In order not to be loud, I'm just going to give examples of what power does in my native Simferopol about business. The Crimea concrete company, 800 people working. The enterprise is apparently only responsible for the fact that the Director-General was a confidant to the Presidents of Yulia Timoshenko in the second constituency. What's going on? In a criminal case instituted by a completely different legal entity, the enterprise has been terrorized for six months. The authorities have tried, it is as if the quintessation of absurdity, to seal up the enterprise where 800 people work as material evidence in a foreign criminal case. Well, they were afraid that people would just, I don't know, tear these authorities apart, and eventually they came up with a completely Jesuit measure. At the beginning of August, the Alpha Security Service, together with the entire, so to speak, civilian brigades simply ripped out and brought with them a technology computer that runs the main production line. And so it costs 800 people without a job. Gumateh Corporation – 415 weavers. This is the lightest industry Mikola Janović has promised to lift from this rostrum. Intentionally, the tax police arrested the accounts - and the third month the enterprise was paralyzed, unable to pay the salary, calculated with the counterparties. A famous story with the Black Sea Broadcasting Company, in which many of you, from various political forces, were on the air. They don't pay salaries for three months because they're under arrest.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u27	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u28	I want to say that there are only tens of them in my native Simferopol and thousands in the country. As a result, the economy has fallen, jobs have decreased and, as a result, the failure to fulfil all the many promises that power has made by going to the polls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, 30 minutes to the show is over. With regard to the proposals made by the National MPs, I ask that the Secretariat prepare appropriate letters, referrals and assignments, including the last three months' speech. I was there the last time -- really, the company's coworkers don't get paid. Obviously, they should receive a salary. And all else should be dealt with by those who handle the right matters. Dear colleagues, the two factions require a 30-minute recess to hold consultations on the agenda of the plenary or the application immediately, right? That's what we agreed. Sergei Sass. Dear colleagues, Sergey Sas will inform you within three minutes of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u30	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! National Deputy Sas, Yulia Timoshenko Faction, Fatherland Party. Dear colleagues, today has been an unprecedented event: we have come to the registration tables today -- and for the first time in a long time, we have not received the order of the day to address today's issues. I wanted to remind the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Volodymyr Mikhajlovich Litvin, that according to part of article 88 of the Constitution of Ukraine, it is the Head of the Supreme Council that exercises the authority provided for by this Constitution in the order established by the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the issue of the agenda that is exclusively relevant to its competence. Today, according to the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Wednesday and this day refer to issues of opposition. Today, according to the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council of Lithuania announced statements by the National Deputies, but in the same article of the Rules, part five of the Rules states that the issues of the agenda of the High Council's plenary meeting, which remained pending in the plenary session, are being considered by the Supreme Council at its next plenary meeting, a matter that, apart from the issues that have been considered, has been held in accordance with the procedure set out in this Rules for the proposal of Parliament's opposition, which is being considered by the Supreme Council at its next plenary session on the day referred to for consideration of the motion of parliamentary opposition according to part of this. in the third article. Therefore, Vladimir Mikhailovich, we today demand that all the issues that will be brought to the attention of the Supreme Council be formed by opposition, as provided for in the Rules. Vladimir Mikhajlovich, and continuing on this topic, wanted to say that by bringing the issue to the Supreme Council's attention today, as we know, of securing the Constitutional Court's decision, you personally, by changing the Main Committees, were able to play the table in the soles of the floor, a suitable national game of "asshole". I warn you, whoever does this, sitting at the table, eventually, sooner or later, will become what this game is called. Therefore, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we demand that the requirements of the Rules be clearly met. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u31	Honorable National Deputies, regarding the implementation of the Rules. I don't think the Rules foresee blocking the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes! Dear colleagues, you don't have to shout! In accordance with the Regulations of Tuesday at 16 p.m., the Supreme Council of Ukraine had to consider issues that were scheduled for Tuesday. Since that was not possible, the Supreme Council of Ukraine will now consider these issues and consider Wednesday. I ask you to calm down, rule one for all, let's stick to it, and we'll be fine. Dear colleagues, calm down! Everything will be by law according to the Rules. I'm going according to the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations. [[B in m in s a l in]] All of it! Please, calm down. Calm down! Anyone who wants to run for office is a statement, please. 150 statements, and less talk, the Supreme Council of Ukraine will consider them. And let's work at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. All of it! I ask you to calm down, or I look at your sick face, your concern for the people. Calm down! Ladies and gentlemen, we are now moving on to the issues that are set out in the timetable for today. I would like to announce for consideration the draft Ordinance on the Enforcement of the Decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 30 September 2010 No20-pp/2010 on the conformity of the Constitution of Ukraine with the Act on the Amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine of 8 December 2004 No 2222-IV You and I have decided that we are considering the issue in a simplified way. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, report. And from the Makeenko Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u32	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! You have a draft ruling that Vladimir Mikhailovich gave yesterday, and on Monday we made an agreed decision to consider it in the session room. All amendments to this draft regulation under the Rules have been taken into account. There's the Commission's personal warehouse here, and rules 80 have been implemented. Article 84 of the Rules, part. Article 85 of the Rules, part four. Therefore, the proposals that were here are reflected in the regulation. There is a proposal to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u33	Thank you. Vladimir Makeenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u34	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich! The committee at its meeting considered the bill and decided to support the establishment of the Provisional Inquiry Commission of the Supreme Council in connection with the Constitutional Court’s decision of September 30, 2010. The list has been handed out. Regrettably, no nominations were received from the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. It is proposed that the head of the temporary special commission of the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich, be elected. Deputy Head of the Temporary Commission, National Deputy Spenov Dmitry Yuriovich. Choose Voropeyeva Jurija Mikolaiovich, Kamchatya Valerija Grigorovitch, Knjazević Ruslan Petrovich, Matvijeva Valentina Grigorovitch, Mirošnikka Yuria Romanović, Pavelka Sergija Grigorovitch, Pisarenka Valery Volodymyrovich, Stretovič Vladimir Mikolaiovich. Please support this draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u35	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, sign up for the discussion: two – “for”, two – “against”. Names of the national MPs, please. Mikhailo Chechetov, next will be Vladimir Bondarenko. Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u36	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! You know, even junior students, whether they learn Ukrainian or Russian, know there's a theorem and there's an axiom. Theorem is a statement that requires evidence, can be proved, discussed, and axiom is a statement that is not accepted and proved. All of it. So the Constitutional Court's decision is not a theorem, there's nothing to prove and discuss, it's an axiom. Not to prove it, not to discuss it, it's the school kids who know it, even the kids know it. And you're kind of done with the institutes, with the degrees and the rank, and you can't distinguish the theorem from the axiom, yes. Therefore, to date, there is a Constitution and, above all, the task of Parliament, today, so that we can change the relevant laws very quickly and not lose the country's authority. It was difficult for us to establish the governance of the State after five years of chaos. Governance has been restored, and today, very quickly amending the Cabinet of Ministers Act, the Rules on Parliament's Work. [[th m in s a l i]]
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u37	Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u38	The State's effective governance system must be strengthened, as it is at the heart of both the country's economic success and social success. We therefore propose to vote in favour of this order and to allow all professionals, all deputies from different factions very quickly, to quickly develop legislative material requiring changes in accordance with the Constitution. So once again, the Constitutional Court's decision is an axiom, you go to school, you go to primary school.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u39	Vladimir Bondarenko. Sergey Sass, please have the right to speak, the BUT faction. Vladimir Karpuk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u40	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! What can be said about the bill? It's completely illegal, it's worthless, it's legal, it's contradictory by content and it's dangerous in fact. What do I mean? The project, which had been handed out earlier, is now a little bit painted, the lips have been painted on the regulatory committee, it contradicts anything that can only be violated in this Parliament. What do I mean? Deprived of the right of the deputy faction of Yulia Timoshenko to submit his proposals within five days before the commission's work is the first. Next. In accordance with the Rules, the Committee on Legal Policy was designated as the Main Committee for the Preparation of the matter. Here's a print from the Supreme Council website. And in view of the fact that this committee was unable to consider this bill, the Chief of the Supreme Council in Shuleran, under ban, changes the commission and defines the Main Committee on the Rules of the Supreme Council, although this ruling does not apply to the subject matter of reference to this committee. Honorary colleagues and the Rules Committee, in violation of the Rules yesterday, in violation of article 9 of the Rules, cannot meet during plenary meetings, can be more faithful than the Supreme Council’s decision. He met at the first hour of the day during the plenary meetings. In violation of article 43 of the Committee Law, he made a totally illegal decision. Dear colleagues, regarding the substance of the bill, the content of the bill. You look at the context, the second part contradicts the third. You'll have to look ahead.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u41	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u42	Thank you. The commission is composed of a national MP, Pisarenko, although the proposals made by the commission are made exclusively by factions, the Pisarenco National MP is nonfractional; he cannot be a member of this temporary commission. And as for the content of the substance, let me tell you something like that. Dear colleagues! The change in the state system, the social order, takes place only in few cases. The first is when the referendum makes that decision, as a result of the revolution and as a result of the war. Today, 30 people in the Presidential Administration and in the Constitutional Court have changed the social order of the state, and the Supreme Council, thanks.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u43	Thank you, Vladimir Karpuk, please. Ruslan Knazevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u44	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Frankly, for some reason, we try to silence two fundamental things that directly apply to Parliament in this decision of the Constitutional Court. First and foremost. In fact, since the adoption of the decision on September 30, another legislative body has emerged in the Ukrainian State. So now that we're showing off to all these times on every television screen that we're the only legislative body in Ukraine in accordance with the Constitution, unfortunately, we're very low on this kind of decision, explaining that there's another body besides us that can make far more powerful and powerful decisions than we do. And the second point that comes out of the decision of the Constitutional Court is the third paragraph of the decision that puts its trust in the Supreme Council, think about it! – the obligation to adopt certain normative acts. And this is already, by the way, an encroachment on the principles of the constitutional system, because it violates the principle of the distribution of power: the court cannot impose and oblige the legislative body to do anything. But, dear fellows, this isn't about that. As far as the ruling is concerned, note the first paragraph of the judgment, and consider: “Take action before the Constitutional Court’s decision.” First of all, not accept, but take God with him. But we do not need to take for granted what the Constitutional Court does not require of us. We don't have to take anything to do, we just have to, if we're going to do it, do certain things that we think are appropriate to do. Because if we humiliate ourselves, we will continue to be humiliated. Then any district court will force us to do anything and we will execute any inconvenient judge ourselves face to face in the dirt so low. So in view of these circumstances, in such an editorial way, she can't accept the apriori, and I ask that you at least consider what fundamentally protects our political reputation with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u45	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the speeches are over, let's move on to the decision-making process. There is this proposal, the honourable colleagues, taking into account the statement by Ruslan Knazević, the first item to delete and continue to renumber these items. And Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, another proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u46	Dear colleagues! And then there's the eighth point, there's going to be the seventh. Where there is a material, technical, personnel, information and organizational provision of temporary special commission activities, I propose to add: “that secretariat of committees: on issues of state-building and local self-government, legal policy, rules, the organization of parliamentary ethics and the organization of activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine”. Because bills that relate to legislative changes arising out of the Constitutional Court’s decision will touch, including those committees.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u47	Thank you. Dear colleagues, have you got the offer? Adam Ivanovich's proposal and, taking into account Ruslan Knazevitch's proposal, I propose to delete the first item, to change the corresponding numbering, because the main task is for this temporary special commission to come up with the realities that have come together and make the appropriate proposals. That's why I think it's in this committee that we need to concentrate our efforts and we need to have representatives of all the political factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Taking these proposals into account, my honourable colleagues, I put it to a vote. What discussion? The discussion is over. One minute? No, I've been there, I can't, Yuri Anatolyevich, after. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote the proposal for approval of the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling as a decision to delete paragraph one, with a change in numbering and additions that Adam Martinyuk has just mentioned. [[Registration number 7200]] Please vote. [[10:52:48]] For 260 Decision taken. Thank you. The factions, please. Region Party – 176, "Block of Timoshenko" – 2, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 15, communists – 27, "Block of Lithuania" – 20, non-fractional – 20. What? Let's do it this way. Well, please, don't yell. Sergei, please. Friends, dear, don't shout. In a minute. Because the question is very annoying, please, Andrew Cosemiakin. Next, from others, Mikhail Chechetov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u48	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Andrew Kožemiakin, “The House of Julius Timoshenko - Party Fatherland. ” Dear Vladimir Mikhajlovich, in view of the fact that today, according to the rules in force that you very often like to refer to, we have the day of opposition, which is defined by regulations. And looking at what's happening today, we see that we've been deprived of that right. So today we see that the opposition, the opposition, is closing their mouths, she doesn't have her day in the Supreme Council. So, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich, we will leave the hall today in protest, not take part in the consideration of the issues that continue the constitutional coup d'état in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u49	Mikhailo Chechetov. It's a shame, dear colleagues, that we can't settle down here. That's too bad. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u50	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! We call for the constructive work of Parliament. Yesterday, we lost half a day in your favor when you failed to consider the agenda, where there were very important laws concerning both the economy and the social life of people. Therefore, logically, we are now starting to work, to conclude yesterday's agenda, there are several issues, and to move on to your issues, we will consider them in full procedure, as you wish, with full discussion, with full discussion. We respect the opposition, we respect the right of the opposition, we fight the opposition, we blow the dust off the opposition. If you can't choose a united leader of the opposition, we'll help you if you come to us. But I think it's up to you to choose, but today we invite you to work constructively. Vladimir Mihajlovich is absolutely right. Yesterday's issues need to be completed and the agenda for today must be moved on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I think so. Here's the proposal that you made, now that this speech is over, I'm going to put it to the vote so that the morning meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine can continue until we've completed our consideration of the issues set out in the Wednesday schedule. There's a desire to look at it, let's look at it. There's no desire, political demarches are the law. Please, Yuri Carmazin. I'm going to put it to a vote, and I'm going to ask you to support the consideration of all the issues set out in the schedule for today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u52	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, you are well aware that this is a road to nowhere to take such a decision, all the more so in reduced mode, no more without giving or hearing the opinion of the Committee of Legal Policy. We have set up a committee with you specifically to take care of the Constitution, constitutional changes. And in my opinion, we need to consider the issue now, and this for the whole of society needs to be called: “The situation that has arisen in the country in connection with the excess of power by individual judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine.” Because article 150 of the Constitution gives the right to decide on the constitutionality or unconstitutionality of laws, not the Constitution, in general. And so the unprecedented things that have happened need to be discussed, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Otherwise, the discussion will take place on the street. Why would you do that? We're doing everything for someone else. That's why I'd ask you as much as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, in view of our understanding here, I have this request. I will put to the vote the proposal that the morning meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine continue until the moment of consideration. Let's vote. Dear colleagues, do we need to work or do we not want to work? Is there a desire to consider a question or not? I am voting on the proposal: the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will continue until the Wednesday agenda is completed. Please vote. [[10:58:00]] For the 250. Please. Please. The factions, please. Just a minute. Region Party – 171, “Clock Timoshenko” – 1, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 13, Communists – 27, “Clock of Lithuania” – 19, non-fractional – 19. Please, Oleg Lakota, microphone. So let's see who wants to work, who doesn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u54	Thank you. Oleg Lazko. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I voted in favour of your proposal, because today, as I said, we have important issues to consider for citizens, particularly the economic plan. But I have a request for you. Colleague Sas has already spoken, not the order of the day. Please give this order, which we will now consider, because there is no order of the day in the MPs. And we're ready to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u55	I ask you to find out the secretariat and the head of the apparatus, why not schedule the meeting? It's an outrage. I am announcing a draft regulation on parliamentary hearings on the situation of young people in Ukraine, Youth for a Healthy Lifestyle. [[November 3, 2010]] [[Registration number 7162]] Please consider this issue with a reduced procedure. Please proceed with the reduced procedure. [[10:59:33]] For 219 Decision taken. The reporter is Paul Kostenko. And to your informant's knowledge, your esteemed colleagues, who have 10 questions left for consideration today, on Tuesdays that have not been considered by blocking the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and then the questions proposed for consideration of the proposals. So there is no problem with excitement. Please, Paul Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u56	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! On behalf of the government, the Ukrainian Ministry of Family, Youth and Sports asked the Supreme Council of Ukraine to hold a parliamentary hearing on the situation of young people in Ukraine today on the theme “Youth for a healthy lifestyle”. The committee has fully supported this initiative, and the draft decision has been tabled for your consideration today. A few words about the urgent need for such hearings. It is common to know that only 20 percent of our health depends on the environmental impact, 20 more is due to inheritance, 10 percent of our health, and the rest 50 percent of our health is unique to our living conditions and lifestyle. The most important task is to preserve the health of the growing generation, since it is as a child that both the roots of future diseases and the foundations of a strong human health fortress and its offspring are laid. Sadly, reality is inconvenient. Today, only about 15 percent of fully healthy babies are born in Ukraine. By the time they enter school, about 80 percent of children have health problems, and they finish school healthy, and think about it, only 6 to 9 percent of graduates. I’m not talking about all the known cases of child deaths in physical education classes in schools, annual problems with the health of conscripts, and so forth. At the same time, it is worth noting that in real life, apart from physical health, the concept of “human health” includes three elements: social, spiritual and mental. And in all of this, despite the fact that there are about a dozen national programs in Ukraine aimed at promoting a healthy way of life for children and young people, it is in these categories of our citizens that there are a lot of problems, so identify the main ones, explore the causes and make specific recommendations for overcoming them and the proposed hearings. Given the social importance and relevance of the proposed topic, the committee proposes to adopt the project.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u57	Finished, have you got anything? Dear colleagues, do you have any comments? None. Can we put this proposal to the vote? Alla Alexandrovska, please. Sit down, Paul Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u58	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u59	Well, that's one thing to vote on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, I draw your attention to the fact that the issue is of course very important, but I do not want it to be considered only in the context of a state of health. We are well aware that a healthy way of life is due to very many factors, especially the opportunity for young people to receive education. If a person is educated, he increases his cultural level, he increases his intelligence, he has the ability to realize himself as an individual in his life. The second factor is housing, and we realize today that virtually no housing for young people is available to young families. Therefore, I would like to look at this issue in the walls of Parliament, and we have clearly drawn attention to what public programmes exist to ensure that young people have the prospect of receiving their homes from young families. Without their homes, there will be no family, no healthy children, no normal living conditions. And last but not least, it's free time for young people today to have a lot of free time because they can't find a job. Today, people who have received higher education have spent, including on this money, cannot get a job, earn money, and have a family to raise children. We must therefore address this issue in the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the context of, inter alia, the mandatory guaranteed first place for a three-year period for those who. for those young people who receive higher education. And such a bill was introduced by the Communist faction leader Simonenko, and we must say that, at the expense of the State, these people, young people who have received higher education, should have the opportunity to have a real professional life with professionals, otherwise, you know, no one takes them to work. That is the context in which we, the Communists, support this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision as a decision to hold parliamentary hearings on the situation of young Ukrainians, Youth for a Healthy Lifestyle, registration number 7162. Please vote. [[11:05:26]] For 253 Decision taken, thank you. Now, the 2011 Parliamentary Hearings on Child Health and Recreation and the Young, February 9, 2011 Project. It's for the next session. Here I'd like the Supreme Council to have that in mind. Please, Paul Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u62	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! In accordance with Supreme Council Order 2414-6 of July 1, 2010, under the chairmanship of the Vice-President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mikli Tomenko was held by the Committees of the Supreme Council on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism, Science and Education, Health and Health, hearings on health issues, children's rest and youth. An analysis of the 2009-2010 health campaign showed a number of problems in the organisation of the health process. Well, given that we're considering this bill of passage in a reduced procedure, I'm not going to notice your attention to all the consequences and causes of that health campaign that was launched in 2010, but I'm just going to say that the venue for the closure of children's health and rest facilities is mostly private, and the health change that the law provides for 21 days, in certain areas of Ukraine, it has been between 14 and 18 days. Under these conditions, most of these camps do not meet the modern requirements for providing children with health care. The solutions to the above - mentioned problems in providing health care and recreation for children and young people need to be widely discussed with the involvement of all public authorities. Thus, the heads of the family, youth policy, sport, and tourism, science and education committees, health, and the Supreme Council of Ukraine introduced a draft decree on 9 February 2011 for parliamentary hearings to address the health and rest of children and young people. At its meeting on September 22, 2010, the Committee adopted a decision recommending that the Supreme Council of Ukraine consider the draft regulation and adopt it as a whole. At the same time, according to the proposal of the Ministry of Profitability, paragraph two is proposed: “The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will prepare the necessary information and analysis materials on the subject of parliamentary hearings distributed to the Ukrainian National Deputies by 24 December 2010.”
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u63	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u64	Please support the draft decision with the clarifications I have proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the performance. Alla Alexandrovska, then Ivan Hare. Alla Alexandrovska, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u66	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Dear colleagues, while supporting the Committee's proposals on the need for such parliamentary hearings, I draw your attention. When we address the Government, we entrust them with the preparation of relevant analytical materials, most often we receive materials relating to public budget funding issues, issues relating to the implementation of public programmes. However, what is really happening to us. A large number of children have always been well - being at the local level in local pioneer camps during Soviet times. What is happening in the city of Harikov shows that many health camps have been privatized, fell into private hands, ceased to exist. In considering such an important issue as the recovery of children, I would like to go beyond just how public programmes are being implemented, how much money is being allocated to this money in Gosbudget, so that we can also prepare information and to the Property Fund and there may be a Special Privatization Monitoring Commission to collect material, what has happened at the regional level, what has happened at the regional property relations level. Because the regional councils, the city councils today have little or no serious health base to enable them to carry out their regional programmes for the recovery of children. Today, very many departments of child health institutions have been in private hands. In fact, land is used to be used and the land is usually located in rest areas. Therefore, I would like to see, in addition to considering public funding issues, how the State programme is being implemented, what is happening on the ground where children's health institutions have gone, and to take decisions to return them, in return, so that our children can rest and recover at the regional level.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u67	John the Rabbit, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u68	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear National Deputies! I think we need to use these parliamentary hearings to talk seriously enough about changing state policy in this area, because what do we have to do about curing children? Before we take a small part of the children to a sanatorium, to some camps, and we think that we have cured these children. But we can see that there is a rapid process of spreading among young people, among children and drunkards, and drug abuse, and an unhealthy life - style in a different way and so forth. So it seems to me that we have to look at this problem a lot more, and to do that we have to spend a lot more money in the budget than 37 out of 37 billion dollars, dollars, government budget, we can't raise money for kids, I just don't believe it. Children should also be healed spiritually, for if a person is spiritually mature, if a person is brought up, he will run away from this drug abuse, this drunkard. If we develop a physical and sports system, it will go and work to improve its health. And we have to see what's going on at the other end of this. We continue to destroy stadiums, sports courses, playgrounds. We have in the Supreme Council two bills behind my authorship, the authorship of Yuri Kostenko on the moratorium on the destruction of these structures, but we are not in a hurry to consider them. So let's not hold these parliamentary hearings for the galore, not just to knock some copy out of the sanatorium, but to educate the young man fully as a patriot and citizen of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u69	Oleg Zarubinsky, Lithuanian Block faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u70	Oleg Zarubinski, People's Party, Block of Lithuania. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, a respected colleague, does not in fact call into question the importance and relevance of this topic, which is proposed by the profile committee. But I do have a few questions, one question, in memory every year, we're looking at this issue in different formats, often, densely in the form of parliamentary hearings. This is the question that I have, and what changes the concept, the program, the strategy for the recovery of children in the summer. What is the problem, why parliamentary hearings are held all the time on the same issue? Perhaps it is because no one needs the conclusions and recommendations of these hearings, first. Secondly, maybe they're not going to carry on any of the tasks that go before the executives. Hence, there is no obstacle to another consideration of the matter. But I would like to ask about the effectiveness of this kind of parliamentary hearing, their productivity and efficiency, and more precisely the lack of any kind of performance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u71	Oleg Laszko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u72	We support our colleague Costenko's initiative to hold parliamentary hearings, and the issue is very relevant to children's rest. And I am personally at the expense of the MP's work. And I know that many of my colleagues present in this room have done their own work of curing children, both in this year and in the last few years. But it is clear that this is a pitfall compared to what these children really need, for especially children from low - income families, who, unfortunately, today in Ukraine millions, are unable to recover and then, unfortunately, grow up with very poor health. And that's why I think it's an up-to-date question. But the only problem is that these parliamentary hearings scheduled for December 24 are likely to be adopted by then for the next one, by then the budget will be adopted next year. [[The more the merrier.]] And again, the budget will not provide a single penny for the recovery of these children, or just three million dollars in this year’s budget. So I propose in this decision to complete it, and to entrust the Cabinet of Ministers with the preparation of the budget for the current year to foresee an increase in the cost of raising children. And I think it's going to be more important than Zarubinsky's colleague correctly said that we talk a lot -- only a few people pay attention to it. So I'd like to go from words to action and anticipate the cost of recovery. This will be the best support on our part to solve this urgent problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u73	Dear colleagues! The discussion is over. I'm drawing your attention before we put it to a vote, which is that we're already defining our work for the next session. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a decision on the 2011 implementation. [[B in m in s a l in]] If we don't vote, there will be committee hearings. I am voting on the proposal to approve the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine decree to hold parliamentary hearings in 2011 on the health and rest of children and young people. [[Registration number 7117]] with the refinements that Paul Costenko made. That's what we can't do after the results. [[11:16:54]] For 261 Decision taken. And with regard to Oleg Laska's proposal, I ask you to record as a protocol commission to make an appropriate reference to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Is that a position? Thank you. Dear colleagues! Now we have to consider three bills that deal with the question of the grain market. Would it not be objectionable if we considered these bills in this way? The rapporteurs would be heard, and then the co-report, since the committee's head is a co-reporter, then we discussed these laws, but we voted them separately. Well, dear colleagues, I propose that we unify the consideration of these three issues. Dear colleagues, offer, there will be a vote. Please vote for this proposal and consider it as a reduced procedure Ivan Alexanderovich, do you see how many questions there are for consideration today? [[11:18:10]] For 239. Decision taken. Thank you. And we voted in favour of a reduced procedure at the same time. We voted. Rapporteurs: Ukrainian national deputies Senchenko Andry, Tkachenko Alexander Mikolayovich and again Tkachenko Alexander Mikolayovich, co-rapporteur of the Kaletnik Committee. Please, Andrew Vilenovich. No, of course not. Alexander Mikolaiovich, please come to the committee. Grigory Mikolaiovich, committee, please. If you need to, six minutes for three documents. You don't have to?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u74	Honorable Volodymira Mikhailovich, a respected colleague, is being considered for a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Law on Grain and the Market in Ukraine. Registration number 3228. The aim of the project is to create modern legislative instruments to ensure that the regulatory market mechanism of open markets is implemented exclusively on accredited markets. According to the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the introduction of a legislative initiative deserves support. The arguments for their adoption are given in the explanatory note by the authors to the draft law. The committee discussed the bill at the September 7, 2010, meeting and decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine consider the bill in plenary session. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u75	All of you report.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u76	Bill 7060, draft decree. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine considered the bill at its meeting on September 7. And I want to say right now, and registration number 7061 of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Grain and Grain Market Act. [[on the full provision of the needs of the State in grain]] This draft regulation and draft law are essentially decided by the Cabinet of Ministers yesterday to introduce quotas for the export of grain from Ukraine and to carry out appropriate monitoring with the aim of providing exactly the needs of the State in food grains and fodder grains and seed funds, with the implementation of all the agreements that are in Ukraine. Therefore, the need for the adoption of these laws to be automatically abandoned. And I'm asking you to take these bills off the table. Thank you for your attention. If you have a question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u77	Thank you. Please sit down. Please sign up, your honors, for a discussion. Here's Alexander Mikolaiovich, and I'm asking you for your bills. You're ready, aren't you? Please. Yes, yes. Bills 7060 and 7061. Microphone, four minutes, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u78	Dear colleagues! I think that in the state that Ukraine is in today’s food supply, perhaps the last decade has never been. For the first time today, we are faced with the fact that when 117 kilograms [117 kg] of bread per capita is produced, 117 kilograms [117 kg] of bread last year when at 145 - 150 people cannot eat bread. I don’t say other things — meat, milk, sugar, and so forth. Today, Ukraine has collected 41 million tons of grain. This is how the appropriate agrarian organs report. And let's take a little walk. Can we sell bread or can't we? The thing is, if that 41 million tons would really be, of course. We need waterline to provide food grains and soybeans for 38 million to 40 million. Today they show 41, but they've been recorded, 10.7 million tons of grain produced in the dotted areas. Show me at least one million of these tens, what this grain is in the state. I think it's a huge adage, a huge mistake. Today they show that 9 million are going to be corn. But we saw what a year it was. Is it necessary to be a large agronomist or a large agronomist, that there will be no corn? So it's going to be a 30-32 million-million-dollar issue with 38.5 to 40. Do we have the opportunity to export bread today? And the Cabinet of Ministers, literally, is two days ago making a decision that you can sell 3.5 million tons of bread. I think it's not just a huge mistake, it's a damage to the economy, to the ruined economy of Ukraine. So I'd like to say a simple thing. Let's count it. 476 million people, 150 kilograms of bread per capita plus the insurance fund is 13-14 million tons of bread needed in the grain because the rate of 70 to 75 flour. Let's figure out how much it takes for meat, milk, eggs, and so forth, without which the population can't, the genotype, develop, the Ukrainian. At least 16 to 17 million, I'm not saying 26-32, which was in Soviet power, I'm taking 50 percent of everything. I'll take the third: 4-4.2 million tons of grain is needed as a soybean material with a coward. And the last. People were to be counted for what they did bitterly in the fields: sowing, cleaning, tending, and transporting the grain. Do you have to settle for a job? Yes, of course. Either it's for pie or it's for direct work. That's why I think today the grain shaft in Ukraine is no more than 30-32 million, if you need 38.5. I think the decision taken today by the Cabinet of Ministers is anti-State. I have not heard my colleague Kaletnik's speech, but he is a wise man who is deeply aware of agricultural issues, and I think he said how much money the state allocates in the budget for all five types of purchases, including Agrofund, including DAC “Bread” and regional.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u79	Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u80	I don't think the state's predicting this kind of money. Summary, output, conclusion simple. Dear colleagues, we must, the company on whose behalf I speak is not against export, we are for export, but when it is possible, when there is a resource in the state, when the state invests a hectare of land and gets enough for both internal needs and export needs. If we go to the level of not cheating, but at the level that was 1990, at least 50-52 million, we can then sell 10-12 million. There is no such possibility today, so we have to make one decision by law, and by the order of the Cabinet to ban the export of bread this year, deal with the available resources, and then from the new year, perhaps we can go back to that question if we can see that we can provide livestock and primarily our citizens with enough bread and bread products. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u81	Thank you. Alexander Mikolayovich, we're in the middle of a brief procedure, there's no questions. Roman Tjak, please turn on the microphone. The faction “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Alla Alexandrovska will then perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u82	Roman Tkac, MP “For Ukraine!” Unfortunately, in Ukraine, as always, when there is a crop, it all boils down to one thing: one part of those who are involved in this market says to explicitly ban the export of grain, the other part says that they should be exported. Perhaps the truth, as always, is somewhere in the middle. First of all, the question is not when to export, how much, at what price. The issue of grain production is closely related to other directions. Today, there is virtually no animal farming in Ukraine. Today, meat products are being imported into Ukraine. Last year’s disgraceful fact is that half a million tons of beef and pork were introduced. Here's the question. Therefore, it is not possible only to remove the grain or to export it. But when you talk about the substance of the bill, so far, unfortunately, again, it's a situation that's not settled by law. And, look, there's actually no legal ban on grain exports today. But different regulations, different sub-normative acts: whether it's customs, or any department, today about a million tons of grain is already loaded for export. And he's not actually taken out under a non-existent ban. And that's why this bill is, to some extent, proposing to regulate this grain market. So this is where it all comes down. It's very simple. The grain maker has the right to export it. The things that we need to provide for the inner grain, we're granting the Cabinet of Ministers authority. All that grain that can be more than internal needs, it can be exported through the stock market, that's what the bill is about, 3228. As for the ban on grain exports, this cannot be done. In recent years, Ukraine has been positioning itself in the world as one of the grain exporters. When we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u83	Allow me to finish the speech, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u84	When we are. When we freeze today. We're going to ban the export of grain, we're going to lose our face in the world one more time, and so the wisdom is to secure the internal market, to ensure the production of animal production, and all those surpluses can either be produced by grain or grain traders can be exported outside Ukraine. So I propose that we adopt Bill 3228 as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u85	Alla Alexandrivska, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u86	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Dear colleagues, I call on you to support and vote in favour of the proposed draft laws. Alexander Nikolayevich made it very clear to us that today, according to statistics, the quantities of grain that are supposed to exist in Ukraine are not enough for our people to have a guaranteed opportunity to buy bread. We see with you today the value of bread every day in Ukraine, in Kharkiv and in Kiev, everywhere, of bread of all kinds, and no one can keep that price, let us say. Secondly, only often did my colleague, Tjak, speak of meat being imported and said that we should not lose our face, so we cannot stop exporting grain, that is, what communists are seeking in time. Very good idea, today we know that in Europe, indeed, do not produce that they lack grain and flour today. That's why, according to our colleague Tkacha, we must leave our citizens without bread, because there will be a shortage of bread, it will be expensive, of course. We must take, including the fodder grain abroad, the cattle must be grown there, and we will also import meat. So we're finally going to bury the agrarian sector in Ukraine, we're going to bury the poultry farming, we're going to bury the livestock farming, we're going to lose our milk, and most of all, we're going to keep our own person, the supplier of the grain to Europe. Don't we care about our nation's health? We don't care what the price is for people to buy bread in Ukraine? We Communists don't care! We will support the bills of our comrades Tkachenko and Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u87	Oleg Lazko hands over the right to speak to John the Rabbit. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u88	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm here to adopt Bill 3228, and here's my argument. I'm a man of national conservative views and I confess to the ideology of dynamic conservatism. But in this case, I support the liberal measures proposed by the drafters of the bill, namely, the purchase by traders of grain for export only through the stock exchange. Because existing grain export mechanisms make agricultural producers hostage to grain traders and their monopolistic plots under the corrupt roof of power. Such an anti-market economic mechanism simply kills an agricultural producer, prevents the village from rising from its knees. Real, affordable agricultural markets are impossible without the full and wide-ranging functioning of markets, where demand and supply are crippled and are reaching a favourable balance between the two sides. We cannot continue to accept the situation in Ukraine in the grain market. With the rapid increase in the price of grain on the world market, which creates conditions for the restoration of the Ukrainian village, in Ukraine, the purchase prices of grain are artificially confused by the joint efforts of authorities and traders. Their common interest in low purchase prices for grain in the internal market is that the authorities want to buy grain in the Agrarian Fund at minimum prices, and traders want to gain profits on the price difference between low domestic and high world prices. The purchase of grain for export through the stock market will significantly limit the ability of traders, nonmarket manipulation authorities, and rural looting. Remember, too, that the vast majority of grain traders are, not Ukrainian businesses, but branches of international transnational corporations, to which the Ukrainian village is not in pain. The Ukrainian village is a cradle of the Ukrainian nation, and only the enemy will act against the real market mechanisms to protect the Ukrainian village. To conclude, I would like to propose a few necessary conservative measures. The main ones are the introduction of export duties on grain exports as a strategic resource, such as raw materials to generate additional value in large quantities right inside the country, namely, meat and meat products, milk and milk products, and various products.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u89	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u90	Pomegranates, such as pasta, would form the basis for our agricultural exports. An example of such a right conservative policy is that it will bring a tax on sunflower seeds, which even in the WTO market requirements we did not agree to lower below 10 percent. For those in the hall who like to follow an example from Russia, I remind them that Russia is laying its energy resource — oil or gas — in a hundred dollars per tonne. I'm not just surprised, but I'm outraged by the fact that grain traders are building super-modern infrastructure just for mass exports of grain, or raw materials, and they're not investing money to create a modern food processing industry for further export of finished high-level processing. Similarly, they do not invest in the construction of modern animal complexes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u91	Thank you. Paul Sulkowski, one minute. Then the non-fractional ones are Crnowil and Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u92	Paul Sulkowski, faction of the Party of the Regions, Ravenshkin. You know, dear colleagues, Vladimir Mikhailovich, you've seen today how extremely many of these people here are concerned about the fate of Ukraine, for the people of Ukraine, that they may be without bread. I believe that this wickedness is complete, complete wickedness, and that is not true. I think it is no less for us today to think and be responsible, first of all, for the President of Ukraine, Viktor Yanukovic, Prime Minister, Mikola Azarov. And I think we should believe, like the people of Ukraine, in the first place, these great politicians. I am convinced that they will do anything, not allow for the danger of a food program, food security, as allowed by the oranges of the previous five years. And there was no famine and there was no Ukraine without bread. So I think that these projects I would have rejected without exception, let me be honest with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u93	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u94	Thank you. Literally yesterday, a quota decree was adopted in the Cabinet of Ministers. And they're thinking about what they're going to do, government. And I would like to encourage that we should trust the Cabinet of Ministers, the government in charge of the Prime Minister, and there are absolutely no warnings here that we will not accept, and that will be true. We place full responsibility for Ukraine’s food security on a hundred percent of Ukraine’s Cabinet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u95	Thank you. Taras Cranville.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u96	Dear colleagues! When you read those bills, it's such a feeling that our village is so loved that they want to strangle it in their arms, that's exactly what that phrase is. If it's about the first bill, it happens. It's logical in itself, but there's one realization that, without the normal rules of marginal cost-effectiveness on markets and so on, we're actually creating for the village an additional bully and we're clearly establishing the possibility of an additional middleman picking up a peasant. So in other bills, it's just as simple as me, savagery. Because the moratorium, I'll say it's for raising the price of bread, it's for not growing the grain in Ukraine at all. You go with that peasant and you try to get a loan for bread in the bank, and you can't get it. Now that he is not allowed to export the grain, take part in the export, and deprive him of his final circulation costs, and that is all. In Ukraine, only rape will be cultivated, and only technical crops will be cultivated. That's it. So I propose to reject these three laws now.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u97	Yuri Carmazin, last performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u98	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! Today, an extremely serious statement was made that the falsified state accounts were not much but 10 million tons. This needs testing, and I would ask you to give Vladimir Mikhailovich a mandate to verify this data and to give an urgent message to the Supreme Council. This is the first time. It's different. I think today we need to unlock what happened in the village, see what's happening at this time, even in the Kirovograd area, instead of 8 million dollars, it's supported, 108 instead of 152 million, it's supported. We need to fund all the APC programmes immediately, buy immediately through the agrarian fund and Derzrezers and DAC “The Bread of Ukraine” 3-4 million tons for possible interventions. I'm drawing your attention to the government's decision 652, which reduces the cost of borrowing by 2.3 times, it's been cut ten times.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u99	Alexander Tkachenko, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, this year ends, a difficult year, with all the periods of agrotechnical sowing for the winters. Osimi Ukraine ends seeding on September 25, both the woodchopper and the field, and for example, on October 5, the steppe ends. Today only 50% of what needs to be sown is sown, that out of 8.5 million, 4.5 million are sown. The non-fertilized year one doesn't go, it's three years in a row, it's a cycle, it's a life cycle. There are specialists here who don't make me worse, and they understand very well what is being sown today 50% under the next year's harvest, should I be aging someone? Let's not do this year. What will we feed people, and what will we feed them? They're cutting the cattle to their feet, we're demolishing the nation specifically, so that we're said to be ripped to shreds? Let's do this. If we have a new president.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u101	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u102	The new government, the Literacy Parliament, let's go stately, not think about how traders ride in the Maybachs.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u103	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the issues have been discussed. I'll be asking each question separately for the vote, please. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Grain and Grain Market Act in Ukraine, on the purchase of grain for further export. [[Registration number 3228]] The committee's offering to take it as a basis. Please vote. [[11:42:11]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. Next, my dear colleagues, I put to the vote a draft decree establishing a moratorium on the export of grain from Ukraine for adoption. [[Registration number 7060]] [[11:42:45.]] For-30 The decision is not taken. One faction. The Communist faction. Please show the factions, please. The Party of Regions and the Block of Timoshenko are zeros, our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense 3, the Communists are 27, the Block of Lithuania and the non-factional is zero. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Grain and Grain Market in Ukraine. [[on the full provision of the needs of the grain State]] [[Registration number 7061]] To be accepted as a basis. [[11:43:36]] For-31 The decision is not taken. According to factions, please, Ivan Grigorovich, there is no discussion. [[B in m in s a l in]] So no, show me in the Rules where it's written. The Party of Regions, the Block of Timoshenko, the Zero, our Ukraine, the People's Self-Defense, the Four, the Communists, 27, the Block of Lithuania, zero, non-factional zero. The decision is not taken. Bills are rejected. What? Please, the microphone, John Alexander Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u104	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear National Deputies! I'm surprised that we've given up on such a complex issue as the land market, that the Party of Regions didn't vote in favour of purchasing grain through the stock market, means that you don't want to introduce economic regulatory mechanisms. You want to run this process by hand, you have to understand that this is going to destroy the entire village, it's going to make a situation where we have a grain producer getting a penny, and whoever takes out the grain is going to get a profit of $300 to $400, you understand that. And you're saying you're going to pursue politics to restore the village? You don't conduct this policy, you want to continue robbing the village! So I am outraged by the decision of those who did not vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u105	Gregory Kaletnik, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u106	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues, the bill, which a colleague of the “Our Ukraine” faction, the national deputy of Senchenko and others have just spoken about, this bill exclusively wanted to address the issue of the procurement procedure for further export. No more meat, no more milk, nothing to say here, no more to add, for he does not decide. And I want to read to you what the committee members have asked for in the consideration of this bill. This bill is very corrupt because it makes exports effect and purchases in the internal market only through market contracts in accredited markets. So the committee members rejected this bill on the committee, and I support what the House has decided to do, to reject these bills as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u107	Oleg Easy, please, one minute and let's keep working.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u108	Thank you. Dear Gregory Mikolaiovich! Oleg Lazko the author, one of the authors of this bill, who you said was corrupt. You know, Gregory Mikolaiovich, I don't know when you were in the village, except for your cottage, but if you go to the village today and ask the villagers, they'll tell us how they feel about today's state policy. You yourself spoke this morning and said that out of the expenditure that is budgeted for this year to support the agri-industrial complex, 5-10 percent of the funding. Sorry, we've got an October moon on the street. When will you finance these expenses? Alexander Mikolaiovich Tkachenko said, half sown! This is because the time for sowing has already come for September 25! And instead of supporting the state, you're refusing to support the peasants. As deputies, we suggest that such mechanisms be put in place so that the villagers do not depend on the decisions of the governments, regardless of which government or Azarov or Timoshenko. You know what I mean?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u109	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Well, as soon as you did, he said his line on your line. Let's exchange lines, dear fellows, please! Well, please! We agreed to work with you to consider all the issues. Dear colleagues! I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the provision of a secret ballot]] Registration number 2518. An offer is made to consider it as a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:48:16]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Reporters: National Deputy of Ukraine Gorbal Vasil Mikhailovich and co-rapporteur, Head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Upper Sergey Petrovich. Please. Yuri Klukkowski? Yuri Bogdanovich Klukkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u110	I am in a rather questionable role because I am acting in place of my colleague, Uppercut, in the absence of an author who is a violation of the Constitution, and I would like to support his bill. Dear colleagues! The bill of a fellow coat of arms is aimed at solving the current, not the big, but the current problem of electoral law. And the thing is, as technology develops, the famous ballot board is being transformed today, it's taking electronic form. Instead of showing a full ballot or taking a picture, it is suggested that the appropriate penalty is paid, of course, but so far no one has suffered for it. The Gorbal bill is aimed at prohibiting the electorate from staying in a secret ballot box, using a mobile phone, a photo camera, and other special equipment that can be used to take photos or videos. In view of the fact that the bill contributes to increasing the purity of the electoral process and is a measure of opposition to criminal acts, violations of the voter’s secret and bribery, the committee supports the bill and asks the Supreme Council of Ukraine to accept it in its first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u111	Dear colleagues. Thank you. Is there no objection? If there is no objection, we could put this proposal to the vote. Please sign up. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Paul Sulkowski, Vladimir Karpuk, and Oleg Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u112	Thank you. Paul Sulkowski, faction of the Party of the Regions, Ravenshkin. You know, I wanted to speak on this, but the previous speaker said very clearly that this bill, if we vote today, we accept, it will really benefit Ukraine. I support 100 percent, I don't think I'm wasting time, I'm going to take it as a base. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u113	Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u114	Please pass the word to Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u115	Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u116	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. I'm going to share a vision with Vladimir Karpuk about this bill. First, let me ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Why and how long will we continue to allow for a thorough violation of both the Law on the Rules and the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, and the two Constitutions and 1996 and 2004. I am referring to nine coworkers today, including the author of this bill, Mr. Gorbal. And that's why he's not here today and he won't report it. Although the bill he proposed was extremely valid. The only thing there would have to do is change places to write that the voter in a secret ballot box is not allowed to use a mobile phone, a photo camera, a video camera, or another camera that can be followed by a photo or a video camera. This is to prevent a controlled vote from taking place again. Because preparations are now under way for local elections, and at this stage there are many abuses. So in one area, we get information. We just got from Dnipropetrovsk district, Zaporzyk, Odessk. In the Odessa region, there were unprecedented things. They set up the first number, the Party of Regions, the Metropolitan of Agafengel, but immediately they allowed huge deception. What lies? The numbers are given to those who came first. The parties came first, took their place, and they're told, “Sorry, but the first three numbers are already busy. First number." What difference does it make? I'm asking you, Mr. Chechchev, what's the difference between going around cheating and going round and round and round? Let the Party of Regions learn how to enter.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u117	Finish up. Thank you. Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u118	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Oleg Zarubinski, People's Party, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear colleagues, the fact that the issue that raises the subject of the legislative initiative is becoming more and more relevant is the fact. Everyone knows very well that a photograph is used in a cabinet not only in the case or format of bribery but even for some pressure, including administrative pressure. After all, a person should show including those who organized an administrative ballot. So this ban obviously makes sense. I just have a question like this. How to control it. No, I'm sorry, if the police, this has to be right-handed. Who has the right to search -- Valeriy Onanyovich, tell me as a general -- who has the right to search a person for a vote in a camera booth? The second question is, if they found this camera, who's going to take it, take it? Here's the question. You know, we want to settle the right thing, absolutely. But the mechanism is absolutely declarant. This is, to some extent, a declaration. If everyone thinks that I see such a declaratory law, even though I don't think the laws should be declarative, but that this declarative law can somehow be adopted by someone, let's say, scared or obligated. But, in principle, me and my colleague Gorbal, and others, I want to say that legislation is a serious matter. And if we're doing something, we need to do it seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u119	Jaroslav Jojik, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u120	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I absolutely agree with the previous statement that all the proposals in this bill are of an exclusively declarative nature. But they're really fixing the problems that are actually in today's electoral process. Objective realities are that such a dirty election campaign, with such mass preparations for counterfeiting that we have this time, has never been in our country. That's why today, when we consider this bill, we have to ask again the quality of our electoral legislation: to review the issue of the number of members of the Central Electoral Commission, the proportionality of the representation of different political forces in the territorial electoral commissions, which in this case form more than a local electoral commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u121	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u122	In which more than two thirds today represent a dominant coalition. If the authorities want to hold fair elections, they have to demonstrate that proportionality in district and territorial electoral commissions is the law and it has to be ensured.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u123	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u124	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. I am voting on this proposal, namely the adoption as a basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to ensure the secret of voting. Registration number 2518. [[11:57:48]] For 256 Decision taken. Thank you. I bet. I submit a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's laws on the protection of animals against cruel behaviour to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for consideration, honourable colleagues. Registration number 4223. I would like to take this matter up with a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:58:22]] For 215 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine, Matthew Vladimir Josephovich. The focal point is the head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl disaster, Anatoly Ivanovich. Please. Dear colleagues, let's not take a break at 12 o'clock. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, let's work. Well, the request is, well, we agreed with you, we have a 15-hour parliamentary hearing.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u126	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u127	The necessity, the need for the adoption of the Act amending certain existing laws on the protection of animals against cruel behaviour is justified, is justified by the following, in due course, in 2006, the Act on the Protection of Animals against Cruel, Cruel Conduct, which excludes cruelty in article 14 of the Act, which defined issues relating to the licensing of livestock activities related to the use and content of domestic animals. For example, part one of article 14 indicates that licensing is required for the breeding of domestic animals in tribal ponds. However, the Animal Protection Act of Ukraine highlighted the most widespread uncontrolled and unsafe phenomenon for society, such as commercial breeding of pets outside tribal slums in domestic conditions without any consideration of compliance with the rules and regulations. That's why it's necessary. There was a need to regulate the activities relating to the breeding of domestic animals by expanding the licensing of the breeding of domestic animals for any commercial divorce, both in and outside tribal housing. It is therefore proposed to amend article 14 of the Act on the Protection of Animals from Cruel Conduct and article 9 of the Act on the licensing of certain business activities. All of this relates to the pure licensing of the breeding of animals in the household. In commercial.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u128	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u129	All of it!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u130	Do you have everyone? Thank you, sit down, please. Anatoly Ivanovich Seminoga. Who's gonna be on the committee? There is a committee decision to adopt a bill as a basis. Who insists on discussing the matter? Please sign in. Please give me the names of the national deputies on the information board. Vladimir Karpuk, then Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u131	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". There is a proposal to adopt this law as a basis. There are many examples, and many examples of animal cruelty were cited at the walls of the Supreme Council yesterday. There is an offer to accept it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u132	For days, the World Day for the Protection of Animals was marked by cruel behavior. Many public organizations have carried out a campaign in Krestatika for this reason. Sadly, there were only a few national deputies. And unfortunately, it took more, to see how animals in our country are treated under the authority of clearing cities to the Euro, and so on, just being brutally destroyed. I think that many of the people in this room have either a cat or a dog, and we love them even more than our neighbors or close relatives, somewhere. So we do not spread this love to our younger brothers, to the homeless. What do we allow to destroy them in a cruel way? So I propose not only to uphold this law but to take more decisive action. In particular, we have a well-known refuge in the Borodjanka community, where there is a marathon outside, and all these atrocities are actually continuing. And not only in Borodjanec, but also in the press, there were cars in Donbassa, there were running after these animals, and so on. I think we need to be human not only to treat people, but also to treat animals, because they just need our support and protection. And I ask the word that remains to be delivered to Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u133	Oleg Zarubinski, please. I'll give it to you. It's not passed when there are, dear fellows, I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u134	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I've got one minute, I'll be there. Nice words have just been said. I think we're all against animal cruelty, because it's not animals we're protecting, it's humans we're protecting. Because if an animal is destroyed in the eyes of a child or even an adult, I think it's mental stress for a normal person, for a normal person, for sure. But the bill is completely different. This is once again the case of one who discusses what is not in the bill. This is simply about the fact that fertilizers of domestic animals should be licensed in order to prevent people from being able to grow, sell or distribute themselves, and so on, commercially for sale. So I think it's a good bill, but there's different rules and there's a lot of questionable character. I think this bill is worth not supporting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u135	Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u136	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! Two observations. First, we introduce licensing not only for those who breed these animals in tribal fertilizations, but even for those who simply have to satisfy the need for animals to reproduce. So I'd like you to understand, and on second reading, you don't hurt people more than you've done. This is the first time. And the second. I want to protect the animals because they are now walking around the term "cart" and I think "carts" is offensive to animals. And around the world, the Animal Protection Society says that our "carcases" are not at all what animals are. That's why I'm suggesting that we call our "carcases" a little bit different, that, for example, the word that Vladimir Ilchi Lenin said, that might be spoken of. But “carts ” are not used as a word, for it is offensive to animals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u137	Dear colleagues! Question completed. The Committee's conclusion is to adopt a bill as a basis. I'm betting on voting on this proposal, on the adoption of a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the protection of animals from cruel behavior]] [[Registration number 4223]] [[12:06:31]] For-41 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues! It is proposed that you consider the draft law amending articles 42 and 184 of the Ukrainian Labour Code. [[on the protection of children with child support]] The ones they have on the children's backs. Rapporteur – Ukrainian National Deputy Vladimir Danilenko, co-rapporteur – head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Schmelov Svetlana Alexandrovna. There is a request to consider the matter in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[12:07:19]] For-183 Decision taken. Vladimir Andryovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u138	Ladies and gentlemen, your opinion is on the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments and Supplements to Articles 42, 184 of the Ukrainian Code on the Work of Protecting Children. This initiative was prompted by a large number of appeals from various social organizations aimed at protecting children and single parents. The need to adopt this legislation is to protect parents from possible unemployment who raise two or more children who clearly need additional guarantees of employment and a stable wage. Ukraine, as a state, must protect its future, the State must ensure a sufficient level of material needs for families with children, and children are Ukraine's future. The bill is designed to provide citizens with two or more children with additional guarantees regarding the predominant right to stay at work in connection with changes in the organization of production and work, as well as guarantees to prohibit the refusal of admission to work, release and reduction of wages for women with two or more children. The project is proposed to establish that, under equal conditions of productivity and qualifications, the advantage of leaving work on release, of leaving work in connection with the dismissal of workers in connection with changes in the organization of production and work, is given to persons with two or more retainers. There is also a legal ban on refusing employment and reducing wages for women with two or more children. The implementation of this bill does not require financial expenditure from the State budget of Ukraine. The standards of the project allow for the protection of parents who raise two or more children from dismissal and provide additional guarantees to women who have two or more children when they are hired and who receive a stable wage. Therefore, honourable national MPs, I ask you to support this coup.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u139	Svetlana Alexandrovna Schmelov, please make the decision of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u140	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The bill provides for the granting to citizens of two or more children of additional guarantees regarding the predominant right to stay at work in connection with the dismissal of workers in connection with changes in the organization of production and work, as well as guarantees of prohibition, refusal of admission to work, dismissal and reduction of their earnings — women who have two or more children. On April 15, 2009, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Work reviewed the bill and proposed to adopt the bill as a basis. It should be noted that the bill is supported by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance, reports that the implementation of the bill will not affect the income or expenditure of the state and local budgets. The Ukrainian Ministry of Family, Youth, and Sports also supports the bill. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine reports that the proposed bill has been drafted, registered in accordance with articles 90, 92 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. In view of the above, it is suggested that the bill be adopted in the first reading as a basis. Please support the draft decision on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u141	Thank you, dear colleagues, if you need to discuss the matter, please sign up for the discussion. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Sergey Gordienko will then perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u142	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Now there are terrible things happening in the economy of the country that are said to be going up. You've heard today from coalition representatives that grain is extremely bad, the same thing is happening today with employment. And that's why I think that the bill that concerns just the least protected people, the people who are doing a very important social function today, the function of preserving our gene pool, restoring our gene pool, it's about women who are either pregnant or have children under 3 years of age, or two or more children, or single mothers. So I think we have to ask the question here, not only are we forbidden to refuse acceptance, we're going to have to go even further, after amending the Labour Code to introduce increased criminal responsibility, we have, but this criminal responsibility doesn't work, unfortunately. We will have to impose criminal responsibility for such refusal to accept a job. As a result, not only will I support this bill, but I will also amend the Criminal Code to provide additional guarantees to this category of people. And I think we have to do everything we can to restore now and kindergartens, and to restore, all the more so that we've decided to cut school cuts and now we have to re-establish, and this is one of the main tasks that is facing Ukraine and after the local elections. Whatever they're doing, I think some MPs are coming and they're going to work, they're going to have to work for Ukraine, I'm going to adopt the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u143	Yes, Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u144	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! 20 years of so-called reforms, and the actual destruction of our country's economic potential, have been extremely painful for many or virtually all of Ukraine's families. It is very difficult for all to live today for those who gain a piece of bread with hard work. But it is especially difficult to live in these conditions for those families who have two or more children to support them. It is especially difficult to live with people with disabilities, those who today cannot earn this portion of bread because it lacks that pension. They don't take jobs, they don't get jobs, they don't get jobs, they don't get jobs, they don't get jobs, they don't get jobs, they don't get jobs, they don't get jobs, they don't get jobs, they don't get jobs, they don't Therefore, we need to express our sincere thanks to my colleague Danilenko for preparing such a bill that is designed to protect families with child support. 'Cause that's why. Because in Ukraine today, we see this picture extensively when discriminatory measures are taken by employers for women who have two or more children. They don't take jobs or much else. This is a very important bill. And he's just a litmus paper from someone who doesn't vote for this bill, so he's going to show the whole Ukrainian society how they treat families, how they view Ukraine's future, what they declare and what they actually do. I would like to emphasize that the bill in particular does not need a single copy. Rather, it is a constitutional and security nature. And I'm going to Parliament as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u145	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u146	And I'm addressing all the colleagues who are present today to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u147	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u148	Dear colleagues! Why I asked for words. I want to hear my position. I will personally support this bill. But I take it we're going to have voting problems. So I want to remind everyone that this bill is in line with the poverty eradication strategy. Let me remind you. If the poor below the subsistence minimum have income, it is the rural area that lives most of them. Among them are families with children. And so it turns out that a family with children has some additional punishment from society. This problem appears to be solved by the Labour Code, which was adopted in December 1971. It's written-written. So these questions are addressed in the Labour Code, which we cannot possibly bring to the session hall by listening to complaints about people who are incompetent who have not read the Labour Code. And the last. Now, if we had this opposition sitting in our offices listening to my speech, we could use your votes right now. Your position is unconstructive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, the committee is proposing to adopt the bill as a basis. I am voting on the proposal for a committee to adopt as a basis for the draft Act amending articles 42 and 184 of the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine. [[on the protection of children with child support]] [[Registration number 4224]] Please vote. [[12:18:07]] For-84 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. The factions, please. Region Party – 9, Block Timoshenko – 0, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 18, Communists – 27, “Block of Lithuania” – 19, non-fractional – 11. Dear colleagues, I take up the Supreme Council of Ukraine's draft Decision on the first-ever measures to prevent rising prices and tariffs for residential services. [[Registration number 7052]] There is a suggestion to consider this issue in a simplified way. Please vote. [[12:18:59]] For-200 Decision taken. Reporters. Who will be the reporter? Peter Mikolaiovich is, Simonenko, a reporter for this issue. Correspondent: Alexander Mikolaiovich Tkachenko, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! This draft regulation envisages solving the main issue that many are concerned about today, which is primarily about raising housing tariffs. And it is this project that prohibits rising prices and tariffs on residential services, while housing services and natural gas consumption, electricity is paid to the population by the prices and tariffs set by the Cabinet of Ministers until the last increase in prices and tariffs. That's the main point. So the cooperation programme with the International Monetary Fund on the gradual rise in prices and tariffs for residential services has led to a sharp deterioration and so low standard of living for our population. And this external factor has led to the fact that the population today does not accept such policies and requires that we make a different decision. Since August 1st, there has been a 50 percent increase in gas prices for the population, which has led to a sharp rise in municipal tariffs. Since January 1st of next year, it's planned to charge a penny for the untimely payment of residential services. The Company's faction does not for the first time make these proposals so that the state, that is, the government, will primarily take systemic approaches to help the housing system. This primarily affects the improvement of relations with the Russian Federation, i.e. the stabilization of gas prices, and on the other hand these are the internal problems of our state. I think we should take into account, the people's deputies, and the fact that according to the Institute of Technology's specialists, moving from gas to coal will save up to 8 billion cubic meters of gas to 14.1 billion dollars. The use of satellite gases to replace natural gases up to 1 billion cubic meters is 1 billion 760 million dollars. At the same time, the cost of refurbishment will be approximately.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u151	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u152	The replacement of electric water heating by even 50 percent of administrators: schools, hospitals, kindergartens and local authorities, and others will give another 1.5 billion cubic meters of gas, that's 2.6 billion dollars. So you and I need to understand that this is the principle of a policy to protect the interests of our citizens -- it's also a requirement for the government today to have a systematic policy on energy conservation technologies and to provide specific assistance to housing and utilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u153	Thank you. Head of Economic Policy Committee Alexander Mikolayovich Tkachenko Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, of course, we are discussing bitter questions with you today at a session: Bread, energy. And I'm reminded when we were discussing this issue on the committee on August 30th, I'm saying that it was such a good slogan, that with the coming to power of a new generation of people in Ukraine. The rich will share with the poor. Today, the rich do not share with the poor, but the rich want the poor to share with the rich. What to share is the question? With what: a bag? What's the difference: the bread that 117 kilograms instead of 150 people are eating today? I think that Peter Mikolaiovich, preparing this issue for the session, the draft decision, discussing it accordingly in the faction, and I came to the conclusion on the committee that we are perhaps repeating the mistakes of the previous government. What memorandum was signed there by the previous government is history. Let's think of it as today's government signing documents. If today's government raises prices by 50 percent from August 1st, I don't think there was one in any program, those who went to this Parliament were not in any of the programs of today's President and Government. Therefore, it was difficult for the committee to consider the matter. Most of them ignored the vote, but they voted five people out of 19 in favour. What's he talking about? Thus, our society today is likely to respond that this poverty, representing the majority of the population on October 31st, is likely to react as it pleases.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u155	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u156	And I'd like to ask, dear colleagues, let's support the proposal from the conflict, let's support this draft decision and let's make the government think that enough in the state of alternative energy to provide our population, and in some ways, tariffs should be reduced in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u157	Write down: two – “for”, two – “against”. Yes, Gordien, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u158	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Dear colleagues, distinguished radio listeners, of course, that the UK Company at all stages asked the question of what it was necessary to have a balanced salary, and the prices for the most important services and goods of wide use there were adequate. The company initiated and always stood in the interest of the people. Today's situation, the situation, what we're seeing is a total increase in prices for everything and everything. We see housing prices rising, utilities. Under these conditions, the main mass of extremely poor people is not only unable to pay, it cannot survive. What is the solution? Ukraine's company sees and proposes that we introduce a moratorium on rising housing prices. I'd like to say today that if people can't pay what they are today, they'll never pay. And when they have paid, they will not even have a bite of that miserable bread. Next, let's face it, let's face it, this great legend, because it's already a broken myth that everyone gets subsidies. We can see that people went shopping for this bait. But there's mass rejection by the commissions and the bodies that do. To the people in charge of these subsidies. We see that many government documents do not work and do not come into contact because people have a piece of land or a certificate of ownership on their homes, and there is a refusal. So I'm talking to everyone and I'm proposing to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u159	Thank you. Please, "Our Ukraine," Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u160	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". Of course, we need to take systemic measures to increase energy and housing tariffs. At the same time, in an explanatory note to this document, the authors note that the previous government signed a memorandum with the International Monetary Fund on rising energy tariffs for housing and utilities. The previous government signed this memorandum but did not raise these tariffs. The government in question, including the drafters of the bill, who belong to the present parliamentary majority or formed a coalition with the Party of Regions, is going to raise these tariffs without making a commitment to citizens as payment of wages. And these things, really, I agree that the subsidy system and the simplified system, which many talk about, is just a declaration, because in fact these are just things that lead to significant expenditures in the family budget for residential services. I would also like to say that there is another bill -- 7092 of 06.09.2010, by Yuri Karmazin, where there are also a number of concrete measures to raise prices and tariffs for residential services, and we should consider these two bills as alternatives, because there are more specific things, especially regarding the provision of tariff services. So in support of the idea, I want to say that it's better to look at the Karmazin bill, to take it as a basis, to vote, and to solve this very important issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u161	Please, one minute, Baby.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u162	Thank you. It is obvious that tariffs are being raised as a result of government policy. Since the government can't offer anything else, he thinks it's best to solve economic problems in the country at the expense of the needy, by the way, low-income citizens. So I will personally vote for the moratorium on price increases and tariffs. Because we don't think it's necessary to raise prices and tariffs on gas, because there's no need to do that, but we have to pursue this kind of economic policy in the country in order to avoid these shocks. In particular, private skyscrapers are responsible for the gas supply of almost 10 billion dollars. Well, if the government were to kick this money out of private shells, there would be no need to raise gas prices. We extract almost 20 billion cubic metres of domestic gas, and Russian gas has no relation to consumption of Ukrainian gas. Therefore, there is no need to link Russian gas with Ukrainian gas. So there was no reason to raise the price of gas in the government. In addition to the need to cover budget deficits at the expense of citizens, instead of running them.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u163	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u164	instead of running a balanced economic policy. I therefore believe that we should vote for the moratorium today, and continue to adopt laws in the Supreme Council that would allow balanced, dignified economic policies aimed at raising the standard of living of citizens, but not at the expense of those citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u165	Question completed. I'm voting on the draft Resolution on the first-line measures to prevent price increases and tariffs for residential services, registration number 7052, the author of bill Simonenko, please vote. [[12:31:32]] For-50 The factions. Region Party - 0, Timoshenko-Paternity Block - 1, Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense - 20, Communists - 27, Block of Lithuania - 0, non-fractional - 3. The draft decision was rejected, unfortunately. A draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine is under consideration. [[concerning the deprivation of parental rights]] Bill number 3384, reports both from the committee and from the authors Beviz Valeriy Ananiyovich. There is a motion for a reduced procedure, please vote. [[12:32:25]] For 190 Decision taken. Please, Valery Ananiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u166	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! I want to report that on October 1, 2008, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed the law on responsibility for the use of a child for begging. The President vetoed this law, and the essence of the President's remarks was precisely critical of the introduction of a new type of criminal punishment, such as the removal of parental rights. In view of the fact that, in order to pass the law on the responsibility of using children for beggaring, the session hall went to meet the President and approved him definitively, without further punishment, I emphasize. After that, the Swedish National MP, as the author of the bill, passed a new separate law on the definition of basic criminal punishment in the form of the deprivation of parental rights. Unfortunately, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council is recommending that the bill be rejected as a result of the first reading. But the Legislature Committee supported the bill and recommended that it be considered by the Supreme Council. Let's take a look.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u167	Thank you. Is there a desire to share in the discussion? Yes. Besides Carmazin, who else wants it? None. Then, please, Karmazin, two minutes and we'll be clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u168	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that such punishment was once in the history of Ukraine, which was in the Criminal Code of 1960, articles 23 and 38. But then we thought it was necessary to remove this measure of punishment and see what it would do. I want to say that now I see that these changes that are being proposed, including when it comes to introducing a new punishment, just like we need to go back to another kind of punishment, this is before the land is confiscated. Because now there's land, we're talking about confiscation of personal property, there might be a lot of latifunds of land, but we're not talking about that kind of punishment for something, I'm talking about for experts from the committee and experts from the Miniuste. Therefore, I believe that the addition in the Criminal Code of article 55, which provides for the deprivation of parental rights, which may be applied as an additional penalty in the event of a person being convicted of committing a deliberate, serious or particularly serious crime against his or her child. [[Prime]] So we specify and say, if he committed a serious or particularly serious crime with regard to this child, then he has to be deprived of his parental rights. And this is a perfectly correct proposal, and I agree that the committee has made this decision. And the committee also proposes in the Criminal Procedure Code to supplement it with article 270 with the two “Participation of Custody and Custody Organs” in the judicial review of these issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u169	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u170	Thank you. And also before the amendment to the Ukrainian Family Code, otherwise the law would not be complete. The law also provides for changes to the Ukrainian Criminal Enforcement Code. That's why I would ask, it's not a political law, it's a law to protect the children of the unfortunate who have committed a crime. I'd like to support this bill. And thank you to the author of Sweden, representatives of the committee and committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u171	Finished, question discussed, completed. I would like to vote on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine, Bill 3384. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:37:21]] Z-11. The decision is not supported. The bill was rejected. We are considering draft laws amending the Code of Administrative Offences to renew the operation of general confidence for drivers of transport. Bills number 3448 and 3648-1. The authors of the bill of Collegiate Kravchenko and Seminoga, by the Beaz Committee. All suggestions for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[12:38:06]] For the 220. Decision taken. Please, Valery Ananiyovich and how one of the authors and committee then prepare for Seminosi. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u172	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Law Enforcement Law, prepared for consideration in the first reading by the Ukrainian National Deputy Kravchen, draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Administrative Offences on Restoration of General Confidentiality for Drivers of Transport Means and submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine to the Seminomal Draft Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws (for documents confirming the right to drive vehicles (Registration No. 3648 with sign 1). [[Registration number 3648]] Draft Law 3648 proposes to amend article 126 of the Code of Administrative Offences on the Renewal of Trust to the Right of Control of Transport. Bill submitted in exchange for the same project as 24.01.2009 After reviewing the bill, the committee notes that Ukrainian legislation does not contain the concept of general confidence. You can only talk about trust, so the word “general” needs to be removed from the text of the bill. Since the amount of authority vested in a person may vary significantly in each individual case, it is not appropriate to provide for this in the text of the article. It will be enough to predict the existence of confidence that confirms the legality of possession and use of a vehicle by a person who is not included in the registration documents. The requirement to have a temporary ticket for the administration of the transport vehicle was provided for in sub-paragraph “b”, paragraph 2.1. of the Road Traffic Rules, which were approved by Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine No. 1306 of 10 October 2001. Cabinet decree 124 of February 11, 2009, that is, nine years later, this subpoint was amended. Thus, the need to make the changes provided for in this bill is being eliminated altogether. Now for Bill 3648 with badge one. The bill proposes to amend article 126 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences and article 16 of the Ukrainian Road Traffic Act in order to protect the rights of drivers of means of transport that guide them in confidence. After reviewing the bill, the committee notes that the Cabinet Order, which I mentioned earlier, since October 10, 2001 number 1306, provides for the right to control trust. Paragraph “a”, paragraph 2.12, states that the owner of the vehicle has the right to trust in a specified order of use and control of the means of transport of another person. In paragraph “b” of Subparagraph 2.14 the driver has the right to trust in the established private transport management system of another person carrying a licence to operate the transport vehicle of the relevant category. The Civil Code of Ukraine also establishes the right to administer the means of transport. Hence, drivers of vehicles that control them on the basis of confidentiality have every legitimate basis for doing so. The creation of additional bureaucratic obstacles to the management of trusted drivers violates their rights. In view of the above, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of Bill 3648-1 in the first reading on the basis and to reject Bill 3648. By the way, I'd like to report that the author of the National MP Kravchenko has accepted this position. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council believes that both bills must be rejected because these issues are regulated by the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u173	Thank you. Please, Anatoly Ivanovich Seminoga, Bill 3648-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u174	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished fellow national MPs, the purpose of the bill is to take steps to protect the rights of drivers of transport vehicles. I would like to say that the bill appeared in connection with the adoption of the Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on improving the regulation of road traffic relations as of 24 September 2008 which has led to the complexity of the relationship between drivers and coworkers of the State Automobile Inspection. The cause of these complications, and so, the growing dissatisfaction of drivers has been the creation of additional bureaucratic barriers to driver’s right to drive a vehicle that is required by DAI’s employees to present, not an assignment certified by a notary, but a temporary gift registered in the DAI administration. At the same time, DAI employees refer to article 125 of the Code of Administrative Offences. The Civil Code establishes the right to drive the vehicle. Yes, article 1000 of this Code provides that, under a contract of service, one party undertakes to act on behalf of and on behalf of the other party, certain legal acts, as well as that the contract of assignment may establish the exclusive right of trustee to act on behalf of and at the expense of trusted all or part of the legal acts. Hence, the drivers of the vehicles that guide them on the basis of their commission have every legal basis for doing so. The creation of additional bureaucratic obstacles to the management of confidential drivers violates citizens' rights as defined in the Ukrainian Civil Code. I'm asking the MPs to support Bill 3648/1 and I want to point out that the committee is a committee of profile.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u175	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u176	The Special Committee also supports the bill. Thank you for your attention. I'm asking you to back me up again.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u177	Thank you. Please, shall we vote or speak? So who but Carmazin wants to do it? Yes, then, please, Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin. And we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u178	Yury Karmazin Party of Motherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! I'd like to contact the members of the profile committee. The point is that what you are told today is that the government’s decisions, which are secondary in nature, are to prevail over the laws. But that's what's happening. The point is, the Road Traffic Rules establish the responsibility of citizens. According to the Constitution, the responsibility of citizens can only be established by law. That's why we suggested that we introduce a Code of Road Traffic Law, where we can predict all of this. Because it's completely unconstitutional to establish this responsibility by way of a Cabinet order. That's why I fully support the decision of the committee with which Beviz spoke, it's completely literate, legally balanced, and I don't think that any temporary gift, I'm telling the citizens of Ukraine, is necessary. Moreover, if we are going to Europe, I want you to know that there is no trust in other countries of Europe at all. It's just a property card or a property license with keys, and if you faked it or stole it, you're responsible, but if you're stopped by the police, you've shown it and your testimony that you have a driving license or a license, or a license, as we call it. And no more bureaucratic documents are needed. As for the fact that the committee correctly gave an evaluation of Law 3648, I'm just confirming professionalism, which, in fact, is the right thing to do. And I think that this law is such that there is no contradiction and I want to thank my colleague Seminoza and the committee, and I think that if we adopt it in the first reading, we can accept it in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u179	Thank you. Question completed. I am voting on the proposal to adopt as a basis in the first reading of Bill 3648 amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences to renew the operation of general confidence for drivers of transport vehicles. The author of the Kravchenko Bill. Please vote. [[12:47:52]] For the Not supported. It's on the vote, it's on the vote, it's on the bill 3648-1. [[Bill rejected]] The author of Seminoga. Please be sure. [[12:48:19.]] For-12. Not supported. Bills are rejected. Dear colleagues, we did our duty yesterday. Let's move on to the order of the day defined for Wednesday. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on transparency of decision-making and financial reporting by political parties]] Bill number 5501. By Shevchenko Andry Vitaliyovich and by the Klukkowski Committee. There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[12:49:11]] For-189 Supported. Please, Andrew Vitaliovich. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u180	Since we have finally come to the issues that were to be addressed today, I will take this opportunity to draw attention once again that the faction of the "Julia Timoshenko Block" has left behind for a simple reason – protesting against breaking the rules. Because the next day, after Paris had been told that more respect for the rights of opposition was needed, these rights were violated in this room today. In fact, it's the law. I am introducing a bill that was drafted by a group of civil activists and registered at the signature of seven Ukrainian national deputies. That's the point. You know, in particular, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe yesterday pointed out that Ukraine should take steps to reduce the commercial dependence of the parties. That's what our bill is all about. We know very well that the main reason for the great mistrust of the political parties that work in Ukraine is simple. At the party, our parties with you are very often viewed as closed stock companies, which are not known how they involve financing and from which they are not known how prizes, gains, and successes are distributed and victories are distributed. So this bill is the first attempt to build some tools that will make the parties more accountable and transparent to society. That's what I'm talking In particular, each party will be obliged to have an official site on which information about key arrivals will be displayed. It will be necessary to publish, publish data on who is contributing to the electoral campaign of the parties and so forth. The task is simple. We need to move towards such a coordinate system when every citizen feels more personally responsible for the fact that in the country and each party will feel more responsible for the matter he is involved in in politics. We talked to a committee reporter, Mr. Klukkowski, about this bill. I know a huge number of critical remarks. And I'm in the mood. Anyway, let's look at this bill as a first step towards making our political work more transparent and the work of Ukrainian parties also more transparent and accountable to society.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u181	Thank you. Please, from the committee. Deputy Head of the Committee on State and Local Self-Government Yuri Bogdanovic Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u182	Thank you. In the absence of time, I will avoid procedural formalities, and I will immediately say that the committee is proposing that the bill be returned to the drafters of the bill. These are the reasons. Indeed, the bill violates important and interesting problems, and their legislative arrangements are indeed needed. Yet this bill is a fine illustration of the fact that the road to hell is paved with good intentions. To illustrate this, I'll give you some positions that are based on the bill's position, for example the process of forming a political party. The creation of an organ committee, which, while not uniting citizens, nevertheless opens up an account in a bank without civil and legal capacity. How a structure that has no legal status should open an account in a bank is unknown. The local centers of the party are formed before it is formed by this very organ committee. The question arises, “When is the decision to form parties made? ” A very interesting position that I found strange to read in the opposition bill. It turns out that a party can only be convened if a representative of the Ministry of Justice is present. If you have convened a convention, delegates have arrived, but the Justice Ministry has not come to this meeting, or you can no longer hold anything, or this meeting will be simply invalid. The same applies to the process of changing the direction of a party or the direction of local party organizations. You have 10 days to warn the body of justice that you want to do this. And if a representative of justice doesn't come to such a conference, you can't change the leader. I think it's a special, anecdotic thesis. The Ministry of Justice is authorized to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u183	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u184	The Ministry of Justice is empowered to financial control of the party's activities. This function is totally unnatural for the Ministry of Justice. Well, I'm not going to talk anymore about the bill predicting that if the party didn't open an official website that went through the state registration, then the party doesn't have the right to participate in any of the elections. [[I don't know what state registration websites are.]] Well, again, I think it really fits into some of the realities of Ukraine today. And finally. Not to be published on the party site for two days of information about the coming of more than three minimum wages, it's the order of 3,000 dollars, it's a warning, and it's a re-release of the party. Well, if we want to go to Europe, if we want to stick to democracy, at least we'll get to know the European standards, where the party's dissolution is allowed only in extreme cases, and financial distortions provide for ownership. So it all looks like it's the way they wanted it, and it's the way it's always been. It seems to me that a return to the drafters of the bill will be useful and useful to them too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u185	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss? There are, write down, two – “for”, two – “against”. Yes, please, Kirilenko Viacheslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u186	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party “For Ukraine! ” Dear colleagues, of course, party life must be democratized and improved to make it more understandable to ordinary people. But I do have a question about the continued existence of all these parties as such. Now it's like we have a party system, mixed choices and all that. But there's manipulations, both with parties, and around the parties. See, at first, not everyone was allowed to go to local elections as such. They said they were black and they were white. White people can go, black people have to be banned. For example, three months later, the “For Ukraine! ” party was thought to run or not. Then someone there told Moscow or Brussels that it was not democratic. They let everyone go. Now the election campaign, the manipulation around the parties in full motion. I may not be a proponent of any political power, but when they are brought into line with the power of the Clown of Wat, it is already a source of concern even in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. As long as we decide whether or not the parties are funded, they start to be used for the benefit of power, even without the knowledge of these parties. Thirdly, everyone knows in the local elections the current campaign, when we have one party in all areas, regions, cities, towns, villages under number one, is the Party of Regions. She's not number one in the election, she's number one in the newsletter. The funny thing is, when the police bring the representatives of the Party of Regions to the committee and they're registered there in the number one bulletin. So it's: it's going to run the result below the number in the ballot box. If we're the first ones in the polls, then we should be the first ones in the election. And if we don't have enough votes, we'll figure it out. So it seems to me that all the parties that understand what democracy is, they should unite here, around this threat that is on the way to Ukraine. And the party “For Ukraine!” feels this administrative pressure on its skin. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u187	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u188	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Therefore, in view of all these circumstances, I would ask them to consider them in voting for the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u189	Thank you. Please, Demcishen, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u190	Thank you. Basil Demchischen, faction of the Party of the Regions. In his statement by the Committee of Jury Bogdanovsky, Klukkowski highlighted some of the issues of the bill in detail. And I want to support him in that. In addition, point out that the bill provides for the obligation of members of the political party’s superiors and members of their families to report on their income each year. And there must be a number of changes to other laws. But this bill does not provide and cannot be understood what extension of legal capacity can give Ukrainian citizens the information they are talking about in the bill. Instead, there are legitimate fears that informing an unbounded circle of citizens about the personal data of members of senior statutory political parties in Ukraine, and by doing so by the third party members of their families, will create favourable conditions for the pursuit of the interests of the opposite parties, the individuals concerned and the commission of certain offences against them. There are also many comments on this bill that contain positions aimed at settling issues related to the financing of political parties. And we also need to settle many, many of these issues. So I think this bill needs to be sent by the author for further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u191	Thank you. Please, Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u192	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Oleg Zarubinski, People’s Party Dear colleagues, we have recently had a Friday talk, and the chairman will read out any or all other parliamentary questions. An interesting fashion has emerged when the names of these requests are self - sufficient, that is, that no one is interested in the request, and there may be two paragraphs of the chalice, but the name is very beautiful, because it is heard, perceived as a person’s standing up for something and so on. I think the title of this bill is just great, it's great, it's great, but we have to look at the meaning. Yuri Bogdanovich, you didn't say everything. There are so many unwarranted, prohibitive rules for the existence of a party. So I have a question: what is the purpose of the bill? Or to make the name ring? I realize I'm not going to vote for this bill, I realize that the journalist's pool is certain to say that we're against transparency, report and so on. Maybe that's what it's done for, honestly? Well, let him do it, but we're legislators and we have to write the law according to those rules and, well, at least the legal technique that exists today is the first. And the second moment, my dear colleagues, this was about political parties, I don't think that's the way to go. This may not be a popular thing to say right now, but the political parties that exist in Ukraine need to be re-registered, because the political party is not a taboo and a seal in the hands of its head. The political party is an existing organization, an active organization, an effective organization, not a pool of parties on a horse called the election campaign. The topic is very important, the idea is, in principle, normal, but we have to deal with the legislation, not the pianist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u193	Thank you. Yes, we will. As we can see, thoughts are unanimous, and they may be supported by one of the authors. Please, Chevchenk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u194	My colleagues, I'm finally going to say that I agree with the absolute majority of the comments made. Thank you, colleagues of Zarubinski, for the very right things. I just want to say on behalf of the entire group of authors that the motive that he was guiding us is the fight against political corruption. I'm not going to take the liberty of telling the entire group of authors that we agree to the initiative for further work, but I personally agree with the initiative of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u195	Thank you. So, perhaps if you don't deny it, so that I don't vote twice, I will put to the vote a proposal for a profile committee with which all the speakers, including the drafters of the bill, agree that by supporting the idea, I will return to the authors of the bill Bill number 5501, a draft law amending some of the laws of Ukraine to ensure transparency of decision-making and financial reporting by political parties for work. Please be supportive. [[13:03:05]] For the 17th. The decision is not taken. Then I'm making another proposal, and I'm making an even better proposal: I'm voting for adoption as a basis for the first reading of Bill No. 5501 amending some of Ukraine's laws to ensure transparency in decision-making and transparency in decision-making and financial reporting by political parties. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:03:44]] For the 10th. The decision is not supported, the bill is rejected. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster is under consideration. [[on the social protection of students]] Registration number 4821. Project Seminogie. There is a proposal to consider the project with a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:04:27]] For-189 Decision taken. Please, Anatoly Ivanovich, he's both the author and the committee, you have four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u196	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! For your consideration, a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster is proposed. [[on the social protection of students]] The bill provides for the right of a student up to 23 years of age from all children affected by the Chernobyl disaster, in accordance with article 27 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, not only those who had grounds for receiving the fourth category, as provided for by the valid law, to receive a dormitory if they do not have a residence, but also to pay for a higher scholarship in the order and size established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, irrespective of the place of education in Ukraine. Today, there is a certain imbalance in the fact that the higher categories of victims do not benefit from the aid provided for the fourth category. There are cases where students in the higher category of one university suffer, one group loses the right to a specified benefit after 18 years, and those in the fourth category do not lose that benefit until the age of 23. I would like to point out that this applies to people who are already students. The adoption of the bill will allow students who were underage in all categories to have the right to a guaranteed state grant by 23 years of age if they do not have housing and also to pay for a higher scholarship. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports the legislative initiative aimed at strengthening the social protection of children affected by the Chernobyl AES. In conclusion, the first reading of the bill may be based on observations. The Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster recommends that the Supreme Council adopt a bill. [[Registration number 4821]] I'm also asking you to support this bill. For the record, the total number of students and students who receive an elevated scholarship is 11,000. The annual cost requirement is 19 million dollars. I appeal to all MPs to support this bill, which will allow us to protect our students who have suffered as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u197	Please sign up, your honors, to discuss the matter. Two - "for", two - "against". May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Paul Sulkowski, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u198	Thank you. Paul Sulkowski, faction of the Party of the Regions. Equality. I'd like to ask the reporter a question, but since there's a reduced procedure, I think Anatoly Ivanovich, you're going to listen to my suggestions and we don't have to solve the problem for the students and so on. Anatoly Ivanovich! You know very well that children who are born and are now 18 years old, they're 18 years old, they're using a yellow card, some kind of pitiful benefits. And when they're 18, and they're still living in the third, second, fourth category, they're practically losing it, it's a yellow card, and they're not changing it to green. So they're losing any benefits, even though they're still living in this category. So I think this is where the government needs to take this problem seriously. To find out, to make an inventory of Ukraine, especially my country where I was born, my entire family lives, and extremely many families are born there. But these poor children are born in the polluted territory of the second, third, and fourth categories. But they have absolutely no benefits since they were 18 years old. So I think that the government is bound here to take personal control and finally figure it out and to determine justice. There is no such thing anywhere and there can be no such thing in our Ukraine. So I think that this bill is partly what we are doing if we vote, it only partially solves the issue, it doesn't solve the global issue in the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u199	Dear colleagues, I remind you of the committee's conclusion, is to adopt the bill as a basis. I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster on the Social Protection of Students. [[Registration number 4821]] Please vote. [[13:10:34]] For-47 The decision is not taken. So the bill is rejected. Dear colleagues, I propose to you the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Restoration of the Payment of the Debtor or Recognition of Its Bankruptcy. [[on the cessation of bankruptcy]] [[Registration number 3528]] There is a request and a suggestion to consider the matter in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[13:11:14]] For-189 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine, Sergey Mishchenko. And the co-rapporteur is the head of the Economic Policy Committee, Bondar Alexander Mikolayovich. Is there a Bondar? Will any of you speak from the committee? Is there a reporter? [[B in m in s a l in]] The committee considered and decided to recommend a basis. Who insists on the discussion? I'm voting on a proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft law. [[Registration number 3528]] Please vote. [[13:12:11]] For 223 The decision is not taken. I am voting on a motion to return to the draft law on return to the draft law. [[Registration number 3528]] [[13:12:36]] For 243 We're back on the subject. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Recovery or Recognition of the Debtor's Payment. [[on the cessation of bankruptcy]] Please vote. [[13:13:10]] For 244 Decision taken. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on the increase of responsibility for failure to execute a court decision]] [[Registration number 5307]] There is a suggestion to deal with this issue in a simplified way. Please vote. [[13:13:44]] For 199 Decision taken. Rapporteurs of the National Deputy of Ukraine Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin and the Secretary of the Committee for Legislative Security and Law Protection, Behalez Valeriy Ananiyovich. Yuri Anatolyevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u200	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland’s Defenders Dear National Deputies! The project proposes to regulate legislatively the issue of invocation of responsibility for failure to implement decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, as provided for in the current Ukrainian Law on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, which was adopted on 16 October 1996. I mean, failing to comply with the decisions of the decent judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, it is said that criminal law guarantees for the execution of judicial acts are enshrined in the Criminal Code of Ukraine. Article 382 of the Criminal Code lays down criminal responsibility for a deliberate failure by a serviceman to execute a sentence, a decision, an approval, a court order that has gained legal power, or an obstacle to their execution. Although article 382 of the Criminal Code refers to all existing courts in Ukraine that are part of the Ukrainian judicial system, namely the Constitutional Court, and the courts of general jurisdiction, the existing structure of the disposition of article 382 of the Criminal Code is insufficiently complete and precise, as a result of which its position, unlike the acts of the courts of general jurisdiction, is essentially nominal in the part of ensuring the execution of decisions by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine by officials who occupy a responsible or particularly responsible position. Ladies and gentlemen, you've given me very little time, two minutes, so I won't say a word about that huge research that I had to do to write this law with a group of authors. Because the law has not been introduced by political deputies other than Carmazin Moysik, Gretzak, Zarubinski, Bondik, Stishenko, Dove, Shemczuk, Player. I would like to say that we have analyzed how many unfulfilled decisions the Constitutional Court has made, and we have seen that even after the nine decisions that were taken in 2009, no changes have been made regarding the elimination of invalid standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u201	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u202	I'm done, thank you. So, honourable national MPs, I would like to draw your attention to the problem of failure to comply with the decisions of constitutional judges, and from year to year of failure to do just brutal non-execution. As a result, I have proposed the following changes: the addition of article 351 to article 382 to the second edition, where the “Constitutional Court of Ukraine” should be added. Thank you. And what I'm trying to say is that I'm still asking the question that failure to comply with decisions and the European Court of Human Rights and not to ensure that this decision is implemented or enforced should also be punished in accordance with the Criminal Code. Please support and understand that the court must be respected, especially on the eve of Jurist Day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u203	Thank you. Valerius Ananiyovich Bebelz, secretary of the Committee on Legal Protection. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u204	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I want to confirm what the drafter has just said. The project proposes to complement the current Criminal Code of Ukraine with a new article 351 with one: “Disruptment of the activities of the judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine” and to present article 382 of the Criminal Code in a new edition. After reviewing the bill, the committee notes that the current legislation of Ukraine provides for a mechanism to implement the decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. In particular, according to the Basic Law of Ukraine, the decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine are final and cannot be accused. The implementation of such decisions is then a constitutional obligation for every citizen. In addition, the Committee believes that the solution to the problem of the enforcement of court decisions is primarily to improve the procedure for the enforcement of such decisions, which is regulated by the relevant procedural legislation. Furthermore, the addition of the Criminal Code to article 351 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, bearing the symbol “Prohibition of the activities of judges of the Constitutional Court” is irrelevant, since the current Criminal Code already contains a norm that provides for criminal responsibility for the actions not only for judges of the courts of general jurisdiction but also, in particular, the judges of the Constitutional Court. This is part of article 376 of the Criminal Code. In fact, the project’s proposal is to introduce another special offence into criminal law for lack of urgency. Moreover, the sanction of article 376 of the Criminal Code provides for more severe penalties for doing so than proposed in the bill, and the sanction proposed by draft article 351 with a single badge does not provide for punishment in the form of deprivation of liberty.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u205	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u206	A few seconds. The bill therefore essentially proposes to reduce criminal responsibility for obstructing the activities of judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, which is contrary to the title of the bill and is of no use. As a result, the committee recommends that the Supreme Council reject the bill. That is also the view of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u207	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss the bill? Who insists on discussing the bill? Please sign up. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u208	Dear colleagues, I'll explain why I asked for words and why I pressed the red button. I am very sorry that the sanction of article 351, “Infringement of the activities of the judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine”, which was valid in the Criminal Code of the author, which, at present, is sitting in the session hall, colleague Carmazin. Why this article and the sanctions of this article were not applied in 2007, when today’s opposition, the then coalition, cynically blocked the work of the Constitutional Court. Do you remember that shame and shame when the judges of the Constitutional Court were unable to reach their place of work? What's going on now. We're either a European state or we're some kind of savage. And there is a decision of the Constitutional Court. There were a lot of commentators here. It's the third independent branch of power, Mr. Lawyer, and it needs to be done, or we're throwing out the vacchanal to Ukraine. It can't be like that. I know that this bill may not be acceptable because it seems that article 351-1 exists in such a way as to avoid obstructing the activities of the Constitutional Court. But I am addressing the Ukrainian national MPs, you represent the branch of the legislature. And by giving an evaluation today, by commenting on the Constitutional Court's decision, you're disrespecting this very branch of power, you're disrespecting yourself, you're demonstrating a low level of political and public culture. You know, when someone gets uncomfortable, they start talking about court, Kyrgyzstan, and they leveled their finger against their finger. What does Kyrgyzstan have to do with the events that were before what is happening now? Putting pressure on a court means demonstrating our willingness to act corruptly and to engage in unprofessional activities. So it's certainly this bill that's just a reason for us to take another look at ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u209	Yes, Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u210	Dear National Deputies, George Carmazin. I am very sorry that political ambitions, political ambitions, sometimes go beyond common sense. I would like you to know that Ukraine's enforcement of the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights has reached a dangerous level. If one European Court of Human Rights ruling against Ukraine was handed down in 2002, in 2003 - 6, 2004 - 13, 2005 - 120, 2006 - 114, 2007 - 72, 2008 it has already paid, Ukraine, 5 million dollars of compensation. This is the first time. Secondly, honourable national MPs, and why do we not want to implement the Constitutional Court's decision to enable the realization of the right to receive a decent pension for most citizens? Why? There are such decisions of the court. You're not going to do them. It's not your President Janukovic, it's not Azarov. You don't want to pay anyone. So let us do so that the law may be one for all.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u211	Dear colleagues! With regard to the issue that we have concluded, the committee has reached the conclusion to reject this bill, to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At the same time, in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a bill on the basis of the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine to increase criminal liability for failure to execute a court decision. Registration number 5307. [[13:24:45.]] For-40 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues! I propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for consideration a draft regulation on the application for membership in the European Union. Registration number 6119. There is a suggestion to consider this issue in a simplified way. There's an offer. The Supreme Council does not vote - we will not consider the summary procedure. [[13:25:23]] For 213 Unfortunately, the decision has been made. Please, Mikolo Dmitrovich. The rapporteur is Ukraine's national deputy, Catherinechuk Mikola Dmitrović. The Coroner is the Head of the Committee on Questions, a.k.a. the Deputy Head of the Committee, Stephen Kurpil. Please be prepared.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u212	Dear voters! Dear National Deputies! It is unfortunate that such a decision is being discussed, the political decision of Parliament in an empty room is in fact. I understand what the mood is going to be. But I would like this vote to take down the masks of all those who use, let's say, the rhetoric of European integration and say that we have a priority towards integration into European structures. On February 25, the European Parliament recognized Ukraine’s right to apply for membership in the European Union. The resolution states that under the EU Treaty, Ukraine can apply for membership in the European Union. The European Party of Ukraine is convinced that such an unprecedented decision by Ukraine does not have the right not to take advantage of it. For Ukraine, European integration is a way of modernising the economy, first of all; overcoming technological underdevelopment; involving foreign investment, new technologies; creating new jobs; improving the competitiveness of the domestic producer; entering the world markets for which we are fighting you, first of all, the EU market, well, and carrying out democratic reforms in the same way. Today, the European Union holds leading positions in the world, accounting for 42 percent of the world’s merchandise exports, 40 percent of imports, 42 percent of imports of services. It is clear to Ukraine that there are no alternatives to cooperation with the EU. We are at the threshold of the almost signed Free Trade Agreement, and some consultations, negotiations, are about to be concluded. And our vote for this ruling, I think, would reinforce the arguments for the Ukrainian side first of all. In this regard, on March 1, 2010, I registered a corresponding Bill 6119 in the Supreme Council, based on the fact that under article 85, paragraph 5, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the foundation of Ukraine’s internal and external policies is part of the mandate of Parliament. [[you want old, new]] The committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u213	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u214	The European Integration Committee, as well as foreign affairs, recommended that Parliament adopt a Regulation on EU membership. I would like our vote to confirm this today because things are more important than words. A request to support this decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u215	Thank you. Stepan Krupil, deputy head of the European Integration Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u216	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, the Committee on European Integration reviewed the draft decision at its meeting and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the decision be taken on the basis and in general. It should be noted that the draft decree does not provide for an immediate association of membership applications. It is about obliging the President of Ukraine to organize an external political leadership in such a way that the application can be submitted as soon as possible by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine and the European Union. In addition, it is proposed that the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine should be asked to make proposals for the recognition of urgent bills necessary to accelerate the negotiation process by creating a deeper and inclusive area of free trade between Ukraine and the European Union, as well as the conclusion of an Association Agreement between Ukraine and the EU. Our committee agrees with the position of the drafter of the bill that the adoption of the decision will be the response of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the resolution of the European Parliament on the situation in Ukraine adopted on 25 February this year, which recognises the right of Ukraine as a European State to apply for EU membership under article 45 of the Treaty on European Union. In the opinion of the Committee, the adoption of a decision will confirm the priority of the European integration policy of Ukraine and will contribute to the legislative provision of negotiation processes for the conclusion of an Association and Free Trade Area Agreement between Ukraine and the EU. In conclusion, I would like to add that at the address of the Supreme Council of Ukraine there are appeals from local councils in which.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u217	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u218	In these statements, the Ukrainian Parliament is asked to approve the decree as soon as possible. In particular, representatives of the Lviv District Council, the Ivano-Frankivsky District Council, the Ternopil District Councils and the Ivano-Frankiv Districts made similar calls. I ask the Supreme Council to support the position of the Committee on European Integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u219	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, if you are willing to participate in this discussion, please sign up. Names of the national MPs, please. Kirilenko Viacheslav, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Next is Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u220	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party “For Ukraine! ” I support this, absolutely right, initiative of Nicholas Catherinechuck. It would take a long time for our country not only to talk about European integration but to become a member of the European Union, and we would have forgotten about it, developed and moved. Sadly, this did not happen in the past. I think there's even less chance of being in power now, because the European Union is standards, it's a job for voters, and it's a transparent policy that we haven't had and unfortunately we don't. Well, of course, Parliament should now at least support the idea of renewing an active debate on this subject and coming up with a concrete solution: applying to the European Union, although perhaps there are substantial warnings from that point of view, would be a good thing. But the European Union is the whole European community, except that it's a structure. This Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has already expressed itself by a majority of votes yesterday, and it has said that we do not have freedom of the media, at least there are disturbing trends, there is no freedom from services for public activists and there is no possibility of falsification in the local elections. So the question is, will this request be considered seriously in the European Union, or should we first correct what the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is already telling us? And it says directly: it calls on the authorities to take all necessary measures to protect media freedom and pluralism, and to refrain from trying to control the media directly or indirectly. So let's go back to our circles: what was at Kuchma is only coming back in worse form. When they try to manipulate freedom of speech under the carpet, the freedom of meeting is complete, for go protest against Yanukovich and other things. So I think that Parliament should hear both these things and remove them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u221	Mikhailo Chechetov. Vadim Koleschenko, faction of the Party of Regions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u222	Respectable voters, respected colleagues, indeed, the document that we are considering, which is stunning and fateful for our State and is of great importance. And we see that those who offer it, the sector of the hall, don't have these people at all. They do not see Ukraine at all in Europe; they do not wish to choose Europe for our State. [[B in m in s a l in]] This is called double morality, demagogism, falsification and subversiveness. Of course, colleagues have spoken to us and talked about the recommendations that the Parliamentary Assembly, the Council of Europe and they are very demonstratively showing us the tears of crocodiles that we are not doing anything. Literally a few days ago, the same representatives said that if anyone thought about adopting the Language Act in this Parliament, the Parliament would be mined to see Ukraine blown up. I recall that the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe indicated two months ago in its report that there was a systemic and mass violation of human rights based on language, a full list of indications that we were obliged to do. The Committee of Experts of the Council of Europe expressed its surprise at the fact that the Russian language, which has a large number of carriers, which is not only native to Ukrainians, was reported to have a much higher degree of protection. That is why we see systemic and grave human rights violations today and, of course, we will not be expected in Europe until we correct our main mistakes, we will not fulfil our obligations under the Charter of Regional Languages, we will not comply with our obligation under the Charter of Local Self-Government. And here the views of certain regional councils were invoked, so the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe indicated that they took into account that the mass regional city councils of the south-east, the centre of Ukraine, had applied to the European Parliament for a violation of human rights on a linguistic basis, deciding that the Russian language was a regional one. That's why either we talk and do, or double standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u223	Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u224	Oleg Zarubinski, People’s Party I'm going to talk not about what you're saying with a lie, but about the contents of this bill, because again, it feels like not everyone's read it. And here's two specific things. Here, first of all, is the commitment of the President of Ukraine to direct foreign political activity, I emphasize, to commit. Second, the Head of the Supreme Council should make proposals for an urgent bill to speed up the negotiation process by creating a deeper and inclusive area of free trade. What I'm saying. Now, first of all, you understand very well, if you think of any bill, not as a pyar action for the pyar of your political power or its name, but if you think of it as legislation, then it's a matter that lawyers of freshman year-olds are asking: is there a commitment on the part of the Supreme Council of the President to engage in foreign political activities? There's nothing to comment on. Clearly, the quality of this is evident. But the second point is, when it comes to Ukraine's efforts to deepen and accelerate the signing of the Free Trade Zone. And you know, Your Honor, what's the problem with not signing now? Not on the Ukrainian side, I'll call you. This is, first of all, all kinds of messes, including the spread and the second hand of Ukraine, and it has to enter without a moment's notice -- once. Second, no animal production, dairy, meat, can simply reach the European Union. Do you not agree that this is the case? Another agricultural product may come with such a custom. Well, let's just be objective and say who it's up to. And that's why I did it again. And to refuse to gather the columnists and tell them that we're giving up. Don't do pyar instead of legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u225	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The committee proposes to adopt the draft Decree as a whole. I'm going to lay the groundwork first. If you support us, then we will advise on how to proceed. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Ordinance on application for membership in the European Union, registration number 6119. [[13:38:51]] For-61 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. The Party of the Regions – 26, Block of Timoshenko – 7, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 24, Communists, Block of Lithuania – 0, non-fractional – 4. I suggest your attention, Your Honor, the bill amending the Ukrainian Advertising Act. [[on the promotion of medicines]] Registration number 5339-2. I would like to vote on this issue in favour of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:39:37]] For 181 Decision taken. The reporter is Heratchenko, Gerasimük. They are, as far as I know, on the Council of Europe. Therefore, the committee will be chaired by the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u226	Thank you. The Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information at its meeting on September 15, 2010, reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to the Advertising Act, registration number 5339-2, introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies Heratchenko and Gerasimük. [[on the advertising of medical devices]] And he recommends that the first reading be based on it. This decision has been taken by the committee in view of the fact that the proposed changes will improve the legislative regulation of advertising, improve the protection of advertising users, as advertisers will not be able to mislead consumers by advertising medicines as new when medicines are present in the market for more than 2 years. Advertisers will be free of overindulgence and psychological pressure on the consumer. Appropriate suggestions, according to members of the committee, are right and worthy of support. However, the committee, like the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, draws the attention of MPs to the need for editorial adjustment in this bill. And please support the committee's decision and the results of the first reading of the adoption of Bill 5339-2 in the first reading and on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u227	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Is there a need to discuss this? Please sign up. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Vadim Koleschenko, if you please, the microphone, will then be performed by Catherine Vaschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u228	Dear colleagues! It should be noted that this initiative to supplement article 21 on advertising, and the new part of the 12th that prohibits advertising of medical devices, medical techniques, methods of prevention, diagnostics and so on, does not comply with part three of article 13 of the Ukrainian Advertising Act, according to which advertising should be placed between programmes of broadcasting. Some doubts arise from the addition of the amendments to part six of article 21 of the Ukrainian Advertising Act, which stipulates that the advertising of medical devices, medical techniques, methods and so on prohibits the posting of information that medical devices, medical techniques, methods of prevention, diagnostics, etc. are new if it is implemented in the local market for more than two years. This raises questions about the criteria behind which the novelties of these tools and methods are established. At the same time, the term “local market” is used in the said position, and its contents are not disclosed. It should be noted that the adoption of this bill may have an impact on the size of the advertising budget. It thus requires appropriate financial and economic justification, as part two of article 27 of the Ukrainian Budget Code requires. In view of this, this bill could be adopted in the first reading and on a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u229	Katerina Vaschuk, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u230	Katerina Vaschuk, People's Party, Lithuanian Block. Dear colleagues! We all know that all the commercials that come from the television screen are probably the most damaging to the advertising of medical devices. We have many examples, especially when medicines are advertised that promise to become very thin and beautiful to all women on the second day, and then when we examine the depth of them, it turns out that they are drugs that are harmful to health that pose a threat to very serious health. Such examples can be cited with other medicines. When drugs are advertised, the responsibility for what is advertised is to adopt that law only in the first reading. And we must write down the standard that drugs are taken to advertise, which are of good quality as confirmed by the Ministry of Health or by appropriate health - care services. Because by advertising we can do more harm than any harm can be done to a person's health through harmful drugs. If they are treated and harmed, if they do not help, and if they do not allow them to cause disease, there is much to do to help them in a timely manner. Therefore, we will insist that one of the standards is the mandatory validation of the quality of medicines, for unfortunately advertising is believed by people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u231	Andrew Shevchenko, BUT faction, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u232	Colleagues, I fully understand our irritation with advertising as a whole and the insurmountable advertising of drugs in particular, and that is why I think that we should be very sensitive to all legislative changes in this area. I will not support this bill in the vote, I will explain why. What should be a criterion for us when we talk about television advertising, on the radio, on my conviction, is European advertising rules. And for us in this sense, there are two key documents, first, last year, for Ukraine, the European Convention on Transboundary Television became effective. Secondly, last year another document appeared in Europe called the so-called audiovisual directive of the European Union. So both of these documents, they're more liberal than the rules that are now being proposed to us to introduce the drafters. I think that when we choose between European practice and among other initiatives, we have to stick to European rules for a simple reason: if it turns out that we have rules that are tougher, less comfortable for TV channels, we will not be able to be full participants in European television and radio station. I think we need to think not only about the present and the irritation of the advertisement we have today, but about tomorrow. Or we're going to be full participants in a European radio market that lives with more and more liberal rules every year, or we're going to be on the sidelines of this process. So I urge you not to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u233	Vladimir Karpuk, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u234	Vladimir Karpuk "Our Ukraine". This bill and other alternative laws that are registered in the Supreme Council are proof of the changes to the legislation on advertising for medical devices. I have to say that increasing advertising for drugs that have long been used in the market is extremely damaging. And the opinion of the Health Committees, and this bill was also discussed on our committee, in a unanimous way, that we should take, even hard measures. There is another alternative bill where there are a number of new dispositions that are more rationally regulated. And I think we're not going to support this project, but we're going to support the one that was developed by the committee that's registered in the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u235	Yes, thank you. Question completed. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Advertising Act. [[Registration number 5339-2]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:48:11]] For-7. The decision is not supported. The bill was rejected. We are considering draft laws amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts by the authors of the Yacenouk and Kondratuk Bills. [[on strengthening guarantees of freedom of speech in Ukraine]] [[Registration numbers 6447 and 6447-1]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:48:48]] For 196 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u236	Dear colleagues, we have yet another insecurities here, but we have not voted on a question that we have concluded. Right, Andrew Chevchenko? Vote? I'm sorry. Then we go to Bill 6447, 6447-1. Rapporteurs of the National Deputy of Ukraine Arsenij Petrovich Yacenuk and Kondratjuk Olena Konstantinovna Correspondent is Head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information, Andrew Shevchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u237	Hello, everyone! The issue of freedom of speech in Ukraine is heard not only among our citizens but also among our partners, both in the West and in the East. What is freedom of speech? Freedom of speech is primarily the right to know the truth. Not the version of the truth that we hear today from a whole range of TV channels, but the truth and the reality of what is happening in the country. I think that the question of freedom of speech needs to be considered both in the walls of Parliament and directly among our fellow national MPs. Recently, it was discovered that one of our colleagues was suffering from a delicate journalist from a five - channel channel in which he sentenced 20,000 dollars for causing him psychological trauma and was depressed. I think it would be useful for the Regulatory Committee to redistribute funds to the medical services of such deputies so that they do not become depressed and to treat them from such complex forms of mental disorder by journalists. As for the text of the bill. This bill is a complex law: which for the first time in the history of Ukraine protects the rights of journalists who determine what censorship is, which introduces criminal responsibility for the introduction of censorship, which obliges public authorities and officials to respond in a mandatory manner to journalistic requests, which prevents journalists from being arrested while performing professional duties, which prevents journalists from taking away a microphone from the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and which guarantees one of the fundamental constitutional rights of Ukraine and Ukraine, is the right to know the truth and the right to freedom of expression. That's why I'm asking you to accept this bill. And so that this part of the hall that represents power today would support this bill is willing to take it out in the interest of a colleague in the opposition to Elena Condratjuk just so that we can vote and adopt it in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u238	Yes. I'd like to invite you to the presentation of Olena Condratuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u239	Dear colleagues, I understand that there is a reasonable question: what is and why is such an alternative in the matter of the protection of freedom of speech needed? So the bill I'm proposing is an alternative to Arsenius Yatsenuk's project. But the reason why there is such an alternative and some competition is not because I think the proposals contained in his bill are wrong or because opposition representatives cannot agree on any issue. The fact is that Arsenius and I, Petrovich, see ways to ensure freedom of speech is not strategically different. At tactical times, however, there are some differences. Most important: To effectively protect freedom of speech and to combat censorship, it is necessary to force everyone to carry out a valid Constitution. Improve existing legislation. To ensure that standards that protect freedom of speech or journalist turn from declarative to real actors. My bill has deliberately incorporated only unchallenged legislative proposals, which, I stress, directly stem from the norms of the current legislation of Ukraine. First. Since the Constitution of Ukraine prohibits censorship, I propose a new article 161.1 in the Criminal Code. “The violation of the right to freedom of literary, artistic, scientific, technical or censorship”. The other one. Article 17 of the Ukrainian Act on State support for the media provides that the responsibility for committing a crime against a journalist in connection with his professional duties is compared to responsibility for doing the same against a law enforcement officer. Thus, changes and additions to the relevant articles of the Criminal Code must be made. A detailed provision of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, which provides for the responsibility of obstructing the legitimate professional activities of journalists, establishes responsibility for removing the collected, processed, and prepared ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u240	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u241	prepared by journalists of materials and technology used by journalists in connection with their service activities. And finally I want to point out that it's time to stop pretending that the right to freedom of speech in the country is well protected and guaranteed, and today we need to offer both media and journalists at least a minimal but real and effective legislative mechanism for the protection of freedom of speech. That's why I'm asking you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u242	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Andrey Shevchenko, please make the committee and let's go to the vote, because we have. I would ask the national deputies, a very important question, to be in the session room so that we can make a decision. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u243	Colleagues! Another reason why we need to discuss this issue is that it stands there, next to the drafters of the bill, this box with the inscription “Boutu 20,000 bracelets”. I'll remind you what this is about, and I want to draw attention to this absolutely insolent story that happens at the hands of our colleague. Yesterday, the Court of Appeal of Kiev ruled that the five channel correspondent, Olga Snisarczuk, was to pay our colleague Yuri Butu 20,000 dollars of moral damage. He explained that her, her words in the story, where she called him “a fugitive from the coalition”, caused her many weeks of suffering and depression. I'm lowering the point where depression and suffering are caused by the actions of MPs who are changing the party from which they came to Parliament, that's another story. But I think it's a court decision, it fits into a general picture of what's going on in the country. For example, a bed of newspapers should remember how money against journalists and against the media tried to shut the mouth of the press. I think that such a story, it casts a shadow on the whole Supreme Council, requires our reaction so that such stories do not repeat themselves. Now essentially the bill. I recall that these two legislative initiatives came after a series of press protests in the spring when journalists called on the Supreme Council to take decisive action to strengthen the guarantees of freedom of speech. This was, in particular, a separate requirement of the “Stop Censorships” journalistic movement. I think, given that there was still a need for such legislative changes, we should thank our two colleagues for taking the initiative and for developing concrete changes to legislation that can help journalists. The committee's decision was next. The committee considered both bills. He supported both bills and invited the national MPs in the session hall to support both bills, provided that they were co-produced for second reading. I realize that this is such a delicate decision from the point of view of the Rules, but we remember the situation when the Supreme Council went on to merge alternative bills into second reading. We think this is the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u244	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is a request and a suggestion to be very careful about what the Supreme Council of Ukraine has identified from the proposed issue. I'll put up some respectable colleagues, we need them now. Well, please, there's no time to discuss. That's the question. Please sign up if you need to discuss it. Please log in. Please put your name on the board. Andrew Parubius. He entitles Viacheslav Kirilenko to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u245	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party “For Ukraine!” Dear colleagues, indeed, the question is inextricable, very important. It's a pity that not all of us, and the factions of the majority, and the minority factions, are now present. But I will express my firm conviction. Even if the majority were present and the whole minority was present in the hall, there would be no improvement in freedom of speech in Ukraine. Because there is a tendency dictated by power. And unfortunately, I'm sure Parliament can't stop this trend right now. Journalists created the Stop Censorship movement. Of course, not surprisingly, they created it, but because there are mass facts of manifest or hidden censorship and in the activities of journalists — on TV channels, in printed media, in other institutions. There is the persecution of specific people and the challenge of interviewing them, and these people have a bearing on the social structures that, on behalf of civil society, control the state of freedom of speech. That's why, I think, once again, my view of Ukraine, which was already perfectly successful in this regard, has brought to the attention of the European public. In particular, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe adopted a resolution on the functioning of democratic institutions in Ukraine, where the blacks in white are told: The Assembly expresses its concern about the increasing number of accusations and reports that democratic freedoms and rights such as the right to meetings, the right to freedom of expression and media have recently been under pressure. Parliament must therefore react. And these two bills, which are introduced by the honourable deputies, are absolutely on time. It is a pity that we have a direct conviction that these bills will not be passed today, like all the other resonant bills that are being tabled by the opposition in general and the party “For Ukraine!” in particular. That is why I call now, regardless of perhaps any other instructions from the majority of MPs to press the pros button. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u246	Paul Sulkowski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u247	Paul Sulkowski, faction of the Party of the Regions, Ravenshkin. You know, Arsenija Petrovich, I'd like to ask you a question, unfortunately, that's following a simplified procedure for considering this project. So, Arsenija Petrovich, please tell me, if you do, you think that protection, I, we all, too, is for lawyers to defend, to give opportunities to speak, but to speak the truth. I believe that in this bill we need to add responsibility for misinformation or false information. And also a journalist's responsibility, you also have to be held accountable. Here's a living example I want to tell you. During the five years of the orange team, the orange team, some channels have caused the state to become restless, to lie, and so forth. Who Was Responsible? Nobody. In equality, let me give you an example of a commercial one channel. He's the previous authority of the orange that financed and continues to finance this channel, they're today instilling lies in the region of equality, they're taking ratings like these, so-called, they're saying influential politicians and politicians who for five years ruled, stole the state's budget, they're stealing the government's budget, they're stealing from the people of Ukraine, and today this channel is falsely doing it on the Plains, so politics, such a previous governor as you personally, Arsenij Petrovich, you're supporting it today, and we're keeping it on your team. So I think here is the lie, the lie, and you only protect those thieves that are on your team. That's why I think it's important to look and accept, to protect journalists, but just journalists, not those who sell and play only for the benefit of individual thieves in the state. And these are the ones we have today, unfortunately, we do.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u248	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? One minute, non-fractional. Mr. Blackwall, please. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u249	Dear colleagues, I would also urge everyone to support Mrs. Condratuk's drafts, which in fact does not contain provocative moments or moments that can contribute in two ways. That's what we have to do. It is not just our international commitments, it is what we need to live in this country. But I do have a question. You know, they keep saying someone's out there, something. And probably. Why are those who are supposed to defend themselves absent today? The non-fractional, most willing to vote, would be BUT, would be the whole “Our Ukraine” in full presence, you know, enough votes. If it's not enough to say that someone is guilty, let's start with ourselves. Come to the hall and work.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u250	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-06-m0.u251	No, no. There's already been a speech. Dear colleagues, calm down. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt as the basis of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on strengthening the guarantee of freedom of speech in Ukraine]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:03:27]] For-31 The decision is not taken. I propose to vote a proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on strengthening guarantees of freedom of speech in Ukraine and combating censorship]] [[Registration number 6447-1]] Please make up your mind, Your Honor. [[14:04:01]] For 257 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is an offer. Dear colleagues! The factions, please. Region Party – 168, “Block of Timoshenko” – 7, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 23, Communists – 27, “Block of Lithuania” – 21, non-fractional – 11. Dear colleagues, there is now a request to consider the inclusion in the agenda of the bill and then to close the meetings of the Supreme Council, as there are a number of issues that the opposition representatives are proposing. They're very sensitive, and let's look at them when there are reporters. No objections? So I'm asking for your attention right now. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily project Decision No. 7203 on the holding of a special plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the political crisis in Ukraine, which arose in connection with the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 30 September 2010 No. 20-pp/2010. [[Registration number 7203]] Please identify yourself. [[14:05:23]] For-23 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, “Timoshenko Block” – 7, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 16, Communists, “Litvina Block” and non-fractional – 0. I would like to vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the daily project. [[2:06:01]] For-24 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko” - 3, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” - 18, Communists, “Club of Lithuania” - 0, “Afterfractional” - 3. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Law on the specificities of the application of the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads in the October 31st, 2010 elections. [[Registration number 7177]] [[14:06:46]] For-12. The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft of the Law on Moratorium for the conduct of strict cuts and exports abroad of wood and sawmills. [[Registration number 3035]] About getting into the daytime. [[14:07:17]] For-52 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to include a daily draft Act amending articles 346, 351, 384, 385 and 386 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on the strengthening of responsibility for creating artificial obstacles to the work of temporary investigation commissions, the special interim commission of inquiry and the temporary special commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine]] [[Registration number 3594]] [[14:08:01]] For-47 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to include a daily draft Act amending articles 188-19 and 255 of the Code of Administrative Offences. [[on strengthening responsibility for creating artificial obstacles to the work of Ukrainian national deputies]] [[Registration number 3595]] Please vote. [[14:08:38]] For-23 The decision is not taken. I would like to place a motion for the inclusion in the agenda of a bill amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on increasing responsibility for non-compliance with established crop harvests]] Registration number 5172. Please vote. [[14:09:09]] For-46 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, you have a proposal for a draft decree to mark the twentieth anniversary of the student "revolution on the granite." Registration number 7159. To be included in the agenda, please. Please vote. [[14:09:44]] For-43 The decision is not taken. I would like to vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act "On mandatory public pension insurance". [[on payment of a fixed-size premium to the Pension Fund]] Registration number 7105. [[14:10:19]] For the 18th. The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Tax System. [[concerning the temporary prohibition of tax and congregation tax increases]] Registration number 4200. [[14:10:50]] For-19 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft the Ordinance on the Inadmissibility of Violations of the Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” by law enforcement officials and central executive heads, registration number 7151. [[14:11:25]] For-53 The decision is not taken. And now attention, fellow citizens, is another decision: the draft regulation on ensuring the unhindered activities of the media during the 2010 pre-election period. [[Registration number 7100]] I would like to vote on the inclusion of the draft order in the agenda, please vote. [[14:12:06]] For 233 Decision taken. By factions, please: Region Party – 151, Block Timoshenko – 7, Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense – 17, Communists – 27, Block Lithuania – 21, non-fractional – 10. Dear colleagues, in view of the fact that we should continue to consider the matter, however. There is no committee decision, I'd like to provide committees with appropriate decisions. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. At 3 p.m. parliamentary hearings on state humanitarian policy, and since the 15th hour of committee meetings. Tomorrow we continue to work on the schedule set for Thursday, October 07.
