ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u1	Dear colleagues! Please prepare for registration. Please enable the "Council" system. Let's register. [[15:59:29]] There are 370 National Deputies cards registered in the session hall. I hereby declare the evening session of the Supreme Council open. We continue to discuss the draft Codex Tax Code. We're about to move on to the People's Deputies. How long will it take? Five minutes? No, it's not. Come on, 30 minutes, then. 30 minutes. Please, King Eugene Ivanovich, please, the Communist faction, prepare for him for Serbia.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u2	Honourable People's Deputies, but the leader of the faction has reflected our main position on the Tax Code. Indeed, there are many negative points, but both to Minfin and to the Government, and to most, there is indeed one request: not to see it as a document that is completely destructive. You know, instead of 40 laws and over 230 regulations, we're still getting a single document, and in a large way, in 20 years, we can systematize all these documents in one code. And the flaws, I think, for the second reading, and when we're ready, we'll eliminate them. What comments I have as the head of the subcommittee and as the faction. First. Well, that's what the leader said about them. Nevertheless, the progressive scale of taxation should return to second reading is a principled position. At the transport charge, we also did an experiment, asked for the entire cubicle of our transportation, which is in the GAI, multiplied it by the amount of money that has to be paid for transportation charges. And they just transferred it into asphalt and the roadside. In one reporting period, all roads in Ukraine must be covered with a seven - inch [7 cm] asphalt. So just multiply the cube by that amount. It is therefore clear that this is a vast field for corruption. Accordingly, once we dilute it in gasoline, there really must be a strict administration of this tax, and it must be taken into account that tomorrow the oil traders, given that we will dissolve this tax in gasoline, should not raise the cost of gasoline and say that it is a mirror to dissolve that tax. We also believed that if it was properly administered, the petrol increase would be only one keg of petrol cost. It is therefore a second principled position for us to take this moment into account for the second reading, as well as the one spoken of by the leader of the faction. To think about what to do with concessions that have benefits for both veterans and other categories of citizens of this transport collection. Unfortunately, the second issue in this draft Tax Code is also the ears of Sergey Leonidovic Tihyp in terms of deposit taxation, i.e. taxes on incomes already earned by citizens. And we said, let's bring in a million bracelets, and it'll be fairer than touching the people who are picking up someone for treatment, someone's grandchild for clothing. We also require the deletion from article 85, section II, of the provision on the possibility of seizure by officials and supervisory authorities, including by decision of the Court of First Instance of financial and economic activities. This can't be allowed in any way. It must be clearly stated that, in accordance with article 92 of the Ukrainian Constitution, the tax, tax and tax system is exclusively established by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is not in this code, so we must understand that changes can then be made only by Parliament, then it will be fair. I'm also asking the subcommittee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u3	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u4	Two positions: the first is the requirement of believers under their right to tax and the second is to take into account the requirements of software developers. Our exports amount to 1 billion grevens.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u5	Thank you. Serbin, please. Behind him is Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u6	Dear colleagues, so as not to be criticized for finding in the Tax Code only the negative that the government has given, I've been looking for a long and long time for a positive in this code and, fortunately, I have found. There's an offer that we don't have VAT to build affordable and social housing. That's good. The only thing I think is to keep in mind about young people and to add to the question is that this is freed and housing for young people. Sadly, though, this is all that I have found positive in this codex. Recently, Cuba’s radio was broadcast about three weeks ago that Cuba was moving to market reforms and that it was already allowed to work in an individual order for cleaning women, skins, craftsmen. So when I read the position that we are exempt from taxes or on a simplified system, we have enterprises that have two employees, no more, we have a slogan in our government: “Go, to socialist Cuba!” because all other businesses in small and medium-sized enterprises should stop their activities. And what the consequences will be after that, you all understand. Now I want to go back to the tricky question of the LHK, and these are the tariffs. We, already 25 percent of the major assets in the country are in the realm of the LHC. What are we doing? We now have an average wage of half the country’s average wage in the LHK. So 1,200 dollars versus 2,100, I'm rounding the wage. What do we have in the Tax Code for this matter? What benefits? Maybe the company would give some taxes, maybe we could, we've already given it twice or three times. Let's at least half of the profit by this, a small number of companies, half of the profit, is going to increase the wages. If they are engaged in energy efficiency and efficiency gains, and in improving the quality of their services. We don't see it again. What's going on? We don't fund the reform of the LHC, and we don't give any benefits. That is, as we took from the population for unquality services, so we take them. Price, price of gas. What we had at the price of gas, I end up at the price of gas to raise the price. 65 percent are taxes that the state has imposed on its own gas. And the basics, that's the rent and the charge for the nadra. What's going on now? The government, realizing that nothing is being taken from this sector, has increased its income by 60 percent this year and its price has increased its own production gas in order for these enterprises to develop. So it takes even more out of the population. Of course, take payment for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u7	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u8	We're gonna need a payday. However, the rent may still be reduced in order to keep businesses from taking money from their own population. And this is “elegentally, Watson” as Sherlock Holmes said. The more money people have, the more the supply will develop.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u9	Thank you. Tonight, please, the faction of the Party of Regions. It's Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u10	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected people's deputies, respected citizens of Ukraine, we are today really adopting an important bill that is vital to the country as a whole. The Tax Code, which was drafted by the Cabinet of Ministers, should create conditions for the modernization of our economy and Ukraine as a whole. It provides for a tangible reduction in the tax burden, the goals and objectives of our entire Ukrainian society. The adoption of the Tax Code will bring many progressive, positive changes to the tax system in Ukraine. The ultimate objective of tax reform is to stimulate economic recovery in the country and improve the standard of living of people. The main positive results from the adoption of the Tax Code by the Government of Azarov are the first simplification of the tax mechanism, the reduction of the fiscal burden on the various categories of taxpayers, the reduction of the profit tax rate from 25 to 19. But if we want to. Considering that Fedor Alekseevich is here, if we want to lower normal taxes, we need to reduce to 17, the VAT rate from 20 to 17 per cent, but we need to do it not in 2004, but the VAT should be reduced from 2011 as our neighbours do if we really want to fill in our country's budget transparently. The introduction of the principle of the presumption of legality of the decisions of the taxpayer and the taxpayer of the draft apriori law until the court proves otherwise. Again, the question “And the judges who?” Today is one corruption. Revitalization of major production funds as well as the country's infrastructure is the right thing to do. Establishment of transparent, uniform tax rules for all, and the introduction of fair competition. All your words are to God, but today we see that frequent checks, in six months, can be two, three checks, that is, business is not allowed to work today. Therefore, these things must be excluded from the bill as an evil for the entire Ukrainian people. It's been a calendar year, and we have to do a background check. All VAT-recovery violations will be addressed through the introduction of an automated VAT administration system. The document will reduce fiscal pressure on business, provide a platform for economic recovery and reduce the supervisory function of tax authorities, and make them more democratic. On this basis, I ask the distinguished members of the people to support this bill, to adopt all these as a basis and in second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u11	Yes, thank you. Yuri Karmazin, please “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Get ready, Bondik.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u12	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! Today we were presented with a document that we did not actually see in the form of a document, because we were given a presentation like for children in a school for letters, a draft of the Tax Code. We have a picture, it's interesting, of course, but I have to, and it's beautiful, but I have to carry a computer with me to see all your art. And I want to tell you, first of all, that I'm a codification. What's more, 12 years ago, I filed the first draft of the code, 12 years ago. Then we worked together. I thank you very much now, Mikoli Dmitrovich Katerinczuk, who was nervous, nervous, because he really presented our codex, he really presented a serious product, an intellectual product. What did the government, the entire vast government, offer today? This is a document for Ukraine without Ukrainians, this is what the government has today, today, is huge. I read that they write experts. They write that the result of codification, which is in its natural form of improving legislation, is a new consolidated legislative act, a code that changes it. But this document doesn't fit these parameters, so it's not a code at all, there's no general and special part that's in this code that was presented by Mikola Dmitrovitch Catherinechuk. So their comparisons, you see, not just by quantity. The government had already reached such a pen that they could not print and submit a document here in accordance with the Rules. But nothing. They thought we weren't reading here. We're reading. Article 20 has 44 tax services, 44 points. What's that for? Today, there are as many as 13 rights for taxpayers and 7 for tax administrations, including constitutional compliance. Dear friends, I'd like to tell you that you've come a long way. You're changing the Criminal Code, you're changing the Code of Administrative Justice, and you're proposing these changes. You've come a long way. So we offered to talk to the government in a clear and frank manner. I am telling you now: open the website “legislativeproject.org.ua”. There we began a real national discussion. And everyone, the whole nation can read and the whole nation can write there -- and you can write, Mikola Janovich, and Viktor Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u13	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u14	I'm done. Thank you. Everyone will be able to get to know what they think of them. Now, let's talk about determination. Dear Adam Ivanovich, you put her to the vote now, the determination that is. It should be accepted in two readings — the first reading as a basis and the second reading. When we make changes now, we will have the right, not just the people you define. Because our committee couldn't make that assessment, well, obviously because of its politicization, others. And you've given us the standards that you praised today, of course. But these standards are far from democracy. The miller shows that he boasted. Write it down again: “the curve is protected”. Write this down: “the curve is protected”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u15	Thank you. Thank you. Yuri Anatolyevich, it turns out you know how to use the Internet if a public discussion is organized and you say you haven't read the code. Yes, please, Bondik, the faction of the Party of Regions. There'll be a replica. Then there's jojik after him.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u16	Highly esteemed colleagues, a venerable predestination! I disagree with Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin, let him take the line because the government has complied with the Rules. I had to read it. He passed it on to the Tax Code, but we already have him in the study. Today, the government presented such a presentation. So this is a short annotation. And you know, rephrasing classics: the codex is not dogma, it's a guide to action. You know, since September 1st, the financial year has begun, and you and I are taking on a budget. The budget should be based on the new Tax Code, according to what we have adopted. What is a budget in general? According to accounting, this is a balance of expenses and gains. So what we've done, what we've counted into the budget, what we're spending. And in order to be a deficient tax code, you and I have to take the first reading for what? In order for him to be right, for example, and Nicholas Catherinechuk to be able to prepare for the second reading, we would be able to improve the innovation model and all the novels that are in this Tax Code that the government has submitted. For example, tax breaks for business. For example, a transparent philosophy of attitude. So the tax is the state's law enforcement regulator. And you don't have to do the tragedy here, as Yuri Anatolyevich says. The code is just a bill report. And there's a special norm on colleges of special and general standards. Everything that is not corrected in this code will be governed by laws. But the code, it's a few laws, it's not going to be real, and it's not going to be based, because there's going to be a code, a new code. But it needs to be worked out. And I agree with my colleague Lapin, who says, in fact, the tax pressure on those who work must be the measure of responsibility: how much work we've done, how much we've spent. That's the first thing and the main thing. The other one. You and I, working in the districts, we know how entrepreneurs, manufacturers, and all that. You and I know that some chapters -- and this is what I'm saying to Mr. Jaroshenko -- are some chapters, for example, chapter V, when a woodworking industry has a profit in what it says to make changes to codes when our domestic producer cannot export wood. Because there really is a limit to something. So there's, you know, there's no tragedy. In the first reading, we should adopt a code, and then work with you, take all the rational steps that Catherine has, take all the rational ones, which are the other subjects of our legislative initiative. Thank you. I'm asking you to support this code.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u17	Thank you. Jaroslav Jojik, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Prepare Chetchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u18	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The Ukrainian People’s Party believes that the draft Codex Codex cannot be adopted in the manner in which it is submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This document needs substantial work. UNODC has to note that the draft Tax Code does not ensure that the basic principles of the tax system are implemented. UNODC has repeatedly stressed that the tax system should be clear to taxpayers, exclude double interpretations, and form partnerships with public institutions. To promote the development of a national manufacturer, especially a high-value scientist. Develop tax standards that do not create preferences for importers in the internal market to promote small and medium-sized businesses. Stimulate investment in the national economy. After severe criticism of the previous version, the government draft of the Tax Code was substantially revised, but not to the best of terms. In a chaotic, illogical document, there is virtually no incentive and regulatory function for taxes. It must be noted that the project does not explicitly agree on tax rules for small taxpayers, depending on their legal or physical functions. UNODC notes that the natural persons of entrepreneurs, irrespective of their choice of a common or simplified system of taxation, have been transformed into distortions whose activities the government is trying to maximize. UNODC notes that the government has disobeyed our argument about the negative effects of the VAT reduction, although it is the most budgetary tax to date. For example, income from the budget, VAT, and imported land this year, according to the State Budget Act, is expected to amount to 78 billion. A reduction in the rate from 20 to 17 percent would mean a loss of 12 billion dollars. It is clear that the lower VAT rate will primarily contribute to imports, instead of national producers being subjected to additional tax pressure to compensate for the loss of the budget as a result of the lower VAT rate. UNODC wants an explanation from the government why, while aspiring for a substantial increase in the single tax rate for entrepreneurs, the government, at the same time, is leaving $300,000 in annual turnover due to a substantial change in prices of 11 years. UNODC requires taxation of small ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u19	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u20	It should also be noted that despite the offer of UNODC, the government on the one hand is urging Ukrainians to tighten their traps by increasing gas prices and utility charges, and on the other hand it does not actually offer any tax measures to facilitate the installation of gas, water, heat, energy conservation and the use of alternative sources of energy. We urge the deputies to return the Tax Code to the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u21	Please, Mikhaylo Chechtov, prepare Teryochina.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u22	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished people's deputies, we are considering two alternative codes, a code submitted by the People's Chamber of the European Party leader Nikolai Dmitryevich Katerinczuk and a code submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. I'm talking about the Codex Nikolai Dmitryevich. You know, a few days ago, the leaders of 9 political opposition parties gathered, signed a statement of criticism and so on. But the main task of the opposition is not to criticize, but to offer alternatives. Of the nine leaders, only one, the leader of the European Party, wrote the codex and filed it. And the rest of them aren't, they're almost gone, two people are just sitting in the lead room. That is why I appeal to Nikolai Dmitryevich, who can really unite you with the opposition and as the leader of the European Party to give the opposition a European face so that the world will not be ashamed to show our opposition to be with the European face. And together with you, we will build a European democracy in Ukraine. Now for the comparison. With all due respect to Nikolai Dmitrievich, I can tell you one thing: he worked alone. Of course, the intellectual potential of one person cannot be compared with that of the Cabinet of Ministers; there are dozens of institutions, dozens of creative groups, doctors, academics working on the bill, so it is, of course, stronger, unequal conditions. But at the same time, I must say that Nikolai Dmitryevich has normal proposals that can be taken into account in the second reading of the law that was passed, which we will accept and prepare by Kabmin. You know, let's look at the code on both sides. Of course, every person who sees himself in a niche where he has to pay, whether in a small business or in a small business, or in a small business, or in a niche, that's how to say the APC industrial enterprise. He wants no taxes in this pool, he's worried about the tax burden on his niche, but he doesn't see the country. And the Cabinet of Ministers, the Minister of Finance, the Government, it sees the country, and it sees the country. If no one pays, how will the budget be filled? How can we then finance social programs? So, in my view, for six months of discussions, I repeat, I have to pay tribute to patience, to the six months of discussions, to the arguments that we have come up with the latest version of the law, where, in my view, I think the balance is already being seen: on the one hand, between the possibility of filling and guaranteeing the budget, and on the other hand, the perspective and the door are open for business, to stimulate business. The last strokes could be reported, I was just meeting with the voters on the street, saying, "If anything is not taken into account, we'll take two or three weeks into account and there'll be a perfect bill." I propose a bill on first reading, which has been passed by the Cabinet of Ministers, and all reasonable, part-time provisions to take from Nikolai Dmitryevich, yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u23	Yes. I learned to see a better country soon before the colleagues of Catherinechuku offered a high office. Yes, I can't see Teriochina. Please, Pavlovsky. Follow him, Landik. Huh? It's a painful word, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u24	By analyzing the Tax Code that we are currently considering, that is, Number 2 and the presentation that we've been looking at all this time, there's the impression that there was a team working on the Tax Code -- and this is now confirmed, and it's presented by a completely different team, and the government officials who did the task put ideologies, but they probably didn't prove it. If I analyzed exactly what I was saying, Azarov, when presenting the Tax Code, said: “The Tax Code gives equal rights to the state and businesses. Tax authorities and entrepreneurs have equal rights.” What is really going on? What is the equality? If you take the authority of the tax authorities, they are greatly expanded, greatly expanded. As in the previous version, the New Tax Code contains provisions on the administrative arrest of assets. What are the tax payers' rights? They are written in the codex itself, and they occupy a very, very small territory. And if it's true, they're even smaller than they're supposed to be. Where's the right? And you know what statistics are generally about tax authorities. Businesses have calculated that 260 working days a year is needed to conduct businesses, such as reporting and communicating with tax authorities. We have already listened to the level of tax burden in the Tax Code, which is five times higher. Where does it go down? What are the levels of authority in general? What a reform for one - person entrepreneurs we have heard. Small and medium - size businesses are completely destroyed by bankruptcy. Mr. Azarov says: “We have created conditions under which the state in the person of its officials and entrepreneurs would have equal rights before the law.” Levels of rights before the law. Let's start with the introduction of the Tax Code. Mr. Mikolo, do we have the right to introduce this Tax Code now, I mean to form a budget on the basis of this Tax Code? The budget code says that all tax changes, right, yes, the 27th article says that all taxes that change should be voted and approved by August 15. The Law on the Tax System states that such changes should be made in six months. How can we deal with this? How will entrepreneurs cope? How he'll handle it on his own.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u25	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u26	You can keep this up. When you take quotes, you talk about the pressure that's going down in the first place, the pressure is going down. That's not true. We're saying that the number of control organs is decreasing in general. Do you know how many taxpayers we have? 60 grand. That's two and a half times more if you take it from the population than you do at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u27	Thank you. Thank you. You've taken 40 seconds, sorry, sorry. Landik, please, Vladimir. Well, I can't keep finishing. Every minute they finish and they finish again. Finish the last sentence. You can't step on your eyes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u28	I won't rush. I mean.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u29	Your colleagues, I have no regard for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u30	I mean. Thank you. Such a tax code cannot be accepted, it cannot be accepted. I think it was written by some people, and you put ideology in another. This codex needs to be completely reworked, converted, and worked together. Thank you. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u31	Landik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u32	Since I've got a minute left, I'll train her.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u33	No, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u34	Thank you. Well, if you think about it, who hasn't told us what the country's tax code should be? How long have we been saying this? How much of our independent Ukraine, as far as we are concerned about the Tax Code, pension reform, education reform, medicine and so on. The Tax Code has been passed. No document has been discussed in Ukraine since the Tax Code. I was with him. [[I've never interfered with you.]] Nobody. No one was prohibited from accessing it. Any political organization, public organization, entrepreneurs, large, small business, was able to discuss and present its proposal. Another matter is whether they're all taken into account. That's a different matter. But this is an unprecedented case of all-Ukrainian discussion of a document, which is one of the main ones in our country, which is called the Tax Code. But still, if you look at the articles, its provisions, i.e., in my personal opinion, and in the view of the entrepreneurs I meet, and the ordinary Ukrainian citizens with even auto-transport, they can be said to reduce the pressure on the transport tax when we remove it, yes. The addition to the price of gasoline, I'll tell you, significant, when 6 percent per litre of gasoline increases, that's significant. And when we multiply by the number of days and the cost, we're going to be able to pay more by removing this tax on transport, gasoline. It's really, I think we need to work out here. Of course, when we call small business 300,000 bracelets, and we started with 500,000 a year, so when we talked 500,000, it was $100,000. [[The Lapland probably remembers]] It's a hundred thousand dollars for today's 800. So it's not 300, it's 500, I think we should add 800. But that would be, you know, significant and visible. If we start to split.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u35	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u36	And so on, it's not always clear. So, I think on the first reading, we need to accept it unconditionally and everything that all of my colleagues here have been talking about needs to be taken into account and corrected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u37	Discussion is over. Please. Wait, wait. There'll be lines, there'll be lines. Now let's listen to the closing word. Please, Mikola Dmitrovitch, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u38	Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! First of all, I would like to thank all those who have criticized our bill and have made critical remarks today, making their proposals for improving tax legislation. But at the same time, I would like to insist on your understanding that with the Codex 7001, which I introduced, it would be easier to work. It can be made very quickly of quality. With the document presented by the government, the first step is to go through the codification phase. So that the courts can work. So I think it's a question of, well, it's too complicated in these circumstances. But I would still like to draw attention to those critical remarks that have been made in relation to the findings of the scientific management. Yes, indeed, to the Tax Code that I've presented today, there's a reference to scientific and scientific management on 16 letters. To the government’s 32nd page. Those remarks that, let's say, the head of the committee here sounded, I'd like to say a few words. Regarding the VAT of a unilateral act. Well, it's just that in science and science, and maybe my colleague doesn't know that this experiment is already being conducted in Austria in some product groups. Because they also consider the administration of VAT to be a waste to the state today. So this is already a more European experience. In terms of terms and terms. Well, we didn't just fix one thing at a time because we couldn't make a deal with the government to work together. Although that was the approach that was suggested. All these things, they're technical and they're translated according to the fact that for two years this bill, let's say, was in Parliament, it was on the committee and it wasn't considered. What else can be said? Regarding amnesty, yes. The Tax Code does not regulate criminal liability. This is regulated by the Criminal Code. Therefore, applying amnesty as an instrument would require some changes to the Ukrainian Criminal Code. So this is also an argument that looks something, let's say, on the surface. What else scientific expertise has been saying. That the priority of the code over other legislation is not allowed, and we think it's right. They're criticizing what we're offering profit, income tax to change and raise the depreciation rate, we think it's the right thing to do. And a lot of other things. Still, I would like to stress when I finish my speech. Regardless of the legislation we have now adopted, it will still affect all aspects of life in Ukraine. And before you push the buttons, think about what's behind your buttons is a 47 million-dollar country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u39	Yes, thank you, Mikola Dmitrovich. Please, Feder Alexiyovich. Feder Alexiyovich, turn the microphone on there. I'll give you a closing statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u40	I'm very much in favour of this conversation about the draft Tax Code prepared by the government. In fact, it was an open discussion, and I made a lot of records for myself. The commission has already been given. I think that the work that we're going to do, it's going to be done today, it's going to be done, it's going to be adopted by the draft law in the first reading, and we're going to prepare for the second reading, taking into account your suggestions, we're going to bring up an even more perfect document. So I thank all the participants personally, from all the government of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u41	Thank you. Hometic Vitaly. I can't see. Then, dear fellows, we will finish. After we have finished the question, the reply will be given to those mentioned during the discussion of the bill. Dear colleagues, I am absolutely in solidarity with those who have said that, in fact, lately so scrupulously, so persistently, so extensively, no bill has been discussed as discussed in the draft Tax Code. On the other hand, we are ashamed to admit that in almost 20 years of State independence, you and I have not been able to create the Tax Code. I don't think it's a beauty for the Supreme Council. What's more, believe me, there's been a few attempts by not one government to come to us with the Tax Code, but we keep talking about what we need, constantly and today we don't want it. Better to live by temporary rules, better to live by rules that are regulated and regulated every day and so on and so forth. I understand many of you who have spoken here. On the one hand, he advocated the interests of those who delegated him here, on the other hand, he could defend the interests of a business. Because, of course, each speaker talks about how to cut taxes but not any taxes. Excuse me, the chairman has the right to sum it up. You obey the Rules, Sas. You obey the Rules, Sas. You know him very well, you've forgotten something in the last few days. Clearly, then, each speaker wants to make a small contribution. Unfortunately, there was none of you who would like to and would like to suggest that let me offer to increase taxes in order to make a better state develop. And so it's clear that this situation is quite complex because it affects the interests, economic interests of many of those who have a bearing on the adoption of the code. Therefore, dear colleagues, we will be determined. We have two draft decrees. Committee decision: Project 7101 reject, 7101-1 take as a base. The findings of the General Scientific and Scientific Administration: 7101 the bill needs to be finalized; Bill 7101-1 can be adopted as a basis. I'm putting in order a proposal for acceptance on the basis of the 7101 draft Tax Code. The author of the bill is Mikola Dmitrovich Catherinechuk. I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:42:17]] For 124 The decision is not taken. The factions. Yes, and, honourable colleagues, the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is voted on by Bill No. 7101-1. But, dear fellows, in order to avoid what Yuri Anatoliyevich is quite justly proposing, if we take a draft decision in this way, as proposed, the National Deputies will have reason to refer this decision to a second reading. That is why we will follow the Rules. All he wants is a committee, and everything he's written down here, proposals, when he's accepted for his first reading, they're going to add to his second reading. And now we're going to make a clear and simple decision with you: about taking as a basis the first reading of the draft of the Ukrainian Code of Taxation, and we're going to have the profile committee prepare it for the second reading. [[Registration number 7101-1]] I'd like to vote on that. [[16:43:51]] For 258. Decision taken. I'm gonna say it again. The factions. 176 – Party of Regions, “Club of Timoshenko” – 4, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 11, Communists – 27, “Club of Lithuania” – 20, “Place of Action” – 20. Once again, dear colleagues, I emphasize. You and I have adopted a two-point draft of the decision: we have taken the basis and entrusted the committee of profile to prepare for the second reading. All the suggestions that are in this project, which are going to be in the National Deputies, they have the right to live for the second reading. Now the lines. Carmazine, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u42	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that there is a grave violation of part three of article 27 of the current Ukrainian Budget Code, which provides that laws that affect the formation of the income or expenditure portion of the budget should be officially published by August 15, preceding the planned year. It is I who draw the attention of the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister and you, Adam Ivanovich. Now, let's talk about the substance. Respectable national MPs, the rarest and most difficult profession will be the profession of accountants. As a miner, he can only make one mistake, and then he can arrest assets, force inventory, pre-planned checks, and everything else in the text, what's there. You know that entrepreneurs today give a mass statement about the registration of businesses. One in five, the sixth enterprise in Ukraine is eliminated. How will the State live because of this? Let's think about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u43	Yes, Melnik Peter Volodymyrovich, repeat, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u44	Peter Melnik, faction of the Regions. Dear colleagues, we have Yuri Carmazin commenting on all the questions that are being raised in the order of the Parliament today. I want him to read my dissertation. In 2001, I defended, scientific consultant Gejec Valeriy Mihajlovich, on the tax system in the transition economy. And I turned to, say, 1998 when the Center for Tax Policy was opened by the President of Ukraine, then Leonid Kuchma, head of the tax service, Mikola Janović Azarov, and the first deputy, Fedor Aleksyyovich Jaroshenko. When we studied both American and Dutch and Japanese and SND countries, when now 38 percent of the expert conclusions are our scientists at the National University of Taxation of Ukraine. [[That's over a thousand and a half.]] When, in fact, the entire scientific environment, the public is working on the code, not for six months, but for more than 10 years. And that's the holy truth. But that doesn't interfere.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u45	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. We've made a decision: let's thank the drafters of the Bills, Mikola Dmitrovitch Catherinechuk and the Cabinet of Ministers, in the person of the minister and his deputies who were here, and the profile committee, who worked actively and will continue to work on the code so that we can make proposals for 14 days, two weeks during the time frame. After processing, there will be enough and enough, of course, many. And for about the end of October, in early November we had this basic economic document with you. Let us now consider the question of the appointment and release of judges. I apologize to the judges again, and I think we'll treat you more mercifully because you've waited a long time, because we couldn't stop the question that we started because you were supposed to be asked about judges at 12:30. There's a motion for decree number 7221. 22, 22 — The Choice of Judges. In connection with the adoption of the Law on the Courtship, the procedure for dealing with the matter has changed somewhat. Reporters are determined by the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges, as it relates to appointment. As far as liberation is concerned, the High Council of Justice will report, so please, I would like to invite the Head of the High Qualifications Commission of Judges Samsin Igor Leonovich to the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u46	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Let me inform you that on September 28, 2010, the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine officially started work in a newly created warehouse, in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges of July 7, 2010. On October 1 and October 5, 2010, there were working sessions of the commission to discuss 52 candidates ’ recommendations for their appointment as judges on an open-ended basis. Meetings were held in compliance with the procedures and requirements established by law. According to part three, article 76 of the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges, the Higher Qualification Commission of Judges of Ukraine carried out a review of compliance by candidates for judicial office with the requirements of article 127 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 53, 64 of that Act, and examined the referral of citizens, public organisations, enterprises, institutions, organizations of all forms of property, public authorities and local self-government authorities to the activities of candidates for the posts of judges who came to the Higher Qualification Commission of judges of Ukraine at the time of the Commission's consideration of the issue of recommending a judge. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 27, of the first article of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 78, and the Law of Ukraine on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, the submission of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine and its decisions on recommending candidates for judges on an indefinite basis. The Supreme Court of Ukraine on civil and criminal matters by Fesenko Leonida Ivanovich. Donetsk’s Administrative Court of Appeal, Jakovenko Mikolaiovich. The Kyiv Court of Appeal.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u47	Igor Leonovich, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, I call your attention again, you listen to the names, if there are any remarks to any judges, nominees, you let me know. Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u48	Odessa’s Administrative Court of Appeal, Zaporozhye Domitr Valeriyovich. Kyiv’s Court of Appeal Condratov Irina Dmitrovna Zhelik Maksim Borisovich, of the Lviv Economic Court of Appeal
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u49	There's a note on Jell-O. All right, let's keep going, let's keep going.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u50	Mohilev-Podil District Court of the Viennese Region of Cibulski Oleg Evgenovich. The Red Guard District Court of Dnipropetrovska Dubijanska Tetjana Alexandrovna Yasinauth’s Regional Court of Donetsk, Montenegro, Sergio Vasilovich The Kalu District Court of Ivano-Frankiv, Kardash Alexander Ivanovna. Poltava District Court of Poltava, Kindjak Igor Stepanović
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u51	On Kindiaq? Yes, there is.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u52	The Kyiv District Court of Poltava, Udrinsk Tetjana Volodymyrovna; The Lozov District Court of the Kharkiv District of Tkachenka Alexander Anatoliyovich
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u53	There's a note in the Tuck. Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u54	The Bojka Aleksandra Vasilovich, Ribak Ivan Alexiyovich, District Court of Vosiiow.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u55	There's a note in the Rybak.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u56	Darnicki District Court of Kiev Music Svetlana Grigorovna Righteous District Court of Kiev Panchenko Oksana Mikolayevna ; Delilah District Court of Kiev
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u57	Panchenko observed.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u58	Delilah District Court of Kiev Zubtza Yuri Grigorovich
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u59	Teeth, notes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u60	Dnipropetrov County Administrative Court Sly Angelina Victorian. The Zacarpathian District Administrative Court of Wiczak Olenna Olegovna. It's a detour.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u61	There's a big guy.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u62	The Sanhedrin District Administrative Court of Szczerbak Andrija Anatoliyovich; Odessa District Administrative Court Levchuk Olen Anatoliyevna; Kharkiv District Administrative Court of Marienko Larissa Mikhailovna
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u63	Marienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u64	The District Administrative Court of Kiev, Keleberd Vladimir Ivanovich; The district administrative court of Sevastopol, Gavur Olga Volodymyrna. The Lord's Court of the Dnipropetrov district of Makka Hennady Valeriyovich
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u65	Ma'am, there's a note.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u66	The master court of the Kyiv district of Carpecín Taras Petrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u67	There's a note.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u68	Bortnik Olga Yuriyovna, Pazichev Vladimir Mikolaiovich, Lord Court of the Lviv Region Previously elected Judges: Alimenka Volodymira
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u69	Wait, wait, please don't hurry. I gave you my word on Order 7222. Stop. Yes, Your Honor, I shall now put to the vote Order number 7222, with the exception of the following candidates: Zeljik Maksim Borisovich of the Lviv Economic Court of Appeal; Poltava District Court of Poltava, Kindjak Igor Stepanović; The Lozov District Court of the Kharkiv District of Tkachenka Alexander Anatoliyovich; The Bologna District Court of Kyiv Ribak, by John Alexiyovich; The right-wing district court of Kyiv Panchenko Oksana Mikolayivna; Delilian District Court of Kiev Zubtza Yuri Grigorovich; The Zacarpathian District Administrative Court of Szczecak Olena Olegovna; The Kharkiv District Administrative Court of Marienko Larissa Mikhailovna; the Economic Court of the Dnipropetrov region of Manka Hennady Valeriyovich; and the court-martial of the Kyiv district of Carpeckin Taras Petrovich. Except for these. Music, Darnicki. And the music of Svetlana Grigorovna Darnicki District Court of Kiev. With the exception of these candidates, I am voting on the proposal to elect judges on an indefinite basis, the registration number of Decree 7222. Please vote. [[16:56:29]] For the 320. It's been decided. Now we are moving on to the subject of specific individuals. What about Philippe? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u70	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I just want to remind you that under the new Judicial Act, the status of the judges that we have adopted, we have no right to take out the individual judges now. The law forbids that. We must vote on all the judges read by the head of the High Qualifying Commission. And that's not my statement, that's the requirement of the law. This is a requirement of the Venice Commission, which we supported in implementing this law. And this refers to the last resolution of PARJA, where we are also referred to, in support of the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, to make it impossible for the Supreme Council and individual deputies to influence judges, which is the effect on judges when judges are removed from the vote. That's why I'm asking you to put all the judges who have just been voted out. One more ballot and a vote for them. There is a decision of the High Qualifying Commission and there is a rule of law, Adam Ivanovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u71	Thank you. Let's take it easy. I'm going to read you a rule of law that you don't talk about a little bit, because the 79th article of the Judicial Act and the Status of Judges, the sixth part of it says, "In the event of a failure to obtain a judge's seat, the number of votes marked in part four of this article, i.e. 226, shall be re-voted." That's how they won't get it, we'll vote again. But if we follow your logic, let's make changes to the Constitution, let's say the Supreme Council doesn't appoint judges. We are not, as it were, simply obliged to vote on what we are being carried. No, not obliged. We are obliged to vote as we consider it necessary. Every national MP is free in his will. And so once again, now we're going to vote on each and every one of the judges to whom there are observations. Don't get votes. We'll go back. We're not going to get another look at the High Qualifying Commission, the comments that we're going to make, they're going to look again, and they're going to go back to the Supreme Council with this proposal. Because if we treat it the way you do, then we don't have to listen to it. Why do we have to automatically confirm everything they bring us? Show me the Constitution. Yes, please, the Lviv Court of Appeal – Željik Maksim Borisovich. There was a note at the school. What are your comments?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u72	Thank you. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Thank you, first of all, for your performance, first of all. The comments are simple and understandable. Simple and understandable. The mayor of Lvov Sadov to the Committee on Organised Corruption and Crime, the fight against organized crime and the corruption of the Kaletnik on the existence of any grounds for freeing the judge of the Land Court of Lviv district from office for violating an oath. I wonder how, whether or not you've got it figured out? What is the matter, and what is the situation? Because when it comes to questions like this, it's not small, it's small, it's minor, but when the Supreme Council Committee, the mayor of the city, that is, it's a directly chosen person, is asking the question of depriving the judge of his office for violating the oath, we have now to vote so blindly. I just want to hear what the motivations were, what happened, what your motivations were to make this candidacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u73	Igor Leonovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u74	That was the subject of consideration by the Higher Qualifications Commission. I report that a member of the High Council of Justice has carried out a review of the information presented in the address of the Supreme Council Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, in the interests of the Lviv City Head of the Garden and in the address of the Supreme Council Committee on Justice of Kiwalov Sergija Vasilovich on the verification of violations of the laws of the judge of the Landing Court of Želik. On February 16, 2010, the Supreme Council of Justice approved the results of the review, and there were no grounds for the dismissal of the judge for violating the oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u75	Yes, we received an explanation. It's all clear. I am voting on the proposal to elect an uninterrupted judge of the Lviv Farm Court of Appeal, Željik Maksim Borisovich. Please vote. [[17:01:34]] For 266 Decision taken. Yes, the observation of Kindjak Igor Stepanovich, the Poltava District Court of Poltava District, has anyone. Carmine microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u76	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, you are absolutely right when you quoted article 85, paragraph 27, of the election of judges refers to the competence of the Supreme Council. With regard to article 89 of the Constitution, a part of her friend says that committees are preparing and reviewing issues relating to the powers of the Supreme Council. This is the 1996 Constitution. I quote for those who don't understand. This means that the Constitution has a higher power over laws if they are not adopted and advantageous to someone or not. I raised my hand as the first deputy chairman of the committee because I have a question to question the High Council of Justice, in which there is a complaint about the actions of this judge. What are the results of this consideration, and can you say that it is complete so that we are ready to consider today, or not? Unless it's finished.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u77	Let's do it a little differently. Yuri Anatoliyovich, what do you have to say about Igor Stepanovich Kindyak? Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u78	Dear Adam Ivanovich, George Carmazin, I personally do not know this man or see him. I have a question to ask the head of the High Council of Justice, because the committee had information that there were complaints and parts of the complaints that I called them, our committee itself directed them to the High Council of Justice, or to the Council of Judges, or to other institutions. And that's why, by choosing them, I saw that there were these complaints about him. I beg you, there is the head of the High Council of Justice present, let him give us an answer, otherwise we will put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u79	But you know, he has to give the head of the High Council of Justice, but it's not his jurisdiction. I'll tell you why. Because according to the Law on Courtship, the appointment of judges is reported by the head of the Higher Qualifications Commission, and the question of the dismissal of judges is reported by the head of the High Council of Justice. So please, Igor Leonovich will answer for Kindjak Igor Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u80	Honorable Yuri Anatoliyovich, Kindjak Igor Stepanovich, for the information of the High Council of Justice, who came to the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine on September 28, this year, was not offered to release the judge from office for breach of oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u81	Please, Koleschenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that on September 30, 2010, the High Council of Justice came to the Council of Justice to complain about illegal acts and the injustice of judges in the city of Poltava in relation to the pensioner-ordinaire and the veteran of the work of violating human rights in a fair and reasonable manner. According to this letter, well, the abuse of man. But we're running a background check. And we can't now tell what the results of the test will be. I don't rule out a month from now we're going to make an offer to release this judge for breaking his oath. So there's a problem here that we're actually transferring today's consideration of the issues that were on the committee to a meeting of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u83	Yes, the one thing we're going to do is we're going to do it. We listened, we listened to the arguments of the parties. I'm voting, I'm voting on a motion to elect an untimely judge of the Poltava District Court of the Kindyak Igor Stepanović district. Please vote. [[17:06:01]] For 249 Decision taken. Yes, who had any comments on the Tweak Alexander Anatolyovich? Also Carmazine. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u84	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Of course, I am surprised by such a consideration. I think we're going to be surprised and our citizens of Ukraine today are going to happen in the state when the Head of the High Council of Justice, the body authorized to deal with these issues, is being eliminated as the entire Supreme Council of Justice is being removed from consideration of these issues. I'm not talking about the committee anymore. With regard to Judge Tkachenka, there is a appeal at the examination of the High Council of Justice, National Deputy Chechtov Mikhail Vasilovich, concerning the actions of this judge of the Lozov District Court of Kharkiv. As far as I can tell, it hasn't been tested yet. At least it wasn't checked yesterday. I'd like to make it clear to us, Mr. Koleschenko, as Head of the High Council of Justice. Checked or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u85	Yes, please, Koleschenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u86	September 25, by Timoshenko’s lawyer, Vladimir Mikolaiovich, arrived. It was addressed to the Chechtov deputy. And came to the High Council of Justice on the 27th. I don't know what the result is.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u87	Please, Igor Leonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u88	That's the thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u89	Wait. Dear colleagues, I hear you're listening to me. Why don't you want to hear me? Please, Igor Leonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, I have stressed in my brief statement that we are checking the petitions, the citizens' complaints that came at the time of the High Qualifying Commission. If they're after, we're not. All the information we had about judges was tested by the Higher Qualifying Commission. I assure you, she's been carefully checked. We asked questions, we checked, we examined materials, we needed materials, we had information from the heads of the courts where the judge works.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u91	Please, Chechetov. Chechtov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u92	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected Yuri Anatolievich, we know how sometimes, in order to deceive an honest person, a telegae is written on the National Deputy and the People's Deputy does not know that he simply wrote a letter further to verify, although it is done to force an illegal decision to be made in his favor by a method of lying, a method of deception, and so on. Therefore, I think we will do absolutely the right thing, if we vote now, we will confirm, and further, if there are any questions, please, we can, as we have said, remove them. But now, again, I repeat, I was purely automatic, there was a reaction, I wrote a letter, I took it, I sent it by instance, although I had several times when an honest person was compromised in order to change his position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u93	Dear colleagues, I think it's clear that each of us has a bag of letters, and we react by sending it to the authorities that have the opportunity to verify it. So Chechchev's last name doesn't need to be mentioned here. Koleschenko said they hadn't checked the complaint yet. I am voting on the proposal to elect an untimely judge of the Lozov District Court of Kharkiv, Lozovsky, Tkachenka Alexandra Anatoliyovich. Please vote. [[17:10:28]] For 251 Decision taken. Please, the Bologna District Court of Ribak Ivan Alexiyovich. Who made the remark? Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u94	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, you and I always adhere to the practice that every body, the constitutional body, has the right to act. In this regard, therefore, the judge at the Registry of the High Council of Justice is registered, sent by our Committee on Justice of the Complaint. I don't know how it's being considered right now by the High Council of Justice. Of course, she wasn't famous, and there's no claim to Samsin, but I'm informing you that our committee was directed, received and directed. And I, you know, when you're talking to people, we're talking, there's those bodies that are checking, it's our responsibility to put things right there. It is my duty to tell you what it is. There is Koleschenko, the head of the High Council of Justice, who is responsible for the constitutional body, whether it reports that there is a test of results or not. I think we should put off those that aren't checked at this point.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u95	Yes, please, Koleschenka, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u96	On August 31, a complaint came to the address of the High Council of Justice. This complaint came from various institutions: the President, the Anti-Corruption Committee, and so forth. This is a production association called the Kiev Radio Plant, which considers that corruption has been committed in relation to this enterprise by a judge. I've opened up a lead on the case, assigned a background check. This means that of the materials we now have before the end of the test, there are grounds for breaking the oath by that judge. The check is not complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u97	Thank you. What is the opinion of the High Qualifying Commission?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u98	Well, I want to say that again. We had information that on September 28, this year, there were no proposals to release the judge for violating the oath. So we made decisions and recommended them when we had these materials that we had, researched, decided, looked at the quality of the work and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u99	Dear colleagues, they wanted it as good as ever. Because, look, the two authorities responsible for the situation are speaking quite correctly. And you and I need to be clear. I see there is a need to discuss the situation. Please sign up after one minute. Yes, Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u100	Yuri Carmazin. Dear national deputies, dear Adam Ivanovich! Obviously, under such circumstances, our practice has not yet formed with you. I have absolutely no claim to Samsin, and I don't have it in his body. They did their work conscientiously. But there are cases that are out of the question. When the head of the Justice Council tells us that on this subject openly, forgive me, this is the basis for us to suspend these jobs from the appointment of this judge, so that the MPs get information, if these reasons are still there, do you understand? Let them fall away - then there will be no obstacles to the appointment of a person for life. You and I need to understand that a career assignment is serious. And you can't go around and around. So I think we need to shape that practice somehow, Adam Ivanovich. I know it's hard, but the Constitution requires it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u101	School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u102	Actually, I want to support a colleague that, under the circumstances that the investigation is taking place, on the condition that, in the case of conduct, you suggest, Your Honorable Reporter, that you now vote, give the statutes a living, and then, when it turns out that a person is not really supposed to be a judge, we'll go back to the session room and talk about you from the rostrum or anyone else, say, you know, investigate these circumstances and have to go back to the vote and film the judge. I think just by the logic of going, let the process finish, and then we'll see the result. Because it's no longer possible to humiliate the Supreme Council to that level. It was suggested that we should vote with our eyes closed in general, and there is an even better situation: why do we have to work it out, vote first, and then figure it out. So let's do it this way and we can do it the way we do it. Let's just say it's not everyone's fault, and we'll see. I don't think we have the right to do that here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u103	Gordien Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u104	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! I'd like to point out that, first of all, whoever's making the proposals for specific judges, I'd like to remind him that these drafts are the decisions that the committee is making, and he should be looking at it on the committee, because we see that he is the author. And don't ask those questions. Next. According to the practice that if such complaints came, the deadline for their consideration was about two months. And we know there's a practice that if the court didn't end the trial or the complaint, they wouldn't. That's question number two. And the third. Both the presiding officer and others were on the stand, referring to the Venice Commission. So I'm addressing you, your honors, let's take a double approach, because I'm going to remind you of some of the Polish judges you voted here in this room, forgetting about the Venice Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u105	Please, Bondik Valerius.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u106	Dear colleagues, first of all, we are already in violation of the Rules. And secondly, the head of the High Qualifying Commission is right, and the head of the High Council of Justice. First of all, there's a presumption of innocence. We are with you, in accordance with the Constitution and the conclusions of the Constitutional Court of Parliament and of the Committee, the supervisory functions, not the resolution functions. So with any deputy, if you have any comments, please send Samsina Igor Leonovich in writing to the Higher Qualifications Committee, they'll handle it. And second of all, it's not a lively observation, it's a timeless choice. And according to this judge's presumption of innocence, if the Higher Qualifying Commission concludes, we're here with you according to the defendant's verdict, then we'll be deciding the fate of the judge, and now we don't have any functions other than reviewers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u107	It's from the non-fractionals, Filipenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u108	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I would like us to be guided, not by emotion, but by the law. And the law clearly spells out to us if the Higher Qualifying Commission examines the judge and finds no reason not to put us in the hall for approval, we should vote. If the High Council of Justice, or a member of the High Council of Justice, is being tested on the basis of which a recommendation may be made on discharge, or may not be recommended by this judge for dismissal, it will be later, after we have voted in favour of this judge. If there is such a proposal, it will report to the interviewee from the rostrum and the Supreme Council will determine whether or not to release it, but so far there is no such proposal and there is no legal prohibition against voting on this judge now. So once again, I urge you to follow the law that you and I have passed and voted on. There'll be a release proposal, we'll lay off if it's for what. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u109	To be governed by the law, but the law states that this is governed by the law and the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, so we are governed by the Supreme Council's Rules, so please let's do it. Moses, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u110	Vladimir Moisik, Party “For Ukraine!” Dear Adam Ivanovich! You're right. You just noticed it started. Two authorities in the judiciary, one High-Skilling Commission of Judges has the right to serve as judges, and the Superior Council of Justice has the right to engage in the release and punishment of judges. And here's the first step: benefis. I believe that the Higher Qualifying Commission operates within its mandate and we do not need to act on the principle of a Gypsy who gives ten bracelets to a child in a store and beats him in advance so that the child does not lose the money. Let's finish today with the election, there's going to be a claim against the High Council of Justice to the judge, we're going to punish the judge, or we're going to encourage. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u111	Right. We've practically exchanged ideas that we have no reason not to put Ribak's candidate, Ivan Alexiyovich, on the spotless election of the judge of the Gaussian District Court of Kiev. I'll put this motion to the vote. [[17:20:25]] For 222 The decision is not taken. Attention to Svetlana's Music Gregory, who had it? Carmazine, please. We'll be back. The law allows us to return.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u112	Yuri Carmazin. Believe me, I haven't seen Music, I don't know what it looks like, but on the committee there's data on it, I just want to let you know that the committee didn't consider anything before, in this case I didn't make any decisions. I'm the one who said something. Orders have been changed, and that's why we've become a hostage to this order, and the law is completely out of the question. And no claim to the Higher Qualifying Commission I don't make in this case, sometimes it does, but I can honestly say, I don't have those claims right now. That's why I have the data that the Higher Council of Justice is conducting a check or an open introduction, and I think we're going to hear this about breaking an oath by that judge or that judge, I'm sorry. That's why I'd like to hear the answer, because that's what happened, to see that we passed the disadvantage in the law, we have to do it now.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u113	Please, go round again. Cradle boy.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u114	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the High Council of Justice on 20 February 2008 has been denied acceptance of the appeal of Justice Minister Lavrinović on the decision of the General Court's Qualifications Committee. an appeal to the district about refusing to bring disciplinary responsibility to the judge. And June 24, 2010.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u115	Excuse me, Vladimir Mikolaiovich. Svetlana Grigorovna's music, Darnicki District Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u116	Music. The members of the High Council of Justice are being tested for the information presented in the address of the representative of the DPA team of the Kiev Radio Plant, which I have already reported on. One of the members of the High Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u117	Well, it's the same position of the Higher Qualifying that they didn't have at the time. I am voting on the proposal to elect an untimely judge of the Darnitsky District Court of Kiev, Svetlana Grigorovna. Please vote. [[17:22:58]] For 231 Decision taken. Wait, wait. Yes, the Righteous District Court of Kiev, Panchenko Oksana Mikolayevna. Carmazine, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u118	There's information on the committee that Panchenko and I don't have this complaint closed and we don't get an answer from the High Council of Justice. This now raises a question, or is it not, because it is a fresh appeal, June 24, which was directed. And what the results of the test, I don't know, Samsin says they didn't have a condition for September. Yeah? I don't know if there's a Wheelbarrow, I've got a question for Wheelbarrow, and then I've got a judge. And I'd like to make a little remark, Adam Ivanovich, not of course. And one of our colleagues said about the presumption of non-criminality in the criminal sense of that word. I'd like to say that the presumption of non-criminality differs from the presumption of non-criminality in terms of breach of the judge's oath, that's slightly different. That's why I get it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u119	Where there are two lawyers, there are always three right thoughts. Please, Vladimir Mikolaiovich. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u120	There is no basis for a violation of the court’s conduct; the check is closed.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u121	There is no suspicion, so I'm voting for the termless election of the judge of the Righteous District Court of Kiev, Panchenko Oksana Mikolayovna. Please vote. [[17:25:08]] For 263 Decision taken. The Podil District Court is the Teeth of Yuri Grigorovich. Who had the notes? Yuri Anatolyevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u122	Again, Yuri Carmazin. I don't know what he looks like, but I'd like to find out the results of a review by the High Council of Justice on the existence of grounds for dismissal for a violation of an oath. If these reasons are established or not, let them say the results. At least I can say that for a long time, complaints were being investigated and she was not alone. So I have a question for the High Council of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u123	Please, Vladimir Mikolaiovich, po.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u124	There is no basis for the release of the judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u125	Yes. I am voting on the proposal to elect an untimely judge of the district court of Kiev Zubtza Yuri Grigorovich. Please vote. [[17:26:26]] For 279 Decision taken. The Zacarpathian district administration is the Greater Olenna Olegovna. Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u126	Yuri Carmazin. The Justice Committee has sent an appeal to the judge of the Zakartat District Administration. The court of Wiczakov. We haven't made up our minds yet. And that's what we sent on September 27, 2010 to the top of our class. The judges' commission is an appeal. What is in the Supreme Council of Justice, I don't know, but there was also an appeal. So I've got a question for two of these officers today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u127	Thank you. We'll turn to him, too. Vladimir Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u128	Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! I want to inform you that the procedure for examinations at the High Council of Justice has certain features. If the conduct of the case is not closed but is meant to be, there is still an appeal and a cassation order, we cannot intervene and make a decision on the matter. So I think that the proposals that the Supreme Council of Justice is not an obstacle to this issue in the Supreme Council, and if there are grounds for liberation, we will bring them in, and I will also inform you of the need for this judge's release. Because we're going to, if we push it, they're going to get the money without going to court, and it's going to pull, well, it's not going to be entirely true.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u129	Vladimir Mikolaiovich, you speak correctly, but give a clear answer to the question. Is the matter under consideration, or is it a closed case?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u130	Major's test results are still missing.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u131	Oh, that makes sense. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u132	The case lies in the conduct of the Lviv Court of Appeal. We checked these circumstances.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u133	I mean, it's not just the High Council of Justice, it's the Higher Qualifying Commission, it's the case that's on trial even in one of the courts. Taking this information into account, I am voting on the proposal to elect an untimely judge of the Zacarpathian District Administrative Court of the Greater Helena of Olegna. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:29:03]] For 237 A decision has been made. Yes, Kharkiv County Administration. Marienko Larissa Mikhailovna Also Carmazine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u134	Yuri Carmazin. I also do not know who Marienko is, but the Supreme Council of Justice considered a case involving the actions of Judge Kharkiv District Administrative Court Marienko in the application of sanctions related to the ban on the organization of gambling in Ukraine. What consideration of the High Council of Justice I don't know. Among other things, you see, I call you dates: September 27th and so on, of course, it was after those meetings and of course it couldn't have been objectively before, let's say, we know. So given the gaps in the law, we can make up for them now. Please answer Mr. Koleschenko and.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u135	Vladimir Mikolaiovich, by Marienko
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u136	At the request of Pisarenka Volodymirovic, a member of the High Council of Justice, Portnova Andrija Volodymyrovic, a test is scheduled. No test results yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u137	That's clear. Qualifycommission is clearly not before them. I put to the vote the election of Judge Kharkiv District Administrative Court Marienko Larissa Mikhailovna. Please vote. [[17:30:46.]] For 253 Decision taken. The Lord's Court of the Dnipropetrov district of Manko Hennaday Valeriyovich. Please, Carmazine or someone else did. Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u138	Yuri Carmazin. I address myself again as the first deputy head of the committee. How do I know that according to the results of the review of the report, a proposal has been made in the application of the Skrprombank Group to accept the application for exemption from the post of judge of the court for breach of an oath. Like, what consideration of this application to the Higher Council of Justice on the Committee is unknown. I'd like Mr. Koleschenko to report on this submission. In addition to everything else, you can see that it takes a lot of time to look at and have messages on the committee, because otherwise these questions are raised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u139	Yes, please, Vladimir Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u140	On July 29, 2010, a member of the High Council of Justice, Koleszenko, made a proposal to release the judge for violating his oath. The meeting was not yet considered in connection with the fact that there was no sign of assemblage.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u141	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u142	On the five letters of violation that the judge allowed.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u143	Vladimir Mikolaiovich, if I understand correctly, is the High Council member Koleshnichenko the head of the High Council?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u144	Yes
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u145	Yes, given the information, I'm voting on the election of the Chief Justice of the Dnipropetrovsk District of Makka Hennady Valeriyovich. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:32:47]] For 218. The decision is not supported. And according to the court-martial of the Kyiv district of Carpecín Taras Petrovich. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u146	Yuri Carmazin. I'm also the first deputy head of the committee to know this man. But I'm going to report to you on the matter that he's being examined by the High Council of Justice on the existence of grounds for exemption for breach of oath. Would you like to hear the answer of the High Council of Justice: Are the facts of the breach of an oath, the implementation, or is it not violated? Let him answer and want to know what it's all about, if that's the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u147	Please, Vladimir Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u148	A member of the High Council of Justice, Bondik Valeriy Anatoliyovich, conducts a review of the violation of the oath as to whether there are grounds for the release of Judge Karpecchin. The second test is also carried out by a member of the High Council of Justice in the references of Ahundov. No test results yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u149	I see. Taking into account the information, I am voting on the proposal to elect a judge on an untimely basis from the court of the Kyiv district of Karpecín Taras Petrovic. I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:34:22]] For 253 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I will first read to you article 79 of the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of the Courts, and then we will continue our consideration of the matter. Article 79. “Review of the question and adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the decision to elect a candidate for judicial office on an indefinite basis. The procedure for the consideration and adoption of decisions by the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the election of a candidate for judicial office is laid down by this law and by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Part two. The question of the election of a candidate for a judge is dealt with on an uninterrupted basis at a plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine without the conclusion of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and any checks. Third. The consideration of the election of a candidate for a judge in the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine begins with a report by the Head of the Supreme Qualification Commission of judges of Ukraine or a member of the Supreme Qualification Commission of judges of Ukraine acting on his orders. Four. The decision to elect a judge is made by a majority of the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and is drafted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Fifth. The person elected to the post of judge shall acquire the status of judge as of the date of taking effect of the relevant decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Six. In the absence of a candidate to serve as a judge, the number of votes as defined in part four of this article shall be re-elected. So, based on the sixth part, I'm going to put once again, I'm going to put to the vote those candidates who didn't get the required number of votes. But I would like someone to give me an answer, how many times can I vote? That one time, that's exactly what the law says. How many times? In case of non-receivables, the vote is again held. I mean, I'm going to put once again the candidates who didn't get the required number of votes to vote. There's not much written there. I put to the vote the proposal to elect a judge on an untimely basis, the judge of the Gaussian District Court of Kiev, Ribaka Ivan Alexiyovich. I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:37:11]] For 231 Decision taken. And we're in the same situation as Mako Hennady Valeriyovich. I am voting on the proposal to elect the judge of the Dnipropetrovsk Economic Court of Manka Hennady Valeriyovich. I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:37:49]] For 233 Decision taken. Thus we appointed, elected, more faithfully, all the judges mentioned in the decree number 7222. But, dear colleagues, I think it would be absolutely right that in the future the two bodies that have a bearing on this situation would work better, so that, in fact, the Higher Council of Justice, the Higher Qualifications Commission would be more scrupulous to this issue, because it might be that the Higher Qualification Commission appoints judges with us, more faithfully, we'll assign judges to his submissions, and in a week or two we'll be considering the submission of the High Council of Justice on the release of these judges. And I think it's you and me and the bodies that are now looking after the appointment and release of the judges that are not going to be beautiful. So let's do it this way. Now with respect to Decree 7221-1. Let me read it, because there was still some degree of authority in the Higher Qualifications Commission. Is that what I'm saying? Yours yet? Yes, please, 7222-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u150	The Honourable Chairman, the Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 27, of the first article of the Constitution, article 128 of the Ukrainian Constitution, article 78 of the Law on the Status of Judges and the Court of First Instance of the Supreme Qualificational Commission of Judges of Ukraine, and its decision to recommend candidates for the appointment of judges on an indefinite basis. Please select judges previously elected without delay as judges: Wynnicki’s Administrative Court of Appeal Alimenk Vladimir Alexanderovich, Borovické Alexander Andriyovich, Zalimski Igor Hennadijovich, Kuzmishina Vitalija Mikolaiovich, Kurk Oleg Petrovich, Levanchuk Andrija Alexiyovich. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u151	Yes, there have been no comments to the so-called nominees regarding the election of the judges of the Wynnické Court of Appeal, so I am voting on the proposal to elect the judges listed in Order 7221-1. Please vote. [[17:40:35]] For 293 Decision taken. All the decisions? Another one? Please, which one?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u152	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! I am very grateful for the understanding that has taken place with you today. This is my first report. I think we'll continue to work together. I beg you, the door, as they say, is open to the High Qualifying Commission. I ask you to work with me so that we have less questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u153	Thank you. Thank you, Igor Leonovich. Dear colleagues, let's welcome the judges we've just appointed. [[Applause]] And once again, I apologize for holding back the deadline for thinking that we've had a bit of trouble. But if you'll excuse me, your torments were not in vain. All 100 percent went to the Supreme Council. Congratulations again. Yes, we are moving on to draft decrees related to the dismissal of judges. I invite the head of the High Council of Justice, Vladimir Mikolaiovich, to the rostrum. The draft Regulation 7223 is under consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u154	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The Supreme Council of Justice at its meetings on 6 September, 20 September and 4 October of this year, in accordance with article 126, paragraph 9, of the fifth part of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 100, 109 of the Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges, article 31 of the Law on the Higher Council of Justice, reviewed the materials on the release of judges of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the higher specialized courts, appeals and local courts from positions under general circumstances and decided to submit the relevant submission to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In all the judges, there is real will. There was no side effect or force to make decisions. The High Council of Justice proposes to resign from office. Draft Decision: “Recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to resign: Judges of the Supreme Court: Mr. Andrija Vasilovic, Mr. Karpečín Petra Feofanović, Mr. Konovalova Vladimir Mikolaiovich, Kosenka Vasil Josipovich, Kostenka Anatolia Vasilovich, Kravchenka Kostintina Timofijovich, Lavrenyuk Mikola Yuhimovic, Panevina Viktor Aleksandrovič, Prokopčuk Yuri Volodirovich, Sinawiak Oleksija Grigorovich, Fedchenka Alexandr Stepanović, Filatova Vasila Mikolajovic, Černoguza Fedor Fedorovich. The draft decrees have, there is, and our submission is relative to Shevchenko Tetjana Valentinovna. I have just received a statement from the assistants from Shevchenko that “in connection with family and personal circumstances, I ask that I postpone consideration of my resignation to the next plenary week. 07.10.2010."
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u155	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u156	Next. Stanislav Alexiyovich’s spine. The Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine – Brik Anatoly Ivanovich, Turin Mikola Ivanovich, Kravchenko Olga Alexandrovna, Panchenka Aleksandra Nikiforovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u157	I'm sorry. Let's do it a little differently. I don't know what you're giving me. I don't know, and I don't want to be brothers right now, because that's not appropriate. It's not good yet. I'm not ruling out that we're going to go back to this, but I gave you my word for Order 7223 on the release of judges. Dismissing the Supreme Court's judges is an Eminence and so forth.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u158	I've read it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u159	You read that, didn't you? Then. But here's a list you haven't been able to read.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u160	I read to the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u161	Ah, you've read it to the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u162	And now they're the seniors.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u163	Okay, I'm sorry. Excuse me, Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, because I'm a little bit here.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u164	I'm going on. The Supreme Administrative Court – Bryka Anatolia Ivanovich, Gurina Mikola Ivanovich, Kravchenko Olga Alexandrovna, Panchenka Aleksandra Nikiforovich. The Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine – Olijanik Vladimir Fedorović, Chaban Vladimir Volodymyrovic. The Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea — Terentiev Nina Mikolayevna The Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrov region – Dudine Ludmila Petrovna, Lazyvanka Alexandr Vitaliovich, Moskalz Petr Petrovich. The Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region – Babenka Petra Mihajlovich, Golubinska Anatolia Mihajlovich, Dhachenka Valerija Mikolaiovich, Ignatova Ludmila Yegorovna, Kondratiev Olen Mikolayovna, Masla Valentina Ustimovich, Molčanova Stanislava Ivanovich, Novodsk Olen Ivanovna, Paskova Vladimir Yakovič, Ribalko Lidija Ivanovna, Stelma Natalija Sergiyovna, Stratila Volodymira Ivanovic, Topalva Valentina Volodymirirovna, Trushkova Mikol Mikhalovich, Shabanov Valentina Alexandrovna, Shamrilo Ludmila Gavrilovna. Court of Appeal of the District of Žitomir: Omelchuka Mikola Ivanovich in connection with the application for resignation The Court of Appeal of Zaporozhye district of Prokopenka Oleg Leonidovich. The Court of Appeal of Ivano-Frankiv district of Bedoczko Natalia Petrovna. Court of Appeal of Luhansk Region: Ancibor Vladimir Antonovich, Vasyuk's Valentina Ivanovna, Lead's Ludmila Mikolayevna. The Court of Appeal of the District of Lviv, Yuhiminka Anatoly Grigorovich The Court of Appeal of the Mikolai district of Karpi Volodymyr Mikolaiovich Court of Appeal of Poltava Region: Newlywed Valentina Andriyevna, Orlova Natalya Fedorovna, Chernova Sergio Ivanovich The Court of Appeal of the Ternopil district of Kovalenka Eugenia Petrovich The Court of Appeal of the Kharkiv District of Vorobyov Oleg Yuriovich, Gerasimenko Petr Porfiryovich, Hrebtov Valerija Pavlovich. The Court of Appeal of the Hmelni district of Boyko Larissa Valentinovna, Zayek Viktor Mikolaiovich, Nikolayev Valentina Mikhailnovna. The Court of Appeal in the Cherkas region: Ilchenka Anatolia Mikhailovich, Kolabin's Edward Josephovich The Court of Appeal of the Chernigiv district of Jaroshenko Mikola Petrovich Kyiv’s Court of Appeal, Skavronika Viktor Mikolayovich Dniprov's Court of Appeal, Kojan Mikol Petrovich. Dnipropetrov’s Court of Appeal: Herasimenko Irina Mikolayovna, Nekles Mikola Pavlovich, Yasser Lydia Alexandrovna The impugned appeal court of Fedorov Ivan Alexiyovich. Kiev’s interdisciplinary appeals court of Stahurski Mikol Feodosijovich Luhansk’s Court of Appeal Bannov Tamar Mikhailnov, Pearl of David Yuhimovich. Lviv Court of Appeal, Gordekny Maria Ivanovna, Mazawit Bogdan Stepanović Kharkiv’s Court of Appeal of Tokar Mikli Vasilovich The Jankoj Regional Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Alexander Anatoliyyovich, in connection with the application for a state of health, which prevents the continuation of the duties. The Kyiv District Court of Sevastopol Chumachenko Raís Dmitrovna in connection with the application for a state of health. Mogilov-Podil Regional Court of the Vinnitsky district of Kotov, Ivan Vitaliyovich, in connection with the application for resignation. Kovelov, Regional Court of Volin, Navaly Andrija Danilovich, in the state of health. Artemov City Court of Donetsk Region: Divine Vladimir Petrovich, Yegurnov Nina Alexiyevna, Klanocchina Alexander Volodymyrovich, Kushnar's Valentine Andriyevna, Protas' Margarita Vitaliyevna. Novoazov District Court of the Donetsk Region of Popec Volodymyr Kuprijanović, in the state of health By the district court of Donecka Rebrova Sergija Alexiyovich Vorosilov District Court of Donetsk Ivasuru Viktor Alexiyovich The Kirov district court of Donetsk, Saint Larissa Valeriyovna. The mining district court of Makiyevka Donetsk district of Miroshnick Mikol Andryovich Melitopol, District Court of Zaporozhye District, Yarosenko Svetlana, Sergiyevna Priazova District Court of Zaporozhye District Zivlakov Hanna Alexiyevna Tokmat District Court of Zaporozhye district of Apanaskovich Nadia Mikolayevna Zaporozhye Fedorenko Roman Grigorovich, district court of Zaporozhye Ivano-Frankiv city court of Ivano-Frankiv district of Maleev Andrija Yuriovich. Fastew’s Regional Court of Kiev, Iwasishin Volodymyr Petrovich. Kirovograd district court of Kirovograd district of Krichuna Anatolia Alexiyovich. Alexandri District Court of Kirovograd, Gorbunov Vladislav Grigorovich, Filonenko Svetlana Alexiyevna Alchev City Court of Lugansk district of Guk Viktor Sergiyovich Prevali district court of Luhansk district Simonek Vladimir Ivanovich Sverdlov City Court of Luhansk, Ivaszczenka Viacheslav Mikolaiovich. Stahanov City Court of Luhansk, Gubrienk Anatoly Ivanovich, Zinchenko Leonid Mikolaiovich; Galician District Court of Lviv Stefanyuk Bogdan Romanović; The ship's circuit court of Mikolayeva Corzun Galina Opanasovna; The Plain City Court of the province of Bokia Viktor Juriovich; Shoskin City Court of Suma district of Soldatkin Sergey Grigorovich; The Krasnokut District Court of Kharkiv Region of Mordovenko Viktor Ivanovich; The Haerson District Court of Sorocan Yuri Olegovich; Tanów District Court of the Cherka district of Tkachenka Alexander Mikolaiovich; Ummansk City Court of Cherkas Okretinov Vadim Anatoliyovich and Smilian Andrija Pavlovich; The Deep District Court of Chernivecko, Herasimenko Nadia Ivanovna; The Balaklav District Court of Sevastopol, Bulgaria, Tetjana Ivanovna; Odessa District Administrative Court Hlustin Jury Mihajlovich; The Lord's Court of the Dnipropetrov district of Shevchenko Svetlana Lukovna; The master court of the Suma district of Rizkov Mikola Borisovich; The Lord's Court of the Hersonian Region of Litvina Hanna Prokopovna; The House Court of the Hmelni district of Balak Nina Alexandrovna I want to speak to you immediately, Adam Ivanovich, about three statements, a telegram and so on, saying that the three judges are: Rebrow Sergey Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u165	Wait, wait, please. We've considered what we have in the draft decree. Yeah, any questions? Please sign in. Yeah, come on, five minutes. Gordine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u166	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. The Honourable Reporter, certainly the Ukrainian Parliament and all Ukrainian citizens have never seen such a mass judge before, if you say so in Russian, the outcome when everyone leaves the courts. I have a question: aren't these courts being cleared for specific purposes? And we see that from one trial, all the judges are being released. Do these judgments remain effective at all? What is the reason for this question?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u167	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say the following on this matter. That according to the new Law on Courtship and the Status of Judges, that is, after July 30, material was available to the High Council of Justice on layoffs under general circumstances three times as many references as was previously recorded in statistics. This is explained to the following. According to article 136 of the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, a judge who resigned from the original non-tax assistance of 10 months' wages at the end of his term of office is entitled to pay. As far as the law is concerned. which has been and will be in operation until January 1, 2011, such relief is determined by the amount of monthly earnings at the end of each full - time job: 30, 34 years. And so it turns out that if he resigns by January 1st, he's going to get 300,000 or a little less. And when he retires after January 1, 2011. I think it's first of all.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u168	Bondik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u169	Honorable Presidium, Honorable Reporter. I have an official, Adam Ivanovich, and I have to officially report that a telegram has come to the Justice Committee and I ask you to exclude from the draft decree – Judge Herasimenko Irina Mikolayevna writes that I am withdrawing my application in connection with a man's grave condition. That's the first one. And a second. She's on the committee. And a second statement from Judge Rebrov. I'm calling off my application and I'm asking you not to release me. The application is self-contained. The signature is Rebrow. So from the draft decree, please delete Rebrow and Gerasimenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u170	Yes, Volodymyr Mikolaiovich. What's that? And Shevchenko. So come on, let's do it now. Chewchenko, who's the judge?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u171	Shevchenko is the judge of the Supreme Court. Chewchenko Tetjana Valentinovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u172	Yes. Who else?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u173	Now Rebrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u174	Quiet, quiet. Please, which one?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u175	Herasimenko Irina Mikolayevna is the Dnipropetroval Court of Appeal.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u176	Dnipropetrovski. Herasimenko is a day of propetrov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u177	Yeah. Herasimenko Irina Mikolayevna. And the third Rebrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u178	Now, now. Wait. Dnipropetrovski who? Master's?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u179	Yeah, it's a farm. Here he is, Dnipropetrovsky is going to the administrative appeals, and there's an extension, there's been an error in your text.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u180	The Court of Appeal of Propetrov. Now. I'm sorry, we have a little bit of this. I have to make a note. Yes, Herasimenko Irina, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u181	Yeah. And Rebrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u182	Herasimenko and.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u183	Rebrow. This is the Byloonov district court of Donetsk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u184	Yes, ribs, ribs, ribs. Yes. Bilion’s District Court
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u185	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u186	Yes, Moses, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u187	Vladimir Moisik, MP and Party “For Ukraine!” Dear Adam Ivanovich, your honorary colleagues, indeed, I have been addressed by the judge of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, Shevchenko Tetjana Valentinovna, with a statement addressed to you by the head of the High Council of Justice, Vladimir Mikolaiovich Kolesnichenko. But I'd like to make another point. Of course, it would be simplistic to consider the reason for the mass release of judges merely to receive their initial reward after the judicial work. Judges, especially the Supreme Court of Ukraine, are concerned about the state of such reform when the Supreme Court itself was eliminated as a judicial body. Judges of the Supreme Court of Ukraine may work either in the Mankow Court or in the Lugansk District Court or in the Higher Court where they are offered and where no one will want them. So I want to say to my fellow deputies. Those 15 judges who get fired from the Supreme Court are judges, not by their names, but by their great names. Unlike the ones we chose here to the Higher Or.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u188	Right. Knyazevich, please. Keep it going, Moses, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u189	Please give Moses a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u190	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u191	Thank you, Ruslan. Unlike those judges whom we have elected to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine and, unfortunately, those judges who have not moved even, I think, physically to their homes in Kiev, to their offices of employment in the Constitutional Court have made such an important decision without reading any of the decisions they have made before. So I thank you for listening and I ask you to support Judge Shevchenko's statement to Valentina.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u192	Clearly, that was not a question. Cibenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u193	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, there is one wish for the future. Now, when you were presenting the judges' statements right now, you were talking about that you were making a decision voluntarily, that there was no coercion, pressure, or outside influence. I'd be very happy if that were true, but it's a very bold statement. It can use a softer form: it is not installed. And it's not really installed, because there really wasn't, well, who knows. That "not set" is a more democratic form.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u194	Thank you. The point is that by procedure, if a judge writes a statement, he points out that there was no foreign influence on him. And we're getting out of our own manual statement and we think it's his will.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u195	Yes, the questions have come to an end. Please, before the Karmazin vote, and we will vote. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u196	Yuri Carmazin. It is certainly not an easy situation for honourable national deputies. And Vladimir Mikolaiovich in connection with this ruling that we are about to vote, even without these three judges, we still have no such practice in the work of the Supreme Council when we release 120 judges at one time.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u197	118.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u198	118 judges, negative 3, 115 judges. That's not what we've had in practice. I'm very sad because I know most of these judges and the Supreme Court, they're decent serious people. I have a question to consider together: both the High Council of Justice, both the Government, and the Committee, and the entire Supreme Council. Now the question is, what will happen to those complaints about the cases before the Supreme Court? It's going to go back to complaining here, to the Supreme Council, about MPs who can't really do that. And you and I are going to answer something to the people. Because people's rights are getting worse.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u199	I see. If it were the Chief Justice, we could ask that question. And that's a little bit different, it's going to be considered by specialized courts, which are going to be formed soon. Thus, my honourable colleagues, I am putting to the vote Order No. 7223 “On the release of judges”, with the exception of last names, with the exception of the name: Shevchenko Tetjana Valentinovna, Judge of the Supreme Court of Ukraine; Herasimenko Irina Mikolayovna, Judge of the Dnipropetrovski Court of Appeal, and Rebova Sergija Alexiyovič, District Court of Bionov, Donetsk. With the exception of these three names, please support Order 7223 on the release of judges. [[18:00:51]] For 270. Decision taken. Please, Vladimir Mikolaiovich, 7223-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u200	The Supreme Council of Justice, at its meeting, accepted the application for the release of Villgus Vitaliy Alexiyovich from the office of Judge Hmelnickýk, of the Hmielnyk District Court of Winnitsk in connection with the acquisition of the legal force of the indictment against him.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m1.u201	Yes, dear fellows! I'm going on for 15 minutes to finish the question. Order 7223-1 on the release of the judge of the District Court of Hmillnick in connection with the acquisition of legal force by an arraignment against him. No objections, questions? I'm betting on the vote. Order number 7223-1. Please vote. [[18:01:55]] For 275 Decision taken. All right, Vladimir Mikolaiovich, thank you. Dear colleagues, we've worked hard with you, and there's an offer to consider one more question in one minute. I propose to include in the agenda of the day's session a bill under number 7199 the Act of Ukraine amending the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in order to bring it to the rules of the Constitution. Please vote. [[18:02:44]] For 237 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we will unfortunately no longer be able to consider other matters. I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council closed. Tomorrow we start work at 10 o'clock.
