ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:21]] Cards were registered in the 412 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, on February 26, 2010, the Central Election Commission registered the National Deputy of Ukraine, who was elected on September 30, 2007, in the multi-mandatory national constituency of Yegorenko Tamar Vasilovna, who was included in the electoral list of the Party of the Regions. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Jegorenko Tamara Vasilovna, is invited to make an oath to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u2	I, Jegorenko Tamara Vasilovna, pledge allegiance to Ukraine, pledge all my actions to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence, to ensure the welfare of Ukraine’s homeland and well - being. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, welcome Tamara Vasilovna. [[Applause]] Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” and article 59 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I report the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Matchuk Viktor Josephovich, into the membership of the deputy faction “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome our colleagues, the Leščinsky Alexander Olegovich and the Seminogue Anatolia Ivanovich, with their birthday. And wish them good health, all kinds of success. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I give you an overview of the plenary work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from 16 to 19 February 2010. There were six plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. They will consider 59 issues of the day’s order. As a result of the review of 5 laws and 7 regulations, 16 bills were passed on the basis, 4 bills were sent for re-reading to the committee, 1 bill was returned to the subject of the law of the legislative initiative, 1 bill was returned to the committee for re-reading, 16 bills and 5 draft regulations were rejected. According to the President's proposals, 1 law has been passed with partial consideration of the President's proposals, 1 law has been passed by the President's veto, 1 law has been rejected, the veto has not been overtaken. 69 parliamentary inquiries were sent. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, are given 30 minutes on Wednesday for statements by factions. Please sign up for the performance. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna, “Block of Lithuania” faction. Alla Alexandrovska will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the urgent needs that lay the foundation for a successful agricultural year in the spring. It's already started in the south of the spring field. In a week or so, peasants will be in the field all over Ukraine. Question: "What are they going to do in the field?" A number of government decrees were adopted, and the ministry prepared all the necessary normative acts. What about the way out that peasants have? We need to sow nearly 17 million bright cultures. And that's all, if you don't need to move the osmium, which might be, then the hectares will increase. It is estimated that, given the excessive prices for peasants, increased prices for fuel-oil materials. You know, last spring diesel 4800, today 7200, gasoline 5900, today -- 8200, mineral fertilizer -- 20 percent, tons of saltpeters -- 2,240 bucks. And everything else -- parts, techniques, prices, too. So in spring-field work, farmers need at least 30 billion dollars. It's estimated by the specialists. The farmer’s own funds were wept, and less than half of it was needed. Even the Ministry now admits that only half of what is needed for information from places far from accurate have peasants. So there's no more than 15 billion dollars. The monthly financing of the peasants, which was adopted according to Cabinet of Ministers Order 284, paragraph one, is not available today. In fact, no loans are received, no provision is made to reimburse part of the value of the loan for peasants. And to date, the village of those 15 billion needed only received some 182 million credits. Dear colleagues, it's a mess. As a result, we have a situation where banks don't lend, the government doesn't spend on loan repayments, which would signal that banks work more actively in this field. And the cost of credit resources, think about it, colleagues, 20-36 percent. What it takes to have the efficiency of agricultural production in order to be able to outstrip such expensive loans to peasants. All of this is because the 2009 budget for the village is incomplete in most of the main articles. Of those predicted: 2.2 billion dollars from the stabilization fund, which was supposed to seriously help the villagers and for which we fought and argued so actively in this room, the village only got 347 million. The rest didn't get it. Dear colleagues, the pressure on peasants has increased considerably in tax terms. You know, from this year on January 1, the village will pay 100 percent of all pension payments. That's 600 million increasing the pressure on peasants. Therefore, the Lithuanian Block faction requires the government today to carry out its commission in spring and field work. To submit the State Budget to Parliament immediately. Today's biggest economic crime can be the collapse of spring-field jobs. And that's why the faction refers to everyone: Parliament, the government -- to stop all political games.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u5	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u6	They're not popular among people and they're not doing any good for Ukraine and they're doing economics.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u7	Thank you. Alla Alexandrovska, Communist faction. Next is Andrew Kožemyakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u8	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Dear citizens of Ukraine who listen to our broadcast today and watch a broadcast from the Upper Rada Hall! The media of Ukraine informed us the day before that the Head of the Lättäjchenko BSP had taken a vacation. When you hear this interesting message, you immediately realize that you are tired or overworked. Not surprisingly, how many cases have the Ukrainian Security Service reworked under its direct leadership recently. It is worth the titanium work of the falsification and desecration service of Soviet history, with the rise of Fascist acquittals in the rank of Ukrainian heroes. Where to take the Ukrainian Security Service time and energy to effectively protect the country's security in the economic sphere, arms trade, illegal migration, the protection of citizens from legal impunity in the force structures, if exhibitions are to be opened to wash the minds of citizens and especially young people in the right direction for the BSI: the worship of fascists and nationalists, which is to introduce anti-communism and anti-counselling into people's minds. This is the purpose of the exhibition opened in Harkov on the day, entitled “Breaked Fate. Communist terror in Ukraine in the 1920s and 1950s.” And where is the opening of this exhibition? In the library of Králenko, all the famous focal points of culture, science and education and education. The librarians and those who attended and saw this exhibition tell us directly that we are ashamed of the fact that this exhibition of direct falsification of Soviet history is being opened here in our wake of culture and education. It is the objectives of the Security Service that the peoples of the Soviet Union, the peoples of Ukraine, should forget and not know young people, that it is in those years that the so-called Communist regime has been able to consolidate the peoples of the Soviet Union, the peoples of Ukraine, into the construction of the first working State in the world. The BSB has become a structural unit of the Institute of National Memory, a planter of nationalism in Ukraine. And I can see why. Can the Security Service allow young people to know the truth, that it is from 1920-1950 that everything we use today has been created, cities built, factories built, new sciences created, unique on a global scale. And all of this is done under the direct guidance of the so-called Communist regime. Can the Security Service allow young people to know about this? Because then young people will have the question: what is happening today and who has built factories today, and where we can today realize our creativity, our human potential, where we can be needed today in this society, in a society where there is no place for truth, in a society where there is no future, there is no place for our young people. It is for the purpose of taking young people away from the truth that the Security Service is depriving the people of Ukraine for these purposes and is wasting its power. What's more, she's spending money. What kind of money is spent on such activities? The exhibition was organized with the direct participation of the so-called “Ukraine-3,000” fund. We all know that this is a fund that was set up by the wife of the former President of Ukraine, Catherine Claire-Yushchenko, and that large amounts of money have been raised into this fund for a seemingly noble purpose: the establishment of a hospital for the future, hospitals where our children, children of Ukraine, were to be treated for severe diseases. Where's the hospital? Where is the money that people have collected? After all, all citizens of Ukraine participated in the establishment of this fund. A lot of people sent the last copy to this fund to build this hospital for the future. Now, for this money, this fund creates these exhibits and drives them all over Ukraine. The Security Service requires condemnation of its activities. I demand: Istavajchenko is retired, and I am resigning from Ltavajchenko at the local level, including in the Kharkiv region. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u9	Thank you. Sergey Sobolev, faction of the Timoshenko Yulia Block. Next is Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u10	Statement of the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Following the presidential election, Ukraine faces a serious threat to the collapse of our country's strategic development programmes as a democratic European state, where the rule of law, freedom of speech, pluralism of thought and the unreserved right of the Ukrainian people through state institutions to exercise power. After the key European principle of free will of the Ukrainian people had been violated, and the position of President of Ukraine was given to Viktor Janukovic, Ukraine is now being built only for the narrow circle of corrupt politicians. As a result, Ukraine’s national interests and its sovereignty were seriously endangered. Under these conditions, the only alternative to the internal and external policies of Yanukovic, the guarantee of independence and democratic development of Ukraine is the preservation of an active coalition and government. The Supreme Party of the Regions, without yet waiting for the results of the elections, has already begun the old practice of political corruption by trying to accumulate, blackmail national MPs, trying to overthrow the so - called new coalition. We would like to remind you that there are several ways of destroying the coalition. The first way. This is actually the output of one of the factions of the coalition. But we hope our colleagues in the Lithuanian Block Coalition, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" won't take that step. Because that was the key factor in the election campaign, when the key principles of democracy were declared to be principles of the creation and affirmation of the coalition. So we believe that there will never be a repeat of the stage when there will be a return to political censorship, to the political expansion of prosperity and corruption. The second way to destroy the coalition is to resign the government. That is why, from the first day the Government Trust Regulation was introduced, we immediately insisted that the matter should be addressed immediately in the session room. And that's what this is going to be, this is going to be the litmus paper that shows who's voting for the resignation of the government, who's voting for the collapse of the coalition, who's voting for a new course that's actually destroying all democratic values. This is directly a key test for us. And we insisted that this issue be put immediately in the session room. And when the games began with the cancellations and then the new introductions, we insisted that this issue be addressed immediately in the session room. The third principle that is crucial to us that can destroy the coalition is actually out-of-court elections. Therefore, we would like to remind all those who have passed 2006 of the end of political corruption for those who have succumbed to blackmail or bribery. We would like to remind you of the fate of the political power that has actually lost the trust of its citizens, the Block of Frost, which has actually remained at the backs of history today. That is why we insist on one thing. For us, it's a crucial test of an active coalition. This test is actually going to be a moment of truth. And tomorrow, during the vote, we hope that this question will not be put off again, because those incentives, the search for voices that are going on today through political bribery and corruption, because of the fact that the required 2-3 votes, are actually going to collapse. And we hope that tomorrow this vote will put all the dots above the “and”. And we will see if the government will continue to work and continue to pursue that policy of economic independence of the state, of European integration. Will we, in fact, show the whole country with the votes of the traitors tomorrow, who broke down the existing coalition and who resigned the government? For us, there are several principles that are most important. Today, the existence of an active coalition is possible under one condition: the continuation of the policies of the European vector of development. It's a continuation of democracy's policies, the inability to usurp power with one political force. That is why we address our coalition colleagues: the moment of truth has come. There is no coalition — a key test of the government’s trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u11	Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach, faction of the Party of the Regions. Next is Mikola Martinenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u12	A statement by the faction of the Party of the Regions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear citizens, distinguished national MPs! Ukraine is a state that has enormous conditions for modern development: science, technology, industry, human resources, natural potential, missile and space complex, aviation, shipbuilding, agri-industrial complex with unique traditions and better black lands in the world. At the same time, the Ukrainian State, the people, the economy became hostages of ineffective, unconsolidated power. The temporary conjuncture, ambition, and opposition are destroying Ukraine’s strategic development. It has long been clear to everyone that there is no coalition in the de facto parliament. The simulations of activities called coalitions, along with the personal government agony of Timoshenko, undermine the development of the state, contradict national interests, and deepen the crisis. So, Reverend Vladimir Mihajlovich, the faction of the Party of the Regions is urging you to declare as Head of the Supreme Council official information on the presence or absence of the so - called 226 National Deputies Coalition. This is not a political situation. This is the need for immediate action in response to the deep systemic crisis in Ukraine. There is a good distance between Ukraine and the world that surrounds us. Ukraine ended 2009 with the worst socio-economic indicators in Europe. The fall in gross domestic product is minus 15 percent. Industrial production is minus 22 percent. The lowest level of average wage in Europe is already in Moldova, Albania, Belarus. The decline in production volume in the system’s basic industries, such as machine building, construction, power engineering, and automobile construction, was between 45 and 90 percent. An unprecedented tax debt on the added value in the business return context is minus 25 billion. Advance payments are about 12 billion. In fact, our development today is being ruined. They are alarmed, including respected national MPs, and international organizations, beginning with the United Nations, the European Union, the World Bank on an equal footing with corruption, economic crime, and the raiding of Ukraine are already included in the first so - called five troubled nations. Diseases that threaten society -- HIV-AIDS, oncology -- are on the rise. Europe's highest rate of population reduction. It clearly increases risks considerably, including the fact that Ukraine is the only state in Europe that started 2010 without a government budget, without monetary and monetary policy parameters. Dear National Deputies! We are confident that patriotism, the efforts to protect Ukraine’s national interests, and its authority should unite us. The party of regions is confident that it is impossible to overcome the systemic crisis, and it is impossible to get into constant development in a situation of political instability. The Ukrainian Party of Regions calls on all responsible, pragmatic forces, both in Parliament and in society, to unite will, mind, action for the immediate formation of a viable coalition, government and together to address the issues that are painful for every Ukrainian citizen, the adoption of the 2010 State Budget, the implementation of anti-crisis measures, the recovery of the economy and, of course, the improvement of the lives of people in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u13	Mikola Volodymyrovich Martinenko, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u14	The honorable head, the honourable colleagues, ended the presidential election, but the political crisis did not end. Parliament is dealing with issues that are not at the top of my list, to the extreme. The government's not working out. They're going inconclusive, I'm sorry, the coalition movement, I mean yesterday's coalition meeting. And that's what we're saying about what we can do right now. Without solving the political crisis, we will not be able to cope with the economic difficulties we face today in the state. Examples and figures are well known: 10 percent of unemployment, over 80 billion already unexistent budget deficits, over 100 billion external debt, and when we haven't even gone to the Social and Economic Development Programme this year, we don't know, we don't understand where the budget is, and what we're talking about in general. And in fact, we're only talking about one thing: who's to blame for the collapse of the coalition. I'm sorry, it's unscrupulous for a military electorate, it's a principle for a military electorate to eventually get the authorities to act effectively. Triangle: The President - the Supreme Council - the government - must work as quickly as possible to ensure that the country's default forecasts do not turn from fear to reality. That's why we took a public initiative to appoint the Prime Minister from the faction "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense". Whoever's not in power, the BUT or the Party of Regions, needs a force that will not allow a concentration of powers in one hand. Our faction is ready to take responsibility for economic reforms during this difficult time. Our partners with the BUIT do not explicitly agree to give up the Prime Minister's office, rather, by making all new and new proposals. In all the negotiations, we made every effort to find certain compromises and not find those responsible for the congregation’s signatures. When the coalition was formed today, there was no secret that 37 signatures had been collected from “Our Ukraine”. And now there's nothing to look for 55 so we can be guilty of falling apart. Because since the coalitions have been trying to use us separately as cannon meat since yesterday’s meeting on the Council, dragging us into loyalty to the BUT faction alone, we do not agree, so we leave the right to start consultations on coalitions with other factions in Parliament. I see. [[B in m in s a l in]] Speaking of the Prime Minister's office, we mean that this is going to be a member of the NH-NS, not someone outside the faction. We offer to lead a government that is experienced and highly professional, which will not be afraid to take on a huge responsibility. Because everyone realizes that the Prime Minister’s position in the current crisis in Ukraine is equivalent to that of the Kamikade. You're going to have to sacrifice it with a rating, not a rating. I would like to stress, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" and will continue to stand for our ideological principles in any form, and their integrity must be documented because they stand for more than 50 per cent of Ukrainian citizens, namely the course on Euro-Integration, the status of Ukrainian as a national, the control of the State over the gas transport system and so on. These things for us are and will be principled, regardless of the names of the President or the Prime Minister. Route one is an active government, a government action programme, an urgent adoption of the budget. Thank you for your attention. And respectable coalition friends, if any of you have a different zone than you, let's have extreme respect for each other, because we remember very well in 2005, how you can play information scandals. Not until now, there are very serious problems in the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, the factions are over. With regard to the proposals made in the presentations, applications that need to be responded to by the relevant authorities, I ask that you prepare a commission. Ladies and gentlemen, do you have a schedule? If, for the sake of schedule and organization of our work today, in one minute, please, let us exchange our thoughts. The Communist faction, is there any reason for this? I won't. Please, the faction of the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u16	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Today, there has been a proposal from this rostrum that we will continue to work in a state where the Supreme Council itself is not designed, we simply cannot. Today, the ten-day track expires when representatives of the coalition were to submit the necessary signatures to the 226 deputies. As far as we can tell, these signatures don't exist. Therefore, Vladimir Mihajlovich, we insist that either the announcement, the termination of the coalition, or the Conciliation Council now be convened so that, in a narrow format, we can determine our position in the future. Please support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u17	Please, the Lithuanian Block faction, is there anything you'd like to say? I can't see. None. Ivan Kirilenko, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u18	Dear Chief, distinguished voters, distinguished colleagues! I would like to stress once again the position of our faction: we owe no one anything. The coalition was formed according to the Constitution at that time, and we have no obligation to put anything on the table. The law has no reverse power. This is a presumption of all rights in all countries of the world. So you have 226 votes in factions that can form a coalition, please put them on the table. We won't tell you. We thank you for your “joint work, ” as Martinenko did, in the coffeehouses, and wish you success in your future work. The government will be in charge of the newly created coalition at the same time. Let's not scare people with scarecrows. Place your 226. And one more thing, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, please announce the faction's decision, today's protocol, where we revoked our decision to exclude our colleagues from the faction of Zadrik, the Chaplin. Please announce it. One hundred percent of the faction voted for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u19	On the final offer of John Grigorovich Kirilenko, please note. I had to get the camera ready now. I'll make the right announcement. It's a technical question, I don't see a problem with that. As for the reminder of the Rules, I do not think I should speak. Because there and then, and today, 226 signatures were signed. We need a mother. The "Ukrainian People's Self-Defense" faction will be someone in the organization of our work today? Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u20	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I think you should announce right now that nowhere in the Rules is there a 10-day or 30-day term to determine that any new signatures should be collected. Article 61 of the Rules states otherwise. We're in the wrong place right now. We need to hold day-to-day meetings. And if there are questions about the operation of the laws of time, then it goes back to article 58 of the Constitution, where it is clearly provided that laws other, regulatory acts do not have a reverse effect in time. And so to stop this incomprehensible chatter that is now gone, and to work in normal mode, to consider the budget, all the other problems that are facing the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u21	Dear colleagues! We've exchanged thoughts, you all have schedules, dear colleagues, attention, please! I ask that the first Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mr. Lavrinovich, continue to chair the faction leaders, please gather in the Cabinet of the Supreme Council to discuss this situation. You all speak beautifully and beautifully, dear colleagues, but we need a job, not a form. We don't have jobs, unfortunately, I said we don't. Because we've made a thousand 993 decisions with you for this session, and the coalition has voted in 130. So let's either consider the budget offered by Yuri Anatoliyovich, or we'll make other decisions. Is that why there's no objection? I ask the faction leaders, please gather to the office of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and we will continue our work on Tuesday's scheduled issues. Please don't take a break.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u22	Dear colleagues! We're continuing our work. A draft law on the return to state ownership of the entire property complex of a limited company is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 4530]] This is Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich reporting, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u23	Dear colleagues! You have before you the draft law which provides for the return to public property as a holistic, property-based society with a limited responsibility of the Herson Engineering Plant. The draft law, however, provides for the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers to carry out appropriate activities related to the return to State property of this holistic property complex and to provide the necessary means for the implementation of this procedure in the next year's draft Law on State Budget. I would like to inform you, my dear colleagues, that the faction of the Company has been approached by a labour force, i.e. by a labour group. The Herson Engineering Plant has been asked to submit this proposal for your consideration. And the urgency of the request is for the Supreme Council to decide on the return of the plant to public property. What are respectable companions? We must understand with you that this is a matter of protecting national interests today. If this factory, the Herson Machinery Plant, were to operate and implement the 4,000-combined programme per year, it would have been used in cooperation and would have provided 115,000 workers with jobs. That is to say, it is a real problem that relates to the elimination of unemployment. Thus, the economic activity would have resulted in a budget of 1.4 billion dollars. We need to understand with you, comrades, that in terms of national security, we need to present the following figures in comparison. In the 1990s, nearly 106,000 tractors worked in the fields of Ukraine, and there are now 50,000 tractors. We must also understand that every year the village of Ukraine needs at least 2-3 thousand new combines to collect crops. Otherwise, if the main funds in the village were to be disbursed up to 90 per cent, there might soon be a situation that we in Ukraine would not be able to have the equipment to process the land, do spring work, harvest crops and prepare the soil for new crops. We must understand with you, comrades, that we also need this decision to be made with a view to order the results of privatization. This would in fact be the beginning of an inventory of the implementation of the privatization obligations undertaken by individuals when they received from the State full-scale national economic complexes. What are you talking about, comrades? Practically what has been done in the Herson Combin Factory since privatization, the affairs that have been committed by government officials have been dealt with by you that almost the entire stock park has been sold for 8 million bracelets. And almost the factory's construction is for 30,000 bracelets. Stanky walked from a hammer, from forty to a thousand bracelets worth of one machine. And one square metre of buildings is 100 bracelets. Excavator was sold from a hundred bracelets and above. That is to say, this is the brightest example of criminal machinations being carried out in order to take over this complex and to destroy Ukraine in fact in order to ensure agricultural production with appropriate equipment. In order to determine the extent of exactly what happened in this factory, I would like to give some figures. And these figures will give you the opportunity, respected colleagues, to examine the potential of this case and the agricultural engineering to provide our manufacturers with machines and equipment. Prior to the collapse of the Soviet Union in the factory, it was the Herson Combain factory that created the following production facilities per year: a combination of self-propelled corn harvesters - 5,000 pieces per year; a combination of a custom maize harvester - 7,000 per year; a crop harvester - 8,000 pieces per year. Next, a maize cleaner for the Don-1500 grain harvester, 6000 pieces, rain canal aggregates - 8 000, rain plant "Dnepri" - 2,000, pump station - about 8,000 pieces. In the 1980s, at the end of the 1980s, the annual production programme for this plant was the following: a combination of two and a half thousand cars, a combination of a maize harvester - 4.5, a supply of 6,000. So technology is enough to provide our village. The annual programme is almost at current prices of five billion bracelets. At the end of the 1980s, the number of people working in this main enterprise was 12.5,000, and the production of the association included design institutes, boarding houses, secondary farms, that is, all that was necessary for the work of the labour force. It should also be borne in mind that, in 1996, CB South and Herson Combains jointly began designing and supplying the Slavuc harvester. The project had already received the State Science and Technology Award in Ukraine in years of independence. Ukraine, as an agrarian Power, needed a modern grain harvester. Some funds have been invested to ensure that the project is implemented. And it really started to produce this combo. In 2002, there were 70 copies, from 2003 to 60. And these are, unfortunately, almost indicators that show that the programme has not been implemented. For information, comrades, once again, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the number of staff in the stockholder open society of the Herson Combains by the end of 2001 has been 5,300, and after privatization and entry, Mr. Oilynik's mountain investor, has been reduced to a catastrophic mark of 300 people, and in fact the plant has become a workshop. As we studied this issue, we went directly to the factory, met with the labour force, and once again, we would like to emphasize that decisions have been made, and I mean the judiciary, which demanded that order be established primarily in the interests of the labour community and the protection of their rights. As early as 2003, the Economic Court of the Hersonian Region had decided to restore the State Property Fund in the register of owners of the Hersonian Combains, which would enable the State to own almost 50 plus 1 shares, i.e. manage the process. Comrades, I think there's another problem that needs to be addressed. This problem is particularly relevant to the way in which law enforcement agencies have protected the interests of the State. Not the Attorney-General's Office, nor the Security Service have been able to assert Ukraine's interests and, above all, to provide our producer, the farmer, with appropriate equipment. Therefore, respectable comrades, as a result of this decision, I think I should also address the Prosecutor's Office to further investigate this fact. The Supreme Council, the Privatization Commission, had considered the issue and had also concluded that the business had to be returned to public property and had also requested the Office of the Attorney-General to complete the investigation process. I call upon you, dear colleagues, to take this decision on first reading today and to support the proposal and request of the labour community. These are our electors with you, those who today think how Ukrainian peasants will process our land and what technology to provide them with. I would also like to ask you to protect national interests from one point of view. In Ukraine, mass is being introduced into foreign technology. Thus, Ukraine is in fact investing a foreign producer and working for an uncle abroad. I therefore hope that those who claim their most patrioticness here will think about how to protect Ukraine's interests today, first of all, to support this particular labour force, and to return this enterprise to public property. Yeah, some say we don't have the law to return. Comrades, you know what I suggested to you earlier for consideration and decision the draft Nationalization Act, i.e. the procedure for the return to public property of property that is not used effectively. I hope you understand, and I hope that you, as the people's deputies elected, including the labourers of the Herson Combin factory, support their just demand to return this enterprise to the property of the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u24	Let's sign up for a question to the reporter. National Deputy Karpuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u25	Vladimir Karpuk, group “For Ukraine!”, party “Our Ukraine”. Peter Mikolaiovich, have you studied the legal consequences of adopting this law, as far as the owners of the plant are concerned after the adoption of our law to sue him in court or perhaps in international courts? Because we can accept, of course, that we need to take measures to those owners who take away factories for no price, that they don't invest, that they don't support the social infrastructure of an enterprise, in fact, they actually privatize for cash with a lot of wealth, but how much, without the law, can we actually win these trials in the courts?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u26	I believe that if we take this decision with you, your honorary colleague, in this case, the owner of Mr. Olijnik will not stand up in the courts, but will be brought to criminal responsibility and will be held accountable under the law for destroying this enterprise practically. I am convinced that if the Office of the Attorney General makes an objective approach to this problem, then, let us say, and with regard to the structure that Ukrmash acted on behalf of the State. I'm sorry, I have a name here, Ukmashinvest. Let's find out who's there and what he's been up to. Let's take a look at what kind of politics was being carried out in the Ministry. That is, we will approach this problem in a comprehensive way, and we are convinced that the owner will then not stand up for his right in the courts, but will be brought to criminal liability for failing to fulfil the privatisation obligations he has undertaken because the state has not given him the right to sell and destroy a whole complex like this machine factory. He wasn't allowed to be released, and you see, I gave you a figure of 12.5 thousand is the number of jobs, and then in 2000, 5,000 300 worked, and today 300.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u27	Hare Ivan Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u28	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear reporter, the situation is really complicated with the Herson machine factory, let me put it this way, with the combine plant. It's not good, it's not good at all, that Ukraine is today without a combine, and that's why we can't implement our agricultural potential properly. And this suggests that privatization has taken place ineffectively. You're proposing to solve this problem by returning the factory to state property. [[private]] You haven't considered the option, you haven't negotiated with the Cabinet of Ministers what the Cabinet of Ministers is now proposing in this situation? Do they have any other schemes? Will they accept your offer? Because the situation is really difficult if we don't have a factory like this, we're going to be able to intellectualize Ukraine. Are we going to turn into a country with raw resources?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u29	Unfortunately, you and I are witnesses, distinguished colleagues, because in the Cabinet of Ministers, not national interests are protected, but in our own pocket, and we create prerequisites for government money in different lysing companies to go through, and then buy one or the other abroad, so let's say equipment, equipment, including technology. Don't you and I know that 2.5 billion have been invested in the Crucifixion, on the Crucifixion of Ukrainian combines for 80 million just bought? That's the answer to your question, which is that, further down, but coming to power by the representatives of the powerful capital, which is that their people are managers, not officials today, that's what they're doing. So I suggested that we, the Supreme Council, which, on behalf of the people, is in charge, including ownership, should decide that this property was ineffectively used. As a result of criminal activity, rural machinery is virtually destroyed today. Let's see: Kharkiv “Serp and Molot”, Ternopil Combin factory in which state, “Red Star” Kirovogradska in what state and many other issues. So I propose that the Supreme Council begin the process of protecting national interests, that is, protecting our property.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u30	Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u31	Peter Mikolaiovich, I want to continue with the question of John Alexander the Hare. The decision to change the form of property will not be saved by agricultural machinery. You've named the list of companies and Kharkiv, and Dnipropetrovsk, and the Ternopil combine, which has now become warehouses, and the Epicenter store, and so on. This regulation does not have the main thing, the form of ownership can be changed, and the financing can be changed. See, today the last two decrees of the Ministry’s last cabinet are issued with State loans for the purchase of agricultural equipment. Can we now talk about providing development funds in Ukraine's budget to resuscitate Ukraine's agricultural machinery. The very form of property without any funds will give you nothing.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u32	You know, as part of the anti-crisis coalition, when we were working on how to start specific directions of our work from the point of view of support, there was also a program that was adopted to develop and support the power plant. For the development and support of factories, 100 million dollars were allocated. And this money was used to save and save the most efficient production today. On the other hand, it was for the state to protect our manufacturer, a peasant, by regulating the same price for the technology that targets the village. And this program has already been put into practice. And so far we have certain, well, the results of this program. But it's practically stopping today. That's why we can re-produce a program for implementation, which is the support of the power plant and the producer's support with price policies for the technology we provide. This program, I'm sure, will have a perspective from the point of view of chemical enterprises, or mineral fertilizers that will be supplied.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u33	Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u34	Peter Mikolaiovich, have you been investigating the drafting of this legislative act that this group of entrepreneurs has done not only with the Hersonian Combain but with the White Church plant? What did this group do to the Lviv plant? When new owners arrived there, they estimated the damage to the factory to tens of millions of dollars. Equipment has been removed, buildings destroyed. There is now tens of millions of dollars to be invested in new owners to restore production. I think it was a system of work to destroy the salt mass building of this entrepreneurial group. And the second. Are the conditions that affected investment activities violated? I'm convinced that when the contract was signed, there were investment commitments. Perhaps this is the simplest way that there will then be no judicial decisions on this matter. According to this bill, on the first reading, our faction will support it in taking our comments into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u35	And I support your concern, because, in fact, we've only touched on one problem: the Herson machine plant, and that has something to do with other businesses. I fully agree with your concern and share your position. And in this part, we're also concerned that the Attorney General's Office, which we've repeatedly addressed, including the national MPs, has failed to give a proper legal assessment of what happened when the entire complex was destroyed, and this is state property, which is national interests. So I'm going to share your position, so let's vote on the first reading. So we're going to have the ideology of solving this problem, and we're going to prepare for the second reading to finally accept this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u36	Samolikka Katerina Seminovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u37	Thank you. I am, of course, very sorry to hear everything that is being said today, because with the establishment of the city as the southern forpost of the empire, this factory was created, like the entire shipbuilding industry. But today the question is specific. Peter Mikolaiovich, please tell us how you appreciate the activities of the Ukrainian Minister's Office, the ice-skating company, which practically overturned the activities of our machine-building industry, and all the costs, in practice, were transported for the purchase of foreign technology? And wouldn't it be useful to assign a mandate to the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, other bodies that should control these issues with regard to the targeted use of the funds of the State budget of Ukraine, which seem to support the construction of agriculture.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u38	The actions of the Cabinet of Ministers are still regarded as criminal and anti-government. And I'm convinced that they can't be evaluated differently, because indeed, the state has suffered tremendous damage. When we're talking about the same lysing company, you're talking about Kragromashinvest, then, honourable colleagues, as a result of this affair, practically, these factories were sold for 20 million dollars, practically, to a foreign company, and so, Ukraine lost its power plant as a whole. So, reverend, I can't give a different grade as a criminal and anti-government position. Another issue that needs to be considered is the responsibility of officials who have provided the basis for similar activities of this licensing company. And the use of the State Budget. Here I am supporting Soboljev, who also posed this as a question to me. The point is that when we look at the State budget, we will not only view it as a budget for funding social programs, and that will be the financing of the State's development programmes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u39	Gnatkevich Yuri Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u40	Dear Peter Mikolaiovich, you mentioned your law, your draft Nationalization Act, your reprivatization, their principles and criteria. You remember that we discussed this on the past Friday. And it's too bad that the very important material and the bill were being discussed in some way in the room, and there were very few people in the room, and it's a pity that even so few people voted for it. But this is a question that I have in mind. Are you going to go back to this bill in some other form or not? And the second. Do you agree with the factions today? For example, our faction recommends voting in favour today after Yuri Odarchenk of Herson. Is this in harmony with other factions? You know, it's serious that it doesn't just come out of a chat room. Peter Mikolaiovich, and the last. The last bill you reported in the national language of Ukraine. What's changed? The subject is the same. And today you've reported in the state language of the Russian Federation. What does it depend on, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u41	I reported in the language of our people. And the question is, let's take the language question for the parentheses of this conversation right now. And you're right in the part that, unfortunately, the Supreme Council didn't adopt the key law that I proposed last time -- it's the protection of the state's own interests because of the law on the possibility of returning property to state property, which has been ineffectively used, including those criminal acts that accompany the privatization process. It's about getting back to him. Yes, I'm going back to the hearing and I'm going to propose to the Supreme Council. Although by law I have the right to introduce the next session. But if you support me, on the next Conciliation Board, I'm going to suggest that we go back to this project and look at it. He will be addressing the key issues that have to do with the protection of national interests. So that there would be no volunteerism, no adventures, but indeed a state position, and we would be able to use it with you in the interests of the state to protect our citizens. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u42	Peter Mikolaiovich, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u43	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u44	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Let's sign up for a discussion. Kravchenko Mikola Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u45	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Respectable colleagues, such as the Herson Machinery Plant, the Combustion Plant, can see how all agricultural machinery was destroyed in general and how the Ukrainian industry was destroyed. In the last two or three weeks, I seem to have reported such a bill on the Corestinian porcelain plant. The same situation: people were thrown into the street, the unique factory destroyed, looted. But what strikes me is Mr. Gnatkevich and I agree in the part that we're so indifferent, we're so calm about cutting off the bitch we're sitting on. Tell me, please, we will return to this matter in any case. In any case, we will review who is the effective owner, why the Power has virtually nothing to own today and we hope only on the nature of the market. I therefore call on the people's deputies to give careful consideration to today's bill, submitted by Peter Nikolaevich Simonenko, to vote in first reading and to establish a precedent that the State is finally starting the market regulation process. The State will act as an operator on the market, just like others, i.e. a party. If we don't understand that, then we don't understand anything in the history of capitalism. If we do not understand that the regulatory role of a State by returning such masters to ownership, we will not be able to understand the essence of the situation. That is why the faction today, I am sure, will vote in favour. And I call on other factions to support this bill on first reading. During the second reading stage, refine, delete the details that have been discussed. And thus help the labour force to master the property that belonged to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u46	Sergey Vladislavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you of the history of this matter. A special commission had been set up to review all the material that had been sent to the Attorney General’s Office to provide information. What does the work of this commission show? There's a report from the commission. In fact, it would be very important to consider at least a second reading of this commission report to be distributed to the national deputies. In fact, it was reversed, in my opinion, one of the greatest adventures of so-called privatization under the condition of primary capital accumulation. What happened to the Herson Combain factory, the Biloczerkowska and Lviv power plant, which were the first to be privatized, not by the State Property Fund, but by privatizing the so-called agroholding? In fact, at no price were the largest companies in Ukraine, which were, and were actually, the flags of the power plant, after the so-called investor Mr. Olijnik and his “Mashholding” arrived there, all the best equipment, the resources at one of the enterprises, the Biocerkow factory, where all the equipment was exported. All the other equipment was cut down and actually put on scrap metal. In the workshops of the Hersons, the Lviv Industrial Plant, construction was created by commercial, any other enterprise, but not by direct enterprises that were directly supposed to be involved in the construction of the agricultural industry. It is the Commission’s direct arguments that give rise to the conclusions that have been transmitted to the Attorney General and the Cabinet of Ministers. A particular situation for assistance that was provided to the Herson factory, for example. So last year alone, a special decree of the Cabinet of Ministers allocated 5 million bracelets for the purchase of technology. How did this end? In fact, these 5 million dollars that went directly to the factory were wasted, and the technology that was produced has not yet been passed on or implemented. Thus, 5 million dollars of direct investment by the State, which were aimed at supporting this enterprise, were actually stolen. These facts are similarly explained in the work of this temporary commission. That's why we actually have two choices today. If we go into execution, or if we don't do investment commitments, which our faction is proposing, it's actually going to be a direct violation of the Privatisation Act, which in no way can then be sued in court, because the new owners have not done so. That is why we would insist that the law be adopted in the first reading, and on the second reading, these proposals were taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u48	Hare Ivan Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u49	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. Dear National Deputies! Obviously, it is necessary to save the factory, because if we seriously appreciate everything that has happened around the Herson Combin factory, we cannot call it “special technology for the destruction of agricultural machinery in Ukraine”. And we are a nation with great agricultural potential, and we have to have our agricultural machinery, otherwise we will be very vulnerable to external influences. A combine is a high-tech product, and it's going to need to be created by at least a few hundred thousand jobs. You have to have normal metallurgy, you have to have a construction office, you have to have high-quality employees. So in this direction, by saving the combine plant, we can solve the problem of jobs. But I think that today we should discuss this issue in a much deeper way, not just asking questions about the transfer of this plant to state ownership, but asking questions about the rehabilitation of the Ukrainian Combin State Programme. One day we forgot about the program, and there were specific terms, there were specific responsibilities, and there was a specific system to stimulate the release of Ukrainian combines. If we don't pay attention to this particular part today, if we don't find the funds that will allow us to provide some demand, we won't have a good combination. I'm going to give you an example that once happened to the heat truck when Kip was still the minister. He was buying these heat at one of the Kharkiv companies. And then he stopped releasing. And the journalists are asking him why you are. Buying. Why did you stop buying these cars from your native manufacturer? He says there's no quality. When asked by the director of the company. He said. To ensure quality, at least 20 or 30 of these machines must be released. Similarly, hundreds of thousands of combines must be released to ensure the quality of the combine. And this is where the state has to stimulate this demand. And maybe we need to reverse the lysing system in this part to buy the Ukrainian combo. So I see that this bill should be adopted in the first reading. I would suggest that the Supreme Council at all listen to the Cabinet of Ministers at the very level of what is done after the rehabilitation of agricultural machinery and especially after the release of combines. If we go wide enough to solve this problem, we'll solve it, and we'll have our own combine, and we'll have jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u50	Bondik Valeriy Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u51	Dear colleagues! Honorable Predestination! Dear reporter, Peter Mikolaiovich! Indeed, the question that you have asked is very urgent and relevant only on the grounds that the destruction of such an area of the real economy, such as machine building and individual power engineering, has a very negative impact on an industrial state, an agricultural and industrial one like our Ukraine. But, Peter Mikolaiovich, this bill could have been voted for, but please note the requirement of the Rules. Why? Because we have to make scientific, economic, accounting, financial, whatever the reason. Why? Because you know that according to law theory, if there is a return decree, this is restitution under civil law. If there is restitution, who will be responsible for the damage? I don't want to analyze which owner is good or bad right now, but there's a procedure that's approved by the court. There was a rescue company. And as far as I know, Mr. Oilynik, with nothing to do with the state structure of Ukragroling, was trying to build a factory at his own expense. He paid his salary, he created a new combine in the project. And now we're going to make a decision and it's going to have very negative legal consequences. Nationalization, you know, I'm afraid of that word because in 17 years you and I had a nationalization. And once again, let's focus on this notion that unfortunately, the state now, it has to intervene as little as possible in the business economy. The state -- we're with you, the legislature -- has to create conditions, and the owner of the open competition, let it prevail, let it prove its right to run this plant, according to nationalization. It's different. Court procedure. I told you again, we're going to create a negative precedent. And that's why I would say, you know, I used to do the dissertation work, which was in the region where you and I came from, "Rightful property reform, bankruptcy procedure." You know, in the Donetsk region there used to be a Constantinen metal mill and there was a Debaltsz metalworking machine building -- they're not there right now. Why? Because unfortunately, or fortunately, all of these divorces of the 1990s ended when the Bankruptcy Act began to work. And if the sanction is run by the owner, let him prove to the court that he is a good owner. So, Peter Mikolaiovich, you can vote in favour of your law in the first reading, but given the comments, I'm asking you to work on the second reading, well, at least that's my own opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u52	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u53	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, the question is, do we need the country's handballs? It's obviously necessary. What does the Constitution foretell? The Constitution provides that in the event of a social need, property of a person may be returned to the State. And how did they get this property, with the permission to say, ownership of the state "Herson machine factory"? Now, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, I thank him for his thorough report, and I thoroughly showed him that they had been illegally received. He didn't prove it in time, because aside from the judgment of the Court of Hearsson, there was a decision of the Zaporez Court of Appeal that left the decision of the Economic Court of the Hersonian Region in force, and there was state ownership, the state owned 50 percent and one percent of the shares. He has not yet shown the role of the huge Interpipe company in the destruction of the Herson machine plant. That's all I want to say right now. Looking at the conclusion of the Scientific and Expert Authority, which says that it is possible to return to state property only when there is law, I want to say that there is a direct rule of the Constitution -- this is part of the five articles of the 41st, which foresees forced alienation of private property. The only thing we need to predict in this law is full and prior compensation for their value. And since it took place for a penny, Peter Mikolaiovich, it should be returned to the State of Money. Therefore, this law should now read: “Return, having previously assessed at this price”. All of it. That's the first one. And the second. Ladies and gentlemen, you're all now looking at this project, and we need to look at and stop what's happening in Santa Claus in the destruction of Nicholas' shipbuilding plants, and there are also foreign investors who are called then to inaugurate to some and so on. You know who I'm talking about. We need to anticipate and adopt a nationalization law. There is a law in any country: England, France, in any country. And every country uses this process. So I'm going to suggest that we adopt this law in the first reading, although it's raw, it needs to be supplemented. We will complete it, and we have just completed the discussion. But I'm also going to ask you to pass the Nationalization Act in another way that we are now.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u54	Bondar Alexander Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u55	Alexander Bondar, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” faction. Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! I would like to remind you that the object that is currently being considered by Parliament has not been privatized, so it cannot be nationalized, returned to state property in accordance with the law that Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko reported. It is a clear fact that I am an expert, and it is impossible to vote on this law in the first reading. The temporary commission led by Odarchenko, who was looking at the activity of Kragrachasinvest, made absolutely qualified conclusions on how to solve the problem across all the objects involved in the holding, reported. The Supreme Council needs to take a report on this commission and recommendation, and there's all this: both the Cabinet's orders, and the Prosecutor's office and all that. I want to remind you that the objects were handed over to the holding company by decision of the Cabinet of Ministers, and the holding company itself sold these objects, conducted a secondary issue, and reduced the government’s stock. A holding fund headed by various executives was tried for bringing these packages back to state property. The Minister's office did that, too. Sadly, Aden had not yet made a positive decision. In addition, Semenjuk Valentina Petrovna, head of the foundation, the only head who signed that everything was legal is a letter to the Attorney General's Office. So the only thing we need to do right now is in the courts. At the invitation of the Cabinet of Ministers and the Holding Foundation to resolve the issue that when shares were handed over to the holding company, they remained in state ownership and had no right to alienate them. After that, these packets return to state property as soon as such a decision is made by the court. The process of nationalization or return to state property is absolutely useless. And I want to convince you that this law, the adoption of it in the first, second reading, does not solve the problem at all. Once again, I have to take a report from the temporary commission that reviewed the holding business, confirm the conclusions there, and under the control of the Special Privatisation Supervisory Commission, make sure that the Cabinet of Ministers and the Maintenance Fund win a court case, which I say once again, has to solve one question: the packages transferred to the holding company are in state ownership. And all that has been done with them is criminal crime and abuse of the position of those who have done so. Thank you for your attention. I'm asking you to listen to my opinion as an expert.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u56	Smithuh Grigori Yudkomovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u57	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill that we're considering, or the problem that we're considering, is not a problem for one enterprise or two enterprises. In Ukraine, in general, there are a lot of such problematic issues that are very important for our national complex, for Ukraine to actually come out of the crisis or for Ukraine to show some positive effects in economic progress. I'm sure. There's a different right of view: how to approach this case of an enterprise, how to reprivatize it, how to return it to government property, or how to stimulate it to do it. And of course Peter Simonenko has the right to the bill and he has the right to be supported by the Supreme Council in order to move forward with this work. But I think that, along with this, the second reading should be done. And the people's honourable deputies, and who privatized this factory under such a cunning scheme? It has already been stated here repeatedly that 29 million 25 companies transferred to holding companies were privatized by two offshore companies, one Interlink to Switzerland, a founding citizen. And with the participation of our officials who worked in the Ministry of Economics at the time, the State Property Fund, perhaps closing their money's eyes, gave permission to steal these businesses. There was no business in privatization, no money in the state, no money in the development of this company. What should we do? Of course, as privatization went into the so-called wild capitalism in which Ukraine is, if this enterprise were to work, the flag into the hands of the masters who took over the business. But if the enterprise is destroyed, exported, transferred to the metalworks, what can you do? But nothing needs to be done, the Criminal Code, should the State arrest those officials who worked at the time and today are working at the Ministry of Industrial Policy and directing this complex, and those officials who have taken part in it, and today they may not be working or retired. And then it'll all be in place. If we don't do that, we're going to have to put this money back on the people's side, on the heads of the state, on the side of the budget, at the expense of the budget. If we do not set an example of this and find no order in this factory, we will continue this shameful practice, which is today, unfortunately, in Ukraine. That is why I support this bill in the first reading and ask for a second reading in the “Final Position”, Peter Mikolajovic, to include that officials of the prosecutor's office should make specific decisions under the Ukrainian Criminal Code in accordance with those officials who deliberately stole these enterprises in private interests. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u58	Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, from this rostrum, if you recall, we have repeatedly said that sooner or later, but Ukrainian society will return to the issue of an extremely deep issue: the socio-economic consequences of privatization in Ukraine. It's kind of a partial question, separate, specific. But, dear colleagues, remember, the privatisation of the Ukrainian sugar plant, which has now led to such a sharp price for sugar, has not happened in the same way. When a pseudo-owner came in and left behind empty, even ripped rails, other processing industries, and Rudprom. We have a lot of examples when it was said that privatization ended in a pogrom in the name of creating some monopolist for a particular type of agricultural product. One more. Agricultural machinery, the bulky industry, began in 2005. I'm talking to the fourth callers, do you remember the 2005 budget changes? The preferences of all laws on State support for domestic aircraft, on State support for domestic motor vehicles, on State support for shipbuilding, and on State support for domestic agricultural machinery were suspended. Instead of contributing to the creation of Metallurgy Holding and final production, such as machinery for agriculture or shipbuilding, we broke all of this. So today it is indeed good that Peter Mikolaiovich made this decision, not by law, because I do not know if it would be possible. Today, the question is extremely profound – it is a question of the social, legal responsibility of business to its people. I don't know, I'm not sure we can do it the way it says. But I'm more than convinced, not one privatizer, not one landlord, and the host has to think about how he's leading a privatized country with the permission of the Ukrainian State with it. Dear colleagues, when they were privatized, such as the Ternopil Combin factory, had already talked about this. Someone has given permission to privatize it into four parts: the smithy – separately, the assembly – separately, the beauty – separately. There is no Ternopil Combin factory. We don't have our agricultural tractor machinery, we don't have the White Church, we don't have Cyrustown. And Peter Mikolaiovich said that, perhaps not everyone had heard of it. But agricultural machinery, like Ukrainian automobiles, has no equal, it gives jobs to hundreds of industrial enterprises. I think it's a starting point, and this theme is going to have to go on. As the House votes, I find it difficult to say, but this subject needs to be further developed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u60	Samolikka Katerina Seminovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, regardless of the faction, I would ask you not to listen to the ex-head speech of the Ukrainian State Property Fund, but to vote in favour of the bill. And finally, show not only the Ukrainian people, but show the whole world that we can still punish those who are not working for the public interest, not for the people. I would ask you all to vote in favour of this bill. Indeed, it is the pride of our country’s machinery, the budgeting industry, and in the years of independence virtually destroyed, turned into a dump. And what can we talk about, how can we not vote on this law? There are 300 people left "to sweep the yard". Today, the new factories are being sold to pay off debts or before taxes, and even better in front of banks. I would very much ask you all to think about it, it's not just a cabin of some kind, it's a very large enterprise within our state and even within our former and great state. As to why it is not too late, we have come to you with this problem. I personally took care of this issue at our party's disposal, we held several working sessions of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, were given very fine orders by the Holding Foundation, the Attorney General's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs. [[if he's not pretty.]] Zero! The only thing you've decided to do is pay! A colleague who spoke and said that the salary was paid. From the stabilizing fund, a private person was given money for our insistence on paying people their wages. Can we continue to tolerate such an owner? Of course not! See how smartly they approached and covered their tracks. The Herson Combin factory called Petrovsky, the "Herson Combins", the Herson machine factory, and now the Bilocerk factory has been in debt, people have been out of work, and practically today it's not a Herson enterprise, but it's some sort of skinny, provincial Bilocerk company. And I am addressing all of you, we are being listened to by 13 million machine builders only by Hersonians, please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u62	Peter Mikolaiovich, is there a need in the closing word? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, I am very grateful for the principle and meaningful conversation that took place during the discussion of this project. So I'd like to stop you once again on a few questions. We're having a conversation about what the state and the private owner should be about, based on what you're talking about. And in this part, we need to adopt a law that will provide for the protection of national interests. That's the law I presented to you last week. It's different. I would like us not to be intimidated by the thesis of "nationalisation". Yeah, she's all over the world with this procedure. And the whole world is using this procedure when it comes to protecting national interests, whether it's technological, or it's other, maybe security, directly. As to what's going on today, and once again you can refer it to the committee, there, we're going to approve this commission that we're talking about here. But the trial is just a stretch, and it is deliberately delayed so as not to make the decision that is absolutely necessary today. Dozens of assignments can be given, Catherine Seminovna said about this and, in addition to my report, she said: “How many times in the Cabinet of Ministers have they considered this problem”, but it ended up with the same decisions regarding the train and haulage that have been practically hidden by crime and crime. That is why I propose today that it is not for the courts to decide this particular issue. And it's long overdue from the point of view of the solution here in the Supreme Council. And the last. Thank you for such a thorough, meaningful conversation, I suggest, let's really do this document as a document of the Supreme Council and anyone who wants to make an appropriate addition to this project, please let's do it, and let's look at it in a second reading as a whole document that takes into account your comments. Thank you again, and I invite everyone to support this draft law in the first reading, and for the second reading we will prepare, taking into account your comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u64	Thank you, Peter Mikolaiovich. Question completed. A proposal for approval is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Act on the return to state ownership of the entire property complex of the limited liability “Herson machine plant”. [[Registration number 4530]] I'd like to make a statement. [[11:33:57]] For 352 Decision taken. By factions, please show me. Region Party - 154, "Timoshenko Yulia Block" – 129, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" – 16, communists – 27, "Litvina Block" – 20, non-factional – 6.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u65	Dear National Deputies! Allow me to provide you with information about the meetings of the Conciliation Board. A meeting of the Conciliation Board discussed the issue of coalition. Representatives of the four factions: factions of the Party of the Regions, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense", factions of Communists and factions of the "Lituinian Block" found that there was no coalition as such. I will not go to the legal or political side of the matter here. Therefore, honourable national MPs, I inform you that the state of affairs is today, i.e., on March 2nd, there are no parliamentary documents of the parliamentary factions that formed a coalition of democratic, parliamentary factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine "National Development of Stability and Order", which was held at a plenary meeting of the Parliament, i.e. the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on February 17th, this year, and in which they confirm the presence of a coalition of Ukrainian national deputies. In accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine and the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I announce the cessation of the coalition of parliamentary factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine "National Development, Stability and Order". Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, now for the announcement. According to the minutes of the meeting of the deputy faction "Clocus of Yulia Timoshenko" of 2 March 2010, I report that the faction has reversed its decision of 8 March 2009 to exclude the factions of Ukrainian national deputies Zadirka Hennadija Alexandrovich and Kaplienka Volodymira Volodymyrovic from the faction of the Ukrainian people's deputies, since 22 October 2009, regarding the exclusion from the faction of the Ukrainian national deputy Omelchenka Grigorija Omelanovic. Thus, on the basis of article 59 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ukrainian National Deputies Zadirko Hennadiy Aleksandrovich, Capliyenko Vladimir Volodymyrovic, Omelchenko Grigory Omelanovic, are members of the deputy faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. That's what they should be asked, I'm making a decision of the faction. One minute at a time. Please, Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, what has just happened has a legal precedent. The law, it turns out, has reverse power, and we create very dangerous practices for the future. Unfortunately, we created it earlier by voting for the abolition of local elections. We're going to break the Constitution. That's the first one. And the second. Today, our partners from "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" have really testified to their withdrawal from the coalition, but this is not the decision of the entire faction, the faction has not taken such a decision and, unfortunately, the decision of the Lithuanian Block. In fact, they left the coalition, stopping or eliminating its work. Unfortunately, this should also be said in front of all society, in front of all the voters who stood in the wake of the destruction of the democratic coalition. We find that now, as a covert fact.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u67	Please, Alexander Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, I am surprised when Parliamentary colleagues ignore the fundamental truths that factions are taking decisions on the Conciliation Council -- that is a fact. It is a fact that the four factions of the faction have recorded the truth that the whole country and the whole State know: that the coalitions and de facto and de jure have not been and are not. And, in fact, what Vladimir Mihajlovich announced only underscores the truth that has been repeated all over the past months. In the end, I would ask our colleagues not to continue the agony that you are prolonging, but to look at the situation that is in the State from a different point of view. Your Government has led our State to a situation where the economy is completely bankrupt, when there is virtually no financial existence, where more and more consultants are talking about the technical deflation of the State. That's why it's necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u69	John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u70	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian National Party. Clearly, the announcement that the coalition does not work is not legal. For indeed the law has no reverse force, and it was necessary when the Act “On the Rules of the Supreme Council” was adopted in the Transitional Regulations to indicate that such, such acts should be carried out to confirm this law, because at least the Supreme Council should adopt a separate decree, and to begin with that separate decree to specify order. And what Vladimir Mikhailovich just said is, well, that's just his statement. That's the first one. And the second. I wouldn't want the "Timoshenko Yulia Block" so, you know, everyone in one row to be covered that it was they who broke the coalition. I think if there are no votes, you've stimulated this process, the gathering of these voices, then take responsibility. There is no legal reason for any congregation today, no decision. You did it specifically to translate or assign someone else to the collapse of the coalition.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u71	Thank you. Everything? Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Law on Amendments to the Law of Ukraine is under review. What? The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on First-Prime Measures to Prevent the Negative Consequences of the Financial Crisis and to Amend certain legislative acts of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the promotion of enterprises of strategic importance to the economy and security of the State]] Rapporteur – Ukrainian National Deputy Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, co-rapporteur – head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy Sergey Anatoliyovich Teryohin. Registration number 4447. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, your view is presented by a draft law that was drafted and proposed for consideration by the Supreme Council on May 7, 2009, when in the first quarter of 2009, there was a very difficult financial situation in many enterprises that were strategically important for the economy and security of Ukraine and to ensure the employment of hundreds of thousands of citizens. It really is. On one side. On the other hand, you and I have witnessed that it was the government's credit policy that did not contribute to the crisis of the crisis and the organization of these enterprises, but rather made their work very difficult with very serious loads, very high interest rates. And you know very well, because there's a lot of business owners among you. Well, how can you set a 25 or more interest rate in a crisis? It's clear that it's just destroying our domestic manufacturer. Just when the pressure on the manufacturer was increasing, we tried to offer at least the first step to support it. Because the parallel load was due to what is happening in the expansion and capture of our internal market as just a foreign producer. Dear comrades, dear friends, dear colleagues, let's take a look at the street with you and the cars we're going to see? Foreign, not Ukrainian. Let's take a look at whose household technology are Ukrainian citizens today? Foreign technology, electrical computing, and other techniques. Foreign. What are they wearing? A foreign producer is also called a foreign producer. Today, food is being imported from abroad, not from a manufacturer. So at the time, the faction of the Company and I personally offered a real step to protect our own producer today, to help him eliminate the problem of unemployment, and to open our Ukrainian internal market. And then, ladies and gentlemen, I think we should have taken into account what's happening today and what's going on is the actual volume of industrial production, almost 22 percent. The real income of the State budget is again falling by almost 16 percent. No salary paid, almost 1.7 billion. Unemployment has now reached 9.4 percent. And you know, based on the estimates made by specialist experts, unemployment in Ukraine could be around 3.5 million of our citizens this year. You and I have seen our production decline today. And we just think that today we need to support our real manufacturer. Why am I insisting on this, Your Honor, when we're talking about real interest rates? I'd like to suggest to you exactly what's going on abroad today in a crisis situation. United States Federal Reserve Interest Rate - 0.25 per cent, European Central Bank - 1 per cent, Bank of Japan - 0.1 per cent, Bank of Canada - 0.25 per cent, Bank of England - 0.5, Bank of Switzerland - 0.25, Bank of Sweden - 0.25, Bank of Norway - 1 per cent 75 per cent, Bank of Denmark - 1 per cent 15 per cent, Bank of Australia - 3.75 and Bank of New Zealand - 2.5. And in Ukraine, almost 30 percent today is the credit rate. That's why we're proposing first of all today at this session, looking at our draft law, just to make a decision. This law stipulates that, in order to support enterprises that are strategically important to the economy and security of the state, the National Bank of Ukraine is obliged to set up an interest rate of not more than 3 percent. Next. Banking institutions that lend the enterprises listed in this draft law limit the maximum credit rate to 5 per cent of the year-on-year provided that the funds for such credit are received by the banking institutions at the premium rate of the National Bank of Ukraine. We have certainly offered you a list of strategically important enterprises. This list is the result of being recognized by the Cabinet of Ministers, who have already determined which enterprises are strategic. Practically in the industrial sector, in the section of every city where there are such enterprises, this proposal is designed. So, ladies and gentlemen, we would like to consider today what is very important, that is, State support, regardless of the forms of ownership, financing for the organization of work, the provision of jobs and the development of our industrial complex as our manufacturer. I'm convinced that conscious national MPs, aware of, first of all, from what they know well, what the situation is in our country today, and what very dangerous trends are in development, you will support this bill. No matter who owns the banks, no matter who owns the so - called banking business has certain incomes and profits. I'm convinced that if there are patriots in the Supreme Council of the people of Ukraine, they want to support a real producer, which means saving jobs, which means, first of all, stabilizing with wage levels. This is the filling of our internal market, this is the next step that we're going to propose, this is lending, first of all, and the population to buy Ukrainian products, and so we're going to support the Ukrainian producer. And it's going to be the credit to our demand, to our population. So today I'm proposing to your consideration, your esteemed colleagues, first of all, of the state importance of the decision, and I propose, and I ask you to support this project in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u73	Let's sign up for a question to the reporter. Smithuh Grigori Yudkomovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u74	Petr Nikolayevich, Smithyuh, Party of Regions. Please tell me what you're suggesting, in my opinion, is very specific because, if you look at Ukraine's independence, the financial institutions of Ukraine's banking system no longer belong to Ukraine, and they belong to Western or other investors called so-called, who are certainly not concerned about the development of Ukraine's economic potential. And they work at speculative stakes there, and they take advantage of what we call non-professionalism on our mountain. Please tell me, why don't you even suggest we limit banks' activities by type, like, for example, we regulate today's bread prices? We're regulating. Are we regulating electricity for the population? We're regulating. Why not at all provide such a state position for a transitional period so that the credit rate does not exceed 5 percent? How do you feel about this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u75	I'm being positive. That's why I proposed this bill. But what you've asked as a question to me, it really should continue to be a development in the decisions of the Supreme Council. What's the plan? We need to understand with you how the banking system of Ukraine is today. You know very well who sold the Swedish bank. Do you know where the Bank of Avalon went, under whose control did it come from? You know exactly what happened to B.I.B. and all that. So these banks are supposed to finance today and contribute to the development of our manufacturer, unfortunately, but they're mostly doing a completely different function. So I'm convinced that after this decision, we're going to ask you a question about what kind of government banking system we have today? Maybe we need to create more, maybe support the owner of our Ukrainian banks that support the manufacturer in real terms, and allow him to earn the income he generates from supporting the real manufacturer, that is, the real economy sector. Not at any currency or other financial heat, for example.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u76	Pavlovsky Andry Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u77	Dear Peter Mikolaiovich, you have provided interesting information about the accounts in other countries and the United States Federal Reserve System. And it should also be remembered that when the Great Depression and the United States came out of it, then the billing rate was zero for several years at all. And I have a question. You're here about defining strategic enterprises, but maybe the incomprehensible concept of strategic, maybe on a legislative level, determine what we have under a strategic enterprise, some criteria. And on the other hand, it's a list, so how does this list come together, who's going to make it, who's going to approve it, the Supreme Council, or the Cabinet of Ministers by their own decree? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u78	I want to confirm again what you said. And when the years of the Great Depression as the Federal Reserve system were then used this opportunity to set up a credit rate that would help develop the manufacturer, not destroy its potential and capabilities. Today the world has also responded, and you can see that the banking system is functioning adequately there, based on national interests. And unfortunately, the banking system, I'm sorry, but it's on "unattached content," so I would define the status of the banking system of Ukraine today. That's why we need to protect our national interests, set certain rules of the game and determine for them. What has something to do with listing strategically important enterprises. I want to emphasize once again, this list I've taken, based on, and based on the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers, this list is in the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers, and this list is, let's say, this scientific term, I'd like to say, that's what the reference apparatus defines as, let's say, these enterprises are called strategic enterprises. I'm sure if we do.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u79	Arjewitin Stanislav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u80	Dear author, in your bill, you have proposed a new terminology called the 'Pulse Formal Rate', which no one can read from the National Bank to a simple banker. So I have the impression that you're not feeling a lot of differences, and so my question is, please tell me, in your mind, the National Bank's balance sheet, and what are the factors that affect it? That's the first question. And please tell me, what's the difference between the National Bank's account rate and the National Bank's refinancing rate? I would like to find out how much you feel about this difference. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u81	So I don't think you and I have a theoretical seminar here, so let's say we ask you some questions. I can do this on my own with you to take advantage of this opportunity and sometimes explain to you as a banker what it is. If you don't understand, then why are you in the Supreme Council here, I don't understand either? And it's a very different matter, the responsibility of the state. And in order not to give the banking mafia today, the banking mafia today to abuse the manufacturer, and to order the destruction of our economic potential, I proposed. If there's something you don't like about the pay-as-you-form rate, I figured out that we made a list of enterprises that would benefit from a certain state benefit. That's why I called it, and it would be better for everyone today to determine that the ceiling is 3 percent and no more, then I wouldn't use it as a "indulgence credit rate". So I've come out of a particular situation that I've drawn up a list of 400 enterprises, and that's exactly what this rule is going to be for them right now. I think you understand what this is about, you just want to distract yourself from being on the side of the banking mafia.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u82	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u83	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Peter Mikolaiovich, I am not on the side of the banking mafia, on the contrary, I have long ago demanded that Mr. Stelmach be questioned, which is illegal since December 17, I remind you. And the National Bank, the highest institution today is under the control of an illegal person. Just as the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine for 2 years is under the control of an illegal person. And we're doing nothing here, and the light's not out. By sharing the approach to the adoption of this law, I'm asking you, don't you think it's necessary to define, i.e. give a separate article, except for these four articles that you're introducing, to define a term, particularly maybe, and to define a term that is an enterprise that has strategic significance, assuming in it, that maybe it's a state-owned enterprise or an enterprise that has more than 50 percent of state-owned property, because I've gone over this list. That's where we'll help.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u84	Regarding the list. I really do, once again, reaffirm what was in principle for me. For me, it wasn't what property it was, it was what it took to provide jobs for the people of Ukraine. To make money in the family. To regulate price policy in the market, it's just an opportunity to implement our products and things like that. That's what I used. So understanding that if we just go after the scheme, that state-owned enterprises, there's only 10 percent left, and that's very limited by the number of enterprises that work. So once again, I want to emphasize what it would be like for me. I was just saying that metal needs to be delivered to the internal market, and you know it. Everyone explains that a large credit, more loyal, interest rate and internal market metal is more expensive than in external markets. It can't be like that. Regardless of the form of ownership, you have to give the exact metal that the shipbuilding companies are going to use, the power plant building, the machine building complex in general, so I've provided this approach. Kulczynski Mikola Georgievich
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u85	Please pass on the word to Stanislav Arzvetin, who is one of the best experts in banking.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u86	Your Honor, I have asked you my question as to a man who has written more than one bill. And you know, if there's a new term that doesn't exist in circulation, it needs to be explained. That's why I came to you. What is the “indemnity rate of the National Bank? If you say it on a household level and you don't figure it out, it's basically half-pregnant. So I asked you a question. And what I want to say to you is that the bill rate is the direction of money engagement, and it's not completely defined, and you should know that as the legislator. And that's why I have a question for you. Please tell me, what's the level of the National Bank's account rate today? Because what you wrote in your explanation is a three-year-old figure. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u87	So, once again, my dear colleague, I would like to express my point of view. I'm a proponent and proponent of the National Bank actually working for the national economy, not supporting the dollar evacuation schemes and mechanisms in Ukraine. I said against this strongly that the National Bank should work in the interests of the people of Ukraine and in the laws of Ukraine, not in accordance with the instructions of the International Monetary Fund, but in the fact that they are practically tearing the National Bank away from the state of our state factor. I'm sure that's exactly the state's position. Regarding the terminology again, the “indulgence rate”. I've already given you an answer, based on the fact that it's touching exactly these 400 companies, and for them today we're creating this. What has something to do with the National Bank today is 10 percent. Well, of course, so let's say it's also very high, and given that commercial banks under 25 percent give credit, of course, they earn from the public resources what they then take from the vast majority of our citizens in their pockets.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u88	Thank you, Peter Mikolaiovich. Have a seat, please. Let's sign up for a discussion. Paul’s Andrew Mikhailovich will be the first to speak after the break. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats in the session room. Invite the deputies to the session room. We're continuing our review of the bill's draft registration number 4447. Now, dear colleagues, speak from the factions in the discussion. Pavlovski People's Deputy, faction of the “Blanket of Yulia Timoshenko”. Prepare Soloshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u90	Honorable national MPs, if you look at the experience of the developed countries of the world, especially the European Union, of the same United States, what governments did when the crisis first began. This has dramatically strengthened government regulation in the financial and banking sector. This, in turn, led to lower credit rates for its own industrial enterprises. And as the reporter told us, the accounting rate is now in these countries, in most of these countries, less than one percent. I want to remind you once again that in the same United States, when they got out of the Great Depression, the federal reserve system has been zero for several years. But how has this been accomplished? And this was achieved on the basis of the social compromise between the banking and industrial capital of the United States, but it was, frankly, under the authority of President Roosevelt's administration. So the state has to do similar functions. I would like to point out that in the bill before us, it is proposed that the National Bank be obliged to set up an interest rate of not more than 3 percent to those banking institutions that are designed to lend so - called strategic enterprises with a rate of at least five percent per year. Indeed, the industry itself, especially those that will be recognized as strategic, needs to be supported. But at the same time, then we need a clear legislative definition of what a strategic enterprise is, what criteria they meet. And I want to point out, unfortunately, that most of the companies that we think are strategic, they're now in private hands, and should we support the private owner if he's vulnerable and sometimes wrongly got these enterprises? And they belong to the majority of these large businesses and large banks, to ten family clans that are called oligarchs in the people. Are we going to support state enterprises or are we going to support oligarchs? And this also has to be determined, as well as the list of these enterprises, who's going to finally define it. And in principle, I think it's the right idea, and in times of crisis, we need to reinforce state regulations, including in the banking and financial sphere. But it may be necessary not only to do so, but also to do so before the Banking Act, a number of other bills will also need to develop appropriate changes to make it a system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, we now give the floor to the National Deputy Soloshenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Then there'll be Mikola Kravchenko. No Soloshenko? He's giving up the word. So, Mikola Kravchenko, the Communist faction, then Yuri Carmazin will perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u92	Kravchenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I would like to note today our meeting as historic in that, for the first time in so many years, the previous law that we have considered has been adopted by a consensual majority, and the MPs have all shown a public approach, not a personal one, but a public approach to those issues that have been addressed in that law. This law is practically an anti-crisis law, not just one; it is essentially an anti-crisis law. And the government had to lobby it in front of the steam engine smoke and accept it as quickly as possible. With regard to the comments that are being made today, there are fears. There's a lot of fear about the list. Dear colleagues, this list is not dogmatically drawn up, it is drawn up on the basis of a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, which has been determined that, in the event of their collapse or a change in the working or deterioration of work, these enterprises will have a significant impact on the economy. That's the point of the strategic direction. This is the essence of the innovation proposed by Petr Nikolaevich Simonenko as the author. It is precisely that all sectors of the economy today need to work for the final outcome, to work specifically for the economy, for the State. And more importantly, this bill shows us that it is necessary to finally gather, sit and solve the problem of the National Bank's monopolies. Today, the National Bank, virtually as a sacred cow in India, exists in itself, a splinter of the economy itself, and is managed manually by former President Yushchenko in this case. This has created such major failures in the economy that require special investigation and special consideration. I therefore believe that the National Bank Act should be amended. And the last. I invite and call upon all deputies to vote in favour of this law. There are different forms of property. But it is an enterprise that has a significant impact on the security of the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u93	Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. I'd like to introduce you to the show.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u94	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! I'd like to ask you. Look, we don't have a half room, it's because of the statement you made. I don't think it's legislatively correct and balanced, so we have to call people somehow, because we're going to break all the bills, we're not going to be able to accept them. As we consider this law, I would like to ask ourselves questions. We all compare the situation of Ukraine and say that the government is bad, a government that has failed and so on. And why don't we compare that nowhere in the world has bank rates like ours. I'm talking to my banker colleagues: you're here often protecting, lobbying banking interests. I want to ask you, where in the world is this bank position? Where else in the world when the whole industry's almost broke down, do bankers get billions of dollars? And where there is still a world where the head of the National Bank of the country is not legitimately predicted. Wasn't she in a constitutional way already in office? So, I'm convinced that this law can exist and has the right to exist, and I'm going to ask it to support it. I just want us to change it. What? We need to anticipate criteria for defining what an enterprise is strategically important for the economy and narrow down, Peter Mikolajovich, the list of these enterprises, by limiting it to those lists of enterprises that refer to state ownership that are strategically important for the economy and security of the state. And that is what governs the government, and that is where the government forms its list, which is bound by the Ukrainian Act on State Property Management. And there are not ten percent of these objects left. And given where the fortune is, and where it's blocking, there's 25 percent, there's 50 percent, I'm not talking about 100 percent. And first of all, give money there, first of all not to support offshore firms and others who own it today, including these businesses. Because now you're going to look at those enterprises in line with the feudosian shipbuilding company Sea, which has made the best ships in the world on submarine pillows and so on, that we don't need our fleet today. It's necessary, but there's nothing to pay for. But we're talking about ownership, about ownership of all the enterprises that are defined here, many of them belong to oligarchs. So I would like to limit this to government property, which has at least one piece.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u95	Finish up, please. Do you have everyone? Now Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions. The next one will be Arjovitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u96	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I believe that this law is not only necessary, it is essential to our nation if we want to remain as civilized or as a state that can govern the process in which Ukraine is today. That's why. You remember that we entered a market relationship, joined countries with a market economy. You remember that Ukraine has signed the Soviet protocols, and you remember that Ukraine is within the same limits that it does not meet or that the conditions provided for its accession do not meet the developed countries. And today the economy of Ukraine cannot be restored without lending in a highly regulated process. Why did Ukraine end up today? Because we give the National Bank, and the National Bank creates whatever rights it gives them, the National Bank together with commercial banks, by the way, commercial banks, most banks, up to 70 percent no longer belong to Ukraine, and Western investors create in the Ukrainian financial market whatever. Today, there is no business to be able to take credit for any kind of manufacturing program. There are speculative, there are commercial loans that are short loans. No business can be credited on large or long-term programs, no matter how important we are, the equipment, the machines, the planes -- no business can be held at credit rates that provide 30 percent or more, can function normally. What should Ukraine do? Limiting and not giving any category of benefits or no benefits, as the terminology says, limit all banks without exception in financing that this credit rate in today's world should not increase 5 percent, that's maximum. That's the first question. I don't agree with the author of the bill on the part that he wants to give certain categories to strategic enterprises. What about other businesses? What should be done to the Ukrainian peasant who produces the fat that is needed for Ukraine, or the meat that Ukraine imports every year? Is she not a subject? Is it not guaranteed by the State and the Constitution as equal rights and equal opportunities? The Ukrainian Constitution regulates this issue, manages these issues, and clearly states that all subjects have equal rights. So I have to go to the author: take down this list and create a level playing field for everyone without the exception of businesses. And the last. The banking system should not be allowed to rob people in a critical situation, nor should the State intervene in this process. And the last. If it has happened that the National Bank is not in a position to react, the Supreme Council should assume these functions and limit the activities of the National Bank in terms of granting credit to high interest rates. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u97	The People's Deputy Arjewitin, the faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Peter Cibenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u98	Stanislav Arjewitin, group “For Ukraine!” Indeed, the real sector of the economy needs to be supported, but of course not in this way. And that's not my own conclusion, that's what all the state institutions that have been looking at this bill have said. You can just count 400 enterprises times 50 million, on the average we're going to have an astronomical sum. If anyone has a recipe for where to find this money, please call it in this room. Next, about the bill. The National Bank’s calculation rate, once again, would like to highlight this, the cost-of- and-delivery orientation for monetary-credit market entities. This is the orientation, not the absolute price value, and it's shaped depending on the processes that are taking place in the macroeconomic, budgetary and monetary sectors. In other words, the bill cannot be set by administrative means, or any bill in this room, because it is an economic category and it represents the state's economy. In determining the account rate, the current and projected inflation rates, inflation and devaluation expectations, risks in the country, and many other factors are taken into account. The National Bank’s calculation rate is also determined by taking into account the stability of the monetary unit. The very term “plum-shaped rate”, which is introduced for the first time, I have already said that this is essentially an absurd economic category, or a household term for “half the pregnancy”. On the ground today, the author brought experience to other countries of the world, but forgot to say one thing that this rate works for all entrepreneurs, not for individual enterprises, and is also accounted for with the expected level of inflation and the consequences of this inflation. I don't know if the author understands it or deliberately hides it, at 30 percent of the inflation rate, to give up three percent, I think it's an economic absurdity that would double, triple inflation. This will lead to higher prices and, of course, devaluation of bracelets. The bill does not give any figures as far as these 400 businesses are concerned. The law doesn't justify why 3, 4, not 1, why not 0. Next. I think that the fact that in this list there are more laws about enterprises that have private ownership, I think that's also wrong. I remind you, in accordance with the Ukrainian Code of Masters, that the State guarantees all businesses and businesses, regardless of the form of ownership, the level of rights and the level of opportunity to conduct entrepreneurial activities, the level of competition rights, this is the Code of Lords. All state institutions rejected the bill, the committee did not consider it and wrote a letter to the Supreme Council three times: “Send it to the Banking Committee”. I would like to remind you that the Constitution of Ukraine, among other things, does not provide for Parliament's powers to regulate public monetary policy, including the setting of prices for the location and inclusion of funds. These are priorities, the legislative norm of the National Bank Board or the government of the National Bank. So I ask you to reject this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u99	Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, Communist faction
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u100	Peter Cibenko, Communist faction, Head of the Ukrainian Veterans Organization Council Dear colleagues, distinguished voters. To understand what this is about and to make the right, conscious, balanced decision, we need to go back a while. So in the autumn of 2008, the global financial economic crisis is slamming through the door of Ukraine. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is submitting to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft legislative proposal to counter the devastating consequences of the crisis. The Communist Party of Ukraine and its faction in the Supreme Council were the only political force to submit an alternative package of documents. Unfortunately, most supported the package of documents offered by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Once again, unfortunately, a package of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine was adopted. How did these approaches differ? Here's the thing. The main content of the Cabinet of Ministers' package was the slogan “Save the Banking System!” And let us save it at any cost, including through the poverty and extinction of people. The package of documents offered by the Communist faction focused on the real manufacturing sector and the specific average person. Because we thought that if we saved the real manufacturing sector and the average citizen, the investor, we would save the banking system. Our approach enabled us to preserve the real economy, save jobs, fill budgets, fill trust funds, and end up paying wages and pensions. Because today, there's nothing like paying pensions. Do you remember one of the apologists and builders of wild capitalism in Ukraine, who was and remains Mr. Pinzenik to call the bankers “bank selfishness”? I call the actions of bankers in this situation not selfishness but thieving. In particular, I would like to point out that the most affected by this marauding has been veteranism. Thus, the changes proposed by Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko and the situation should be brought to normal civilisation. Because the figures quoted by the author of the bill on the size of accounts in Ukraine and elsewhere in the world say that Ukraine is far beyond the civilized world. So, honourable colleagues, I'm asking everyone to support this draft law in the first reading, and once again, I want to stress normalizing this situation in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u101	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. [[Registration number 4447]] The final word is given by the reporter Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, once again I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this is really an anti-crisis law and it allows us today to support our real producer. It's different. I am very grateful for the harshness with which you discussed and the principle with which you proposed. Let's all create equal terms, and in this case let's just limit this interest rate right over here, let's say, 5 percent and put a dot on that. I support that position. I was going out. When preparing this project from what, indeed, resources are almost today and you have to figure out how to support the manufacturer and what this will actually do to take away the social, first and foremost, tension. But some in the discussion today do not understand what needs to be answered. Why will the people be poor every day and the bankers are fat?Oh, my God! So why is this happening?Oh, my God! When the company doesn't work, and the banker's fatting on what's in our pockets and out of our pockets. We have to answer today the question that has to do with what the bank is called the National Bank, because it works for Ukraine, not for what they are now doing by getting the same money out of Ukraine. Your Honor, I'm here to address all of us. Don't we know how much they take from us when they demand cash to make, let's say, a refund rate or, let's say, a refund. What does Mr. Argewitten not know? He knows well, so he's fighting for these percentages, because Arzhivism is the destruction of the national economy today. And this arževistism is a threat to Ukraine. Right over here we have to put a dot and not give it a chance to those who, for their percentages, are fighting in their pocket and it's protecting this capital, which is destroying the national economy. So I'm talking to all of you who call themselves conscious and say, let's support this draft law for second reading, and we'll prepare what they're proposing. I definitely support it. Really, I have to be limited, and I have stood in this position, but I have come out of the reality of the specifics. And that's regardless of the form of ownership we support our manufacturer. Why did I put together this list of companies that we said were strategically important? And because I was coming out of the next one. When he gets a loan, he gets it under a specific program, not just for something he gets that loan. And that means that it's already regulation of how the market is being filled, whether it's a necessary product, or whether it's again, so let's say, we're building some chimeras. So, Your Honor, I am confident that you will support this bill. Let's take the next step together to support our manufacturer regardless of the form of ownership, but in preparing for the second reading, we're going to fix it all the way you thought it would be necessary for this law to be better today, and we've really taken a step towards getting Ukraine out of the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u103	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we are about to vote, and then you will have a line. Finally, you will have a discussion of the question and the reply. Please do so, dear colleagues, a reply after the question has been considered. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill to amend the Ukrainian Law on First-Prime Measures to Prevent the Negative Effects of the Financial Crisis has been discussed and some legislative acts of Ukraine have been amended. [[on the promotion of enterprises of strategic importance to the economy and security of the State]] I'm voting on the first proposal to adopt draft law registration number 4447. Please vote. Based on the base. [[12:55:56]] For 168 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 110, “Timoshenko Yulia Block” – 11, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” – 2, Communists – 27, “Litvina Block” – 16, “Afterfractional” – 2. I'll bet you a vote on re-reading. Please vote. [[12:56:31]] For 208 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Stanislav Arzhewitten has the right to a replica. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u104	Peter Mikolaiovich, thank you for reminding me. But I would like to remind you that if today we had the opportunity to give the banking system under 5 percent of 300 or 400 billion, everyone would thank you, but unfortunately there are no funds in our country. Next. I'd like to remind you. There's been a lot of talk about how the banking system is being fatted. I'll give you some figures: over the last year, every third loan in the economy didn't come back, and in that connection, last year's banking system received, think about it, 40 billion losses -- the result of the banking system's activity last year. But despite this, the banking system makes payments, the country's blood system works. So I'd like you not to impose on this bill that someone doesn't like, there's Stelma, the National Bank. We're talking about that there's no such resource in the country. And the world experience says that this should be with inflation in comparison, not with what we have: politically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, there are no lines on the line. Come on, we're going to the Rules. Please! A draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Judiciality of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on ensuring the unconditional enforcement of court decisions]] [[Registration number 5165]] Reporter: National Deputy of Ukraine Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin The Coroner is the head of the Justice Committee's subcommittee, Novikov Yulia Volodymyrna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u106	Dear National Deputies! The adoption of the draft Law on Amendments to the Code of Administrative Judiciality of Ukraine, which introduces national deputies Bondik, Moses, Bodnar Olga Borissovna, Dove Oleksandar Volodymyrovich, Bilozur Oksana Volodymyr and I, is called upon to fundamentally change the ignoring of subjects of authority, decisions of the courts and to ensure their actual implementation. [[on the enforcement of court decisions]] The European Convention on Human Rights, article 6.1, establishes the right of everyone to a public hearing for a reasonable period of time. By also implementing the standard of article 124 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which establishes that judicial decisions are approved by the courts in the name of Ukraine and are binding on enforcement throughout Ukraine, a legal and natural person who has applied for an appeal to an administrative court has been appointed a two - month term in the shortest term for administrative matters. However, the obligation to deal with these cases by the Administrative Courts makes no sense, since most decisions are made in an orderly fashion and sometimes are calculated over years. And before that, it does not always complete the actual execution of the court’s decision. Such a state of enforcement of decisions by administrative courts is unacceptable, as the main task of administrative justice is to protect the rights, freedoms and interests of natural persons, the rights and interests of legal persons in the field of public and legal relations in relation to violations by public authorities, the local self-government bodies of their officials and officials, other entities in the exercise of their administrative functions on the basis of legislation, including the exercise of delegated powers. This is part of article 2 of the Code of Administrative Justice. This is why the actual execution of a court’s decision by a body of authority is the final stage in the protection of rights and should contribute to the implementation of laws and the strengthening of the authority of the State as a whole. Sadly, this does not contribute to the unsatisfying state of execution of judicial decisions. You know, we asked for some information about that. To get full generalization, we couldn't get it. But the council, which provides for the non-consultative activities of the administrative judiciary of the Vinnick district administration, has given us data that since April 2007, from the beginning of this court, 3,000,221 court decisions have been made, for which 3,000,722 executive letters have been issued. In fact, only 188 decisions were made. 188. I mean, 6 percent. And to that end, to prepare this project, we have examined the legislation of a number of countries that regulate the administrative judiciary of a number of European countries. Particularly France, Germany, the Netherlands, Poland, Estonia And by generalizing these conclusions, I, if anyone is interested in what country they're doing, I'll say that starting with France, where, if no decision is made by legal persons exercising administrative powers, the court may declare an astrantine in the event of failure to execute a court decision and the requirements of astretariat to the office of legal persons subject to a fine. [[It's a foam that grows in the event of a commitment made.]] Yes, in France. With regard to Poland, there, too, in the case of a full or partial failure to comply with the court’s decision, the court may order an administrative body to execute it before payment of the fine. The fine is determined by the size of up to 10 times the average monthly income in the economic activity sector. The court’s decision to impose a fine shall immediately apply to the execution of the order of execution. Estonia. There, too, the court may impose a fine of up to ten thousand crowns on those involved in the proceedings guilty of failure to comply with the ruling contained in the court’s decision. So it's all about what's really important and what's serious is what's happening. We don't have that in the state. Therefore, we propose to amend articles 257, 267 and 269 of the Code of Administrative Justice and to supplement it with article 273. In these articles, article 257 provides that decisions on the abolition of the subject of authority and on the admission of citizens to the public service should be made on a voluntary basis in the ten - day period, for example, because they do not require additional executions by the public service authorities. The other one. In paragraph 3, article 257 of the KAS of Ukraine, it must be the Court of Appeal that has reopened the term of appeal because the Code of Procedure does not specify which court decides on the matter, allowing double treatment. Paragraph 4, Article 257 of the KAS of Ukraine should be supplemented by a mechanism which would allow the court to ask the competent authorities to examine the issue of criminal liability in the event of information on non-execution of a court decision. The fourth position we're proposing. Article 269 of the KAS of Ukraine to supplement with an additional step of procedural coercion with a fine, that's like what I've given you in other countries. Fifth. To complement the KAS of Ukraine with article 273 on the order and the grounds for the application of the fine. In particular, it should be noted that a fine of between 100 and 200 untaxed minimum citizens' incomes may be applied by the court in the following cases: for failure to appear without reasonable grounds to challenge the court, for failure to provide evidence without valid reasons tested by the court, and for failure to report on the reasons for failure to comply, for failure to report on the execution of a court decision or for improperly carrying out a report to the relevant public authority by way of withdrawing funds from its registration account or to the head of that body, for failing to comply with other requirements of a court decision that results in an unjustified delay in judicial proceedings. Furthermore, article 267 KAS of Ukraine provides for the possibility for the court to require a person of authority who is not entitled to a court decision to report to the court on the execution of a court decision. It is proposed that paragraph 2 of Article 267 of the KAS of Ukraine be supplemented by appropriate control mechanisms for reporting the execution of a court decision. Because it is a report on the execution of a court decision that enables the court to take part in ensuring the outcome of its activities, in the actual execution of judicial decisions. That is why we think that the outcome of a hearing or a report in the event that it does not arrive within the prescribed time limit should give the judge the right to decide the case, to check the grounds for its absence or not to execute the court’s decision within three days. During the review of the report, the appearance of the parties is not mandatory. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that such a law on making these changes that it has supported, thanks to them, and the Scientific and Experimental Authority, and thank you for your observations to all the law-enforcement officials who have made their observations, it will help to restore the guarantee of constitutional rights of citizens. Because 6 percent of court decisions are based on the fact that there is a judicial machine on its own, the rights of citizens on our own, and we only make it clear that we have something to protect some rights and we don't give the court a mechanism. Right through the reporting mechanism, through the fine mechanism, we propose to force these decisions to be implemented. Of course, if these decisions are legal, impartial, they are consistent with the Constitution, and I hope they will. I have completed my report, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u107	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question to the reporter. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Oleg Zarubinski, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u108	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. Honourable Yuri Anatoliyovich, the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences provides for disrespect for the court, which has been expressed in a viciously absconded court appearance of a witness, the victim, the defendant, the defendant, the defendant, and the administrative responsibility of 102 to 204 bracelets. [[Article 185.3]] So, please tell me, how is a lawyer an obstacle to a person who refuses to come to court so badly, so a fine of 100 dollars is an obstacle to keeping him from obstructing the trial? Do you not think that this norm should be increased and substantially increased in order for motivation and incentives to appear at court hearings? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u109	Thank you. In your own question, Mr. Olege, you actually said the answer is that it's obviously not. What's more, I've already called from this rostrum all the strong national MPs, all of whom are in pain for the state of legislation: let's change the Code of Administrative Offences, which has been for a very long time, and you know that it hasn't answered anything for a long time. Therefore, it is clear that these changes that we propose to make to Article 273 “The penalty” will be a special norm for these matters in terms of the citizen’s relationship with the State or with the authorities of the State. And since we predict that their size will be completely different, it will be sufficient to force respect, let's say, for the judiciary. But it will also discipline the courts themselves, I'm sure. And as for this codex, I'm willing to work with you to improve it, and thank you for the tip, but it also applies to everyone who's in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u110	Alla Alexandrovska, Communist faction. 13.10. 04
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u111	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Yuri Anatolievich, the idea of your bill is understandable, but I think you will agree that we have citizens in Ukraine today in most of our vast majority. Despite the provisions of the Constitution, although it seemed that a legal citizen and society were parity, a national of the State existed in laws, in fact Ukrainians were not entitled. Regrettably, your proposals have equal effects on both the authorities, the officials and the citizens. In view of the total injustice of citizens, in view of the total violation of the rights of citizens, it may be necessary to draw more attention to the responsibility of the authorities. Therefore, I propose in your bill that all penalties for citizens be deleted. I believe that they will be misused against people.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u112	I thank you for asking. You know, you said something about injustice. Now it seems from our faction that our faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" has made a decision, in a verbal way, to get out of the coalition. This was claimed to be in the head of the Supreme Council. I'm telling you, there's never been a decision like this, but there's been a decision that we stay in the coalition. And if I, the Ukrainian national MP, feel illegal in this case, what do I have to do, go complain to my colleague or to my speaker, to the head of the Supreme Council, what do you leave me? I assume that the head of any body, that is, a legal person, is also a citizen. But we just have to recreate the legal culture, the legal culture in society. And that's what we're all asking -- from the Head of Nazbank, from the President, from each and every one of us with you. That's a rebirth. Because of this, I would ask you, let's take another look, and you will support this bill, me.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u113	Sergey Greenewecki, Lithuanian Block faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u114	Thank you. Greenewic, faction of the Lithuanian Block. Dear Yuri Anatoliyovich, it is clear that the mass failure of the administrative courts' decisions is first of all a testimony that state registration, legal nihilism and corruption have become a means of administration in the state. And I take it positively that you are proposing to allow the judges of the administrative courts to quickly apply to entities of authority that ignore decisions, such influences of weights as fines, discharges from positions, and it is predicted that those who work in public authorities, local self-government. Do you consider it necessary to make appropriate changes to the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers, to local government administrations, and to local government? Because especially with regard to the college authorities assigned to positions, there is a question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u115	Thank you, Sergey Raphaelovich, for such a question. The question is likely to arise. There are two ways, let's say, to solve the question that you've asked. First. Or everyone understands the Constitution and the level of preparation, the Constitution and all the laws. Then we do not need to write around each end that you are looking at and that you are obliged to do. How else can it be said that they are obliged to comply with the decision of the Supreme Council or the President’s decree or the law? How else can I write if it's written in the Constitution? You know, ten times, many countries don't go that way. So there are two ways: either form a legal consciousness and write it in the basic documents, or write it down completely in everyone else. We can go both ways in view of the state of legal nihilism that we now have, sadly, today. What do you think, I'm telling you, the illegitimate head of the High Court of Commerce is sitting.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u116	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u117	A higher display of the conditions for corruption, the highest one that exists in the state and in the world, is now sitting in his office and every day so. For two years, and for two years, society has watched this. So there's no immunity in society? So it's convenient for something like this, so there's no constitutional guarantor, there's no new choice, and there's nothing to say about this, no one else is saying. So you see, let's also develop a legal culture.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u118	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u119	Yuri Anatoliyovich, the question was about your bill at all, but you helped yourself to that question. You're talking about two years, or I'd like to ask. If you have been a coalition for two years, why have all reforms been halted? Who prevents you from reforming the court, the tax system, the pension system? Why has the budget not been introduced so far? Is there not? You don't have to deal with these double standards. I have a question about your bill. Subjects of authority who will ignore the decisions of the administrative courts under your bill may be deprived of, or be fined, or released from positions of public authority, to ban and thus occupy certain positions. Tell me, please, the disrespect itself, the indiscretion, that colleagues have already asked the question here, how will your bill develop in the future, because the first reading will allow it to be accepted, but it will have to be further worked out.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u120	Thank you. I thank you for the fundamental question. First, you asked questions about the coalition. Unfortunately, I am not the leader of the coalition. Then you would see the implementation of the model law you're talking about. But. For you to know my point of view, I've proposed to you all today, let's look at the budget. And yesterday on the council of the coalition, yesterday on the council of the coalition, understanding you, ask your colleagues who was there, I asked again about the budget. Just so you know. So my voice is always in favor of a normal solution. As to how many meetings were blocked, you know. Let's look for common solutions. We still have to unite the hall in any way. Let us unite the hall on a budget, on normal laws. This law that we're proposing right now, I'm going to report on behalf of the six national deputies, it's normal. And we're proposing here not just the appearance and everything else you said.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u121	Yes, thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Time's up, please sit down. The co-report will be delivered by the head of the Committee on Justice, Novikov Yulia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u122	The committee considered the bill of honorary Yuri Anatoliyovich, and we received our comments and conclusions from the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the Supreme Court of Ukraine and the scientific institutions. Overall, the proposed changes are accepted, and they deserve support. The bill aims at halting the mass failure of administrative courts and ensuring that they are implemented unconditionally by applying them to entities of authority that ignore the execution of decisions of administrative courts, such as a fine, the dismissal of positions in public authorities and local self - government and the prohibition of such persons for a period of time to do so. I want to point out that there are some shortcomings in the bill that I'm going to talk about briefly. Article 273 of the project does not relate to article 185. 3 Ukraine’s Code on Administrative Offences, which establishes responsibility for similar offences. Because 61 Constitutions of Ukraine stipulate that no one can be held responsible twice for the same offence. It's different. The amount of a fine of 100 to 200 untaxed minimums proposed by article 273 of the project is too large for citizens, does not correspond to the gravity of the offences committed by them, as well as to the property status of most administrative entities. Article 257 of the project, which proposes to set a time limit for the execution of judgments within 10 days, does not comply with article 256 of the CSA, which provides for the immediate execution of the court’s decision. There are also some inconsequential remarks. In view of the foregoing, I would like to express the opinion of the committee. The committee took a decision on the basis of the first reading of the bill. And lastly, I would like to add that we don't solve such bills in fact, because the Supreme Council of this call has to accept, I think, the necessary judicial reform that is in Bills 0916, 0917, but it would be very important for these two bills to adopt changes and systems of judicial codes from all jurisdictions. And this is very important, and I think this is the mission of this Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u123	Thank you. Questions to the coconspirator. Julia Volodymyrna may have questions. If there are any, dear colleagues, questions, please sign in. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Adam Martinyuk, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u124	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Julia Volodymyr, you have made your point quite clearly, and the committee's view of what is probably before: the law is not bad, but without it you can live. In what sense is that it is written in such a way that it still needs to be copied. And most of all. The Constitution states that all decisions of the courts must be carried out. Why do we give evidence of such decisions by law? But most of all. All right, we can agree with that. But how to agree with those dragon fines when you might not even know that the court is calling you as a witness, including any national MP. And if you don't show up at the administrative court, you're looking at a fine of 100 to 200 minimums and so forth. As many cases as a person writes a letter to you, you can't solve his problems – she refers to the court that a deputy has not “solved my problem”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u125	Allow me to finish the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u126	And then you're called to court because there's a lawsuit. You don't even know that the court is considering your case, because sometimes, at least to me, these court decisions are coming, and now, on any formal basis, you're going to be fined, even though you're innocent. Should such laws be required? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u127	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u128	This law is called upon to force public authorities, government officials, officials, and judges to comply. And it's proposed to impose such sanctions for failure to comply with the court's decisions. And in principle, it's perfectly normal. But as for what you said, you see, this whole challenge to the court is that the courts are underfunded. In fact, Kabmin was not financed in the amount needed this year. Well, what's four bracelets on the case? You can't even buy an envelope. And that's why the courts are collecting money from the citizens I'm talking to. In fact, the courts do not call witnesses, nor do they call sides in the case. And this is actually a, well, catastrophe in the judiciary right now, because the courts are now collecting money from those who come to court and seek help that is a direct violation of the Constitution. Since everyone has the right to defend his or her rights in court, this must be free of charge. That is why there is a problem, and it needs to be solved. But it is said that all these bills do not provide a systematic one.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u129	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u130	do not provide a systematic solution to problems in the judiciary. We need to adopt all the procedural codes that need to be developed for a good time, and we need to adopt some concept of judicial reform, and we need to adopt these two bills, which are now united in one way or another, and judicial reform needs to be adopted. Otherwise we won't leave the dead dot.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u131	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukrainian People's Self-Defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u132	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Julia Volodymyrical, thank you very much for examining the deep project. And even more so than what you said in projects 0916, 0917 – about the Laws of the Court of Justice. You know very well that there are attempts by individual political forces to privatize the judicial branches of power, either one or the other. Now how do you see the way out of the privatization that took place in the Supreme Economic Court? For two years, no matter what the position is. It's written down, it's administered in an unconstitutional way by judges. It's all booked up, all business in the morning by Sergei Demchenk. How can we cope with this situation? And how legitimate those decisions will be if the court comes out of a court that is headed by an illegal person. How do we get out in this case when the Constitution clearly provides, and you're saying that we can't adopt laws, which law doesn't decide?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u133	Yuri Anatolyovich, this is how I'm going to answer this question. You see, the biggest problem in this country is not even an economic crisis or a financial crisis. The biggest problem we have right now is legal nihilism. The laws, the Constitution of Ukraine, are not implemented, starting with senior officials, ending with, I don't know, the last haji. That's the main problem. If we do not solve this problem, there can be no movement forward in this country at all. As far as the bill on judicial reform is concerned, you know very well. I'm reporting from this bill. The bill was ready over a year ago. And as long as we didn't put a bill into the hall, the rostrum was blocked, including the faction of the Timoshenko Yulia, and these bills had no movement, because there is no will in this room to adopt judicial reform. And I think that even in the bills that there are now, there are some flaws, we should work out and prove that we have that will and that we have some.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u134	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u135	The desire to do good things in this country. For there is no investor, no economic improvement in the country unless the rights of owners and natural persons are protected. So I think that's the most important question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u136	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the bill. The factions are recording. Now, if the record is complete, make a record of the national MPs or just the national MPs. Please put your names on the information board. Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u137	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Since I've signed up, I'm obviously out of the picture. Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. Dear colleagues, if you look at the goal that is outlined in the explanatory note of the legislative initiative subject Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin, it is irreprehensible, it is ideal. I quote. The bill is aimed at halting the mass failure of administrative courts and ensuring that they are implemented unconditionally. If we look at the prism of this goal, it is clear that there will be no objection to this idea, for all finesse and lawyers, and not lawyers, understand that the problem of the judicial system is largely determined by the fact that the key rule, the irreversibility of punishment, does not work. In this case, the point is that there is no irreversibility to execute a court decision. We can discuss for a very long time what kind of judicial system we have, but if those decisions that are taken by the court are not implemented for months, for years, and this is mass and general practice. Clearly, then, there is no point in saying anything about the judiciary. But I would like to draw the attention of the author of the legislative initiative, Yuri Anatoliyovich, to the fact that it is proposed that a fairly correct rule be applied to what should be fined for failure to execute the court's decision, but that there is still an exemption from the positions of officials who work in public authorities and local self-government. And I have this rhetorical question here, and I have the right of this court to do it, whether it's his jurisdiction, it's his authority to get people out of positions if they work in public authorities and local self-government. You have to, Yuri Anatoliyovich, pay attention to this, I think you can limit yourself to a fine, a fine raised by a fine, and that would be legitimate. One more moment, it's suggested, look, there's a serious fine of 1,700 to 3,400 dollars in the case where there's no valid reason why a person doesn't appear in court, you can still understand that. However, it is also necessary when a person has misinformed his or her address. But this could be completely technical. And in this case, where the body that will determine that man just put the wrong number in the index, in the postal index.). So it seems to me that this idea, which is based on the principle of the irreversibility of executing the courts, needs to be technically still working on the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u138	Yes, Your Honor, the discussion is over. Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin, please conclude.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u139	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of all the authors, and Vladimir Romanovich Bondik. and Vladimir Romanovich Moysik, and Valerija Anatoliyovich Bondik, and Olga Borisovna Bodnar, and Alexander Volodymyrovich Golub, and Oksana Volodymyrna Bilozer -- thank you all for the discussion, for the discussion. Because the last question now from Zarubinsky was a question. So I just want to say what I have to say. You're misinterpreted and you're correct. Why? Because the point is that it is a failure to inform the court when the case is brought. I mean, there's an introduction to the case, they've called Carmazin and they're asking, "Carmazin, where do you live?" And Carmazin says, "I live in Berdichev." I deliberately report false information about my whereabouts. Although our courts have already learned, you know, that they're filing a lawsuit where they're paying money, they're looking at a lawsuit right now. That's the problem. So I think you should take that question off. As far as the other is concerned, it's big. So you're saying that the small size of 100 bracelets. 1,700 bracelets for the head of the legal institution -- it's not a big fine, it's not big at all. Now it's about getting someone out of work. Nowhere, by any standard, has there been such an offer that a court can release someone. No, the court can only address it and tell the collective body that you don't have an official who does something about it and asks questions about how to turn around and get out of work. Well, it's a normal civilized practice. You can see how when they turn and ask for some action to be taken to ensure that there is absolute fulfillment. Well, how are we going to get the courts executed today? Whether someone decides that 6 percent of the decisions are made, or then let's say that we have them, the decisions of the courts, just to cover something up, we want to cover something up, then we let the authorities do it. That's why I'm grateful to both the Science and Experimental Authority and the Novikovy Yulia Volodymiriwny, who made her remarks here on behalf of the committee. Of course, we'll take them all into account, given their rightness and I think that if we get in with you, we'll set a deadline for the execution of 10 days' decisions, I think that the situation will change significantly, and you'll all have fewer complaints coming from people who say that they're being implemented, they're not being implemented, and so on. Well, at the end of the day, there's going to be some sort of order that we all dream of, and we want and we hope that someday it will be. Thank you for your attention! Please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u140	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Law on Amendments to the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine has been finalized (registration number 5165). The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. A proposal for adoption is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine. [[on ensuring the unconditional enforcement of court decisions]] [[Registration number 5165]] Please vote. [[13:35:11]] For 283 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, please note that we need to include in the agenda, and after inclusion, we need to consider the draft Ordinance on the Development of a State-wide Program for the Elimination of Negative Environmental and Technological Situations in Ukraine. [[Registration number 6062]] I recall when you and I adopted the Kalchus Act and the surrounding territories, there was a discussion about the need for a decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine that would take into account dangerous situations in many regions of the country. We agreed then that we would look at this draft decision separately. That's why I'm voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's draft decree on the development of a state-wide programme to eliminate negative environmental and technological situations in Ukraine. [[Registration number 6062]] Please vote. [[13:36:29]] For 319 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Environmental Policy and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Shago Evgen Petrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u141	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, the draft Supreme Council Regulation on the Development of a State Program for the Elimination of Negative Environmental and Technological Situations in Ukraine, which I represent as author, has been introduced to your consideration. At present, there has been a very negative situation in various regions of the country, with the result of unbalanced economic activity disrupting environmental balance. Do you know about the problem of Dniprodzyńské, Pavlovgrad, Yellow Waters, Stebnik, Solotvina and other cities? What is the result? Did you hear at the February 12th plenary meeting when you discussed the issue of the announcement of the territory of Kallus and the village of the Kalusz district of Johno-Frankow district as a zone of extreme ecological situation? The example of Calchus is very illustrative. The present problems are not solved until there is an extraordinary situation that requires overtime to prevent disaster. Then, in an emergency order, funds, equipment, and so forth are diverted. Is it not logical to eliminate dangerous situations before they adopt a dangerous nature and even better not to allow the ecological situation at all to be dangerous? Today, however, there is no State system for solving such problems. Costs from the State Budget are either not allocated at all, or are set aside in quantities that do not allow specific work to be done to eliminate environmental and technological threats and even more prevent them from occurring. The State’s obligation is to mitigate the effects of economic activity, to ensure an environment that does not adversely affect the health of the population, and to increase the risk of life. The purpose of the decision is to develop a State-wide programme to create conditions for the elimination of threats to environmental emergencies, to reduce and progressively eliminate negative environmental and technological situations, and to normalize environmental conditions throughout Ukraine. The draft decree is intended to entrust the Cabinet of Ministers by 1 July 2010 to develop and submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft of the National Programme for the Elimination of Negative Environmental and Technological Situations in Ukraine. The programme may include measures to identify all areas where there are risks of emergency situations with their division into categories of complexity; measures that require a priority solution, as well as measures aimed at reducing and progressively eliminating negative environmental and technological situations; and the normalization of environmental conditions throughout Ukraine. An important step is also to establish an early detection system for extreme environmental and technological situations with a view to warning them. In order to implement the programme, there must be a provision for material, technical and financially provided, for defined executives and for execution periods. A committee on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster was discussed at its meeting in a draft Ordinance on the Development of a State-wide Program for the Elimination of Negative Environmental and Technological Situations in Ukraine. Recognizing that the development of such a national program is a very important and long - mature priority in the area of ecology, members of the committee have made several suggestions that improve the text of the decree. First. Since the National Programme is being developed for a certain period of time, it is appropriate to supplement the program “up to 2025”. Why by 2025? In a smaller period, it is simply unrealistic to carry out the amount of tasks involved in the program. It's different. Considering that negative technological situations cause environmental disturbances, the appropriate term “ecological and technological situations” should be replaced by “technological and environmental situations”, i.e. swapping places. In view of the urgency of the alerts, it is proposed to add a “warning” in the title of the program before the word “accounting”. This is how you put the name in this text. “The state-wide programme to warn and eliminate negative technological and environmental situations in Ukraine until 2025”. The third offer. In view of the adoption of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Law of February 12 on the Approval of the Presidential Order of Ukraine, it is appropriate to add that in the first paragraph of the Preamble, the decrees of February 12, 2010 were adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[No. 1885/6]] Territorial expansion requires a systematic and full-scale approach rather than a one-time one. As a result of the discussion, the committee decided to recommend a decision to the Supreme Council in general, taking into account the proposals made. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u142	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, do you have a question for the reporter? Please sign up. And I'm continuing our morning session for 15 minutes, which is 14 hours 15 minutes. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? The national deputy of Vyezovsky. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u143	“Our Ukraine”, group “For Ukraine!” Please pass the word to your colleague Roman Tkachu.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u144	Roman Tchac. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u145	Roman Tkac, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear Eugene Petrovich, and actually Volodymyr Mihajlovich, I am addressing you. That's what I wanted to ask you. It's a good question that it's raised by the committee, and it's going more broadly than Calchus's question. But when we discussed here, in the hall, the question of Calus, then, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I spoke and asked you to consider this, because what we decided was essentially about the allocation of funds. But it was about writing a separate tape about how the government was tasked with sanctioning the Orion enterprise and recognizing its bankruptcy. Unfortunately, no one says what to do with the potassium plant in Calustine. So I would suggest that I have a specific proposal here, a separate commission for Calus. I understand that this decision is broader, but it's still a preamble to Kallus. So I have, Eugene Petrovich, an offer for you, maybe I'll give you what's relevant in writing, but I will.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u146	All right, let's take a look at it now, let's get to know the people's deputies. If there's no objection, let's count it. You pass it on, I'll read it when we're done. Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u147	Of course, Kallus, who fell into the eyes of the former President of Ukraine and got into the very last period of his activity, is an important point on the map of Ukraine where there is such a danger. But this danger is on every farm that used to care for water protection, precipitation, and so forth, today these warehouses are usually broken down into construction materials by local residents, and there's a whole lot of chemistry in there. Today, there are huge environmental problems, including in the eastern region, where industrial activity was not taking into account conservation factors. So I would like to complement this decision with perhaps a mandate for the Cabinet of Ministers to develop a national programme to clean up Ukraine's territory from such remnants of extremely volatile farm chemistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u148	Thank you for asking. In fact, there will be a chapter: questions in this state-wide program, questions that you raise.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u149	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u150	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!” Thank you for the initiative, Eugene Petrovich. Indeed, there were many other problems in the discussion of Calchus, including this suggestion: a warning. Maybe this should even be the main thing in the program. But at the same time, I want to hear your opinion: Is it until July 1st? We know there's going to be a transitional period of government right now. Will it really be a full program within such a short period of time because there are so many problems? And second of all, what's the deadline for what program? Is this a long - term, short - term program? It would certainly be nice to set out such directions: what should be done in a short, medium- and long-term direction for these purposes. Because you can't solve some problems in a year or two. And the elimination of ammunition, melancholy, and poison chemicals, and even the creation of enterprises that would recycle these poison chemicals in Ukraine rather than export, to pay a lot of money for their processing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u151	Thank you for asking. In fact, I support you. Maybe it's not until July 1st, but it's possible to increase the term. But this program is scheduled for 2025, which is normal in terms, I think.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u152	Adam Martinyuk, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u153	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Eugene Petrovich, Your Honor, I, you see that your colleagues from all the factions unanimously support that such a program should be created. But, really, they're right to create it not to be on paper, but to create it for the sake of reality, and to beat our tails no more, as it was with Calchus. And not just Kallus, and the Yellow Waters in us, and Pavlovgrad in Dnipropetrovska. And I don't want to call other points to avoid scaring people who know without us that it's a disaster. It's the only thing we don't do. And right, on the one hand, you're proposing that the program be provided materially in the State Budget, but that we don't have a reserve fund today for this, that we use the so-called stabilization fund so that we don't create another manual management fund, because both the reserve and the stabilization fund -- only the government has the power not to give them the money and the third fund just to be managed by the government. So this is what it takes to develop.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u154	Thank you. I agree with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u155	Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u156	Alexandrovska Alla Alexandrovna
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u157	Alla Alexandrovska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u158	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. What came up is unsportsy. We've seen the chaos that we have in housing and utilities, in the transport system, in the pipeline. But you're talking about a state-wide program, and that's the right thing to do. But still, how can you be at the community level? After all, we now have the basic funds that relate to the housing and utilities sector, and they belong to the public sector today. And there's money for their maintenance, development, upgrading or major repairs. That's why we're from Gosbudget money. But these are kopecks, and practically, housing and utilities are not funded by Gobdget. So, do you think that this programme should be extended to the level of public property, so that everyone knows that the issue will be resolved not only when the whole of Ukraine is destroyed, but when the problem of a particular city and village is solved?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u159	Thank you for asking. The thing is, I wouldn't mess up the utilities here. I'd like every MP around the country to know the sick places there are. For the first time in the country, there was a program and we knew where to spend the money. Priority in the category so that the plan is not, in fact, to jump in, see, grab their heads. They say it's 600 million. Here's 600 million. And for that to be true, we've seen it all.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u160	It's information for thought, obviously, and for action. Dear colleagues, Oleg Zarubinsky is entitled to questions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u161	Thank you. Dear Eugene Petrovich, here in the operative part, is tasked with the Cabinet by July 1st to develop a state-wide programme to eliminate negative environmental and technological situations in the territory. I just figured it out for myself, that's four months. And in principle, you've talked about it yourself, the situation in Ukraine today is very difficult. You didn't name the tenth hour, and you couldn't call those fires a danger, let's say. And there are no preventive actions today. And the main position is preventive action, because then you have to spend a lot more if you're going to give it something. Postfactum. In this regard, you may consider moving closer to the date when the Kabmin is actually expected to issue a state - sponsored program for at least two months. Because four months under the current conditions is too much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u162	In this situation, I would tend to July 1st, in this case, it works today. As long as a new government is formed, there will be questions there.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, all who wanted to ask the question, took advantage of this opportunity. Thank you, sit down, please. Dear colleagues, there are several suggestions. We can immediately take those amendments into account, if there is no objection, accept it as a basis, and then accept it as a whole, or accept it as a basis, and assign those proposals that have been made, redraft tomorrow, and, say, vote definitively on Thursday. So I think in the process of discussion, I would like to ask you to express your view of the proposal that I just made. But what we need with that document, with real problems and real dates, is clear. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the discussion. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Oleg Zarubinski. Next up will be Roman Tuck.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u164	Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. Dear colleagues, the very idea of forming, creating a State-wide program and eliminating negative environmental and technological situations in Ukraine is absolutely correct. Frankly, I think we say that so often, but in this case it's absolutely right for me to think that she's a little late for this idea. And I remember that we were moved to accept such a nationwide program. The situation is when we start to make a point of deciding whether or not to try to solve some of the technological security problems. And indeed, this was related to the situation in Kalucha. And then from the offer of a colleague, I remember Chago Ivan Petrovich, and the idea was that we would probably not be able to react in that way to the dangers of the entire 600,000 - mile [600,000 km] territory of Ukraine. And that's why I think it needs to be completely approved. I'm still on my mind, although I understand that the author of the legislative initiative has his own system of reasoning on what might be worth considering before July 1st. Another point that I would like to point out to confirm that we need to accept today, perhaps as the Head of the Supreme Council proposes on Thursday and in general that we approve this state-wide programme. After the accident at Siyano-Shushin Rés, I asked the appropriate Ukrainian institutions to provide information. I have this information, signed by Mr Stoyecki, Head of State Inspectorate of Civil Protection and Technological Safety, that takes six pages completely out of water, here just listing what might explode at any time, and in both the portable and the literal sense of the word “exploit”. For example, a concentration of 30 tons of trotyle in a non-workable chemical plant. I'm not going to say that where not to excite the public opinion on this point. Six pages with a thick font, just counting these dangers. So it seems to me that we have to support this, no doubt, the Block of Lithuania will support this legislative initiative and be willing to vote both on the basis and on the whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u165	Roman Tjak, faction of "Our Ukraine People's Self-Defense." Andrew School will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u166	Roman Tkac, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Of course, I support the initiative of our colleague Eugene Petrovich Chago, who raised the issue. And let's say the cause is also the situation in Kalucha, and it's a good thing that the approach here is so public. But I really support Vladimir Mikhailovich's initiative not to make a decision today, but to move this issue forward in such a turn: to consider it more widely on the committee and certainly to bring it up on Thursday or Friday for consideration by the Supreme Council. What is the situation? That's the first chapter right there. “The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will develop and submit a draft programme by 1 July for consideration by the Supreme Council.” I'm very afraid it won't work by 1 July. I'm just giving you an example of Ivano-Frakowishte. For example, we have in Ivano-Frankishte, except that we are developing very strongly in the direction of tourism, let's say we have an ecologically clean region. But today we have two huge problems that we can't solve on our own -- that's the problem of pollution coming from the Brustine T.E.S. And the second question, the issue of flood protection. So today, after the 2008 flood, some part of the state is actually made. But this is just a fraction. Today, miles of roads, today miles of dams of defense, which have not yet begun to be made. So I think we should do it this way. I'm sure the regional authorities, whether it's the district councils or the district administrations, should be involved. They have to be concentrated here at the level of the Cabinet of Ministers, and probably by September 1st, they've already submitted this program to the Supreme Council. We understand very well, the President has changed now, the formation of the government is about to take place, and on July 1st, we're just not going to be able to take this issue seriously. So my suggestion is, first of all, to take into account what I suggested here on Kallus, second of all, to defer this, the first date to July 1st, for example, to move it there to September 1st, or much later, when the authorities are formed in places and here, in the center. And in general, I support the proposal to send for work on the committee, to look at the committee, and then, completely, in the complex, look here, in the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u167	Andrew Schlell, Timoshenko's Yulia Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u168	Dear Mr. Chairman, distinguished national MPs, TV and radio audiences! I think our previous speaker is talking about it, because when he's proposing to send a national MP to work, it means breaking up and throwing out the bill. And from his performance, I realized he's so supportive. So I'd like to make the statements and actions a little bit more consistent, because in fact, when it's a problem, you can talk about it, forget it, and trample it. So, gentlemen, not for work, but for first or second reading, because I hope that's the position. Because in fact this bill is not just relevant, it is “embarrassed” in fact, because the problem in Ukraine in most cases has been silenced by environmental woes and disasters that we may not expect, even though we all know about them, and the people who live near these fires know best about it. So I think you can talk about it here, you can look for arguments, but now, about this minute, you have to vote completely in the first, in the second and in the whole reading. Because it's deferred as much as possible, we can have it after the huge, so let's say, weather disasters that have occurred: heavy big frosts, snowfalls, floods. It is now necessary to vote in full and in whole. Putting it down for Thursday, the offer is, but I think the best and more reasonable suggestion would be to vote now and let it go to work. Because it's not such a simple and fast way to draft a session room bill. What's more, I support that maybe from July 1st it's a little term or too big, and on the other hand it might be too small, but it's, as far as I'm concerned, optimal. Because we are no longer going to be able to save the spring for the flood, but we can start funding, set up studies, and justify the construction of some of the protection and decommissioning objects, the melioration. So all this stuff, all the technological processes that are needed over the summer and fall for the next spring and winter. So, as far as I'm concerned, the term is optimal. It's only my personal proposal and our faction to vote now. Because I've been preparing for a long time, okay. And that's why there may be nuances, but we are the Supreme Council to amend the existing, we've made a decision, and we have a full constitutional right to do so. So I call on the people's deputies to adopt the bill as a whole before we take a break, after we have discussed it. We can't all talk about people here, we've all been waiting for this bill. So I urge you to vote now and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u169	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Eugene Petrovich, do you insist on concluding? No, it's not. Dear colleagues, perhaps we will live up to such an offer. Here Roman Tchac made a written addition, Vladimir Bondarenko voiced his offer, Alla Alexandrovska. So let's say, your honors, if you don't mind, and Eugene Petrovich also talked about the specifics in the name and content, taking these proposals into account, we'll take it as a basis, we'll assign the committee and we'll work it out directly to the author tomorrow, and we'll put it to the vote on Thursday. So that we don't have to sign a non-agreement order, including for Orion, because that's where we have to reconcile this position, because we're writing a chapter that would then be implemented. Is there no objection? Adam Martinyuk, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u170	Thank you, Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, you're right, but in that case, if we were to take the program now. We're now deciding that we're giving the Cabinet a mandate to create a program. And this program should take into account the proposals made by fellow members of the National Deputies. Because we're not making a specific decision right now on one or the other, including Calchus. We're taking a decision that gives us the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers to create such a program. That's the program, that's where Roman's proposal is going to come in, that's Alexander's proposal, and so on and so forth. Because now if we just write it in the determination itself, we can also assign it to account, but it's better that it's on the program itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I am voting on the basis of the draft decree with the clarifications that our fellow national MP, Shago Evgen Petrovich, referred to in the report. [[Registration number 6062]] Based on the base. This is a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the development of a state-wide programme to warn and eliminate negative environmental and technological situations in Ukraine. Please vote. [[14:04:26]] For 291 We took it as a foundation. Dear colleagues, we can if the national MPs who made their proposals remove them, and then we can take them, and we can send them to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Under such conditions, if there is no objection, it is possible to put to the vote the adoption of this decree as a whole. If there's a denial, it's going to work. So there's no objection, is there? You don't? Then I put to the vote the adoption of the draft Decree as a decision to take account of the details that the reporter has been giving. [[Registration number 6062]] This is a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the development of a state-wide programme to warn and eliminate negative environmental and technological situations in Ukraine. Please vote. [[14:05:37]] For 280 The decision was taken. Now, dear fellows, may I have your attention? We have two more draft laws that we have to include in the agenda and then look at. So I have a request that we now vote for inclusion in the agenda, and then we will discuss them after the break. That's why I'm voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the Amendments to Chapter P of the Final Position Act of Ukraine on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine. [[on the elimination of double taxation in 2010 for oil, natural gas and gas condensate extracted in Ukraine]] I'll remind you again. Registration number 6039. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. Because there we discussed this issue twice taxed. [[14:06:45]] For-119 The decision is not supported. Now the second offer. May I have your attention, Your Honor? This is the bill of recognition, which has become invalid, of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine on the organization of the work of election committees on inclusion in the agenda. [[Registration number 6046-1]] [[14:07:25]] For 116 The decision is not taken. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. At 16 o'clock we'll continue our work at the evening session.
