ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:44]] Cards were registered in the 269 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs, there was a terrible terrorist attack in Moscow yesterday, and many people were killed and injured. On behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I sent appropriate telegrams to the heads of both chambers of the Council of the Russian Federation. Please, fellow believers, honor the memory of those who died in this terrible tragedy. X [[Fails of Silence]] Please sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our colleague of Gunski Bogdan Volodymyrovich. Let's welcome him. We wish him the same. [[Applause]] The Honourable People's Deputies, March 22, 2010 The Central Election Commission registered the National Deputies of Ukraine, orania on September 30, 2007 in the multi-mandate national constituency constituency included in the electoral list of the Party of the Regions: Melnik Petra Volodirovich, Baldirjeva Jurija Alexandrovich, Lutsky Maksim Georgievovich, Nadiša Oleg Volodirovich, Calestina Valerija Vasilovich, Olijnika Vladimir Mikolaiovich, Tolstenka Vladimir Leonidovich, Boyarchuk Aleksy Valerijovich, Kozuba Androvichorovich, Cerrodija Sergija Fedotovich, Caleutnika Grigoria Mikolaiovich, Stemashenko Vasilirovicha Petrovich, Zadziorski Voxandirovicharovicharovich, Nikolawicz In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. To make an oath to the rostrum, I invite the National Deputy of Ukraine, Melnik Peter Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u2	I swear allegiance to Ukraine, I pledge to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, to ensure the welfare of the country and the welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u3	Welcome, my dear fellow. In order to make an oath to the rostrum, the national deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Boldirev, is invited to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u4	I swear allegiance to Ukraine, I pledge to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, to ensure the welfare of the country and the welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u5	Let's welcome Yuri Alexanderovich. [[Applause]] To make an oath to the rostrum, the national deputy of Ukraine, Lutsky Maksim Georgievovich, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u6	I swear allegiance to Ukraine, I swear by all my actions to defend sovereignty, Ukraine's independence, to take care of the welfare of the country and the welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u7	Yes, welcome to Maxim Grigorovitch. [[Applause]] To make an oath, I invite the Ukrainian national deputy Nadosha Oleg Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u8	I pledge my allegiance to Ukraine, I pledge all my actions to defend sovereignty, Ukraine’s independence, to take care of the welfare of the country and the welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u9	Yes, dear colleagues, we welcome our colleague. [[Applause]] To make an oath, I invite the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kelestin Valerija Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u10	I pledge my allegiance to Ukraine, I pledge all my actions to defend sovereignty, Ukraine’s independence, to take care of the welfare of the country and the welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u11	Yes, welcome to Valery Vasilovich. [[Applause]] To make an oath, I invite the National Deputy of Ukraine, Vladimir Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u12	I swear allegiance to Ukraine, I pledge to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, to ensure the welfare of the country and the welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u13	Congratulations, Vladimir Mikolaiovich, you. [[Applause]] To make an oath, I invite the national deputy of Ukraine, Tolstenka Volodymyr Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u14	I swear allegiance to Ukraine, I pledge to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, to ensure the welfare of the country and the welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u15	Yes, welcome, Vladimir Leonidovich, you. [[Applause]] To make an oath, I invite the National Deputy of Ukraine, Alexia Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u16	I swear allegiance to Ukraine, I pledge to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, to ensure the welfare of the country and the welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u17	Congratulations, Alexei Valeriovich, you. [[Applause]] To make an oath, I invite the national deputy of Ukraine, Alexander Andriyovich, to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u18	I swear allegiance to Ukraine, I pledge to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, to ensure the welfare of the country and the welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u19	Yes, welcome, Alexander Andryovich, you. [[Applause]] To make an oath, I invite the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sergey Fedotovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u20	I swear allegiance to Ukraine, I pledge to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, to ensure the welfare of the country and the welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u21	Hello, Sergey Fedotovich, you. To make an oath, I invite the National Deputy of Ukraine, Majétnik Grigori Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u22	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u23	Welcome, Gregory Mikolaiovich. To make an oath, I invite the Ukrainian national deputy Stelmashenko Vasil Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u24	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u25	Welcome, Vasil Petrovich, you. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Zac Alexander Viktorovich, is invited to make an oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u26	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u27	Welcome, Alexander Viktorovich, you. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Liczuk Vladimir Ivanovich, is invited to make an oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u28	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u29	Yes. Welcome, Vladimir Ivanovich. [[Applause]] To make an oath, I invite the National Deputy of Ukraine, Vladislav Valeriyovich, of Zabarski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u30	I pledge my allegiance to Ukraine, I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, and to taking care of the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u31	Congratulations, Vladislav Valeriovich. [[Applause]] The National Deputy of Ukraine, Pinchuk Andri Pavlovich, is invited to make an oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u32	I pledge my allegiance to Ukraine, I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, and to taking care of the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u33	Hello, Andrew Pavlovich. [[Applause]] To make an oath, I invite the national deputy of the Ukraine of the coat of arms, Anatoly Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u34	I pledge my allegiance to Ukraine, I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, and to taking care of the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u35	Congratulations, Anatoly Alexiyovich. [[Applause]] Zablotsky Vitali Petrovich, a Ukrainian national deputy, is invited to make an oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u36	I swear allegiance to Ukraine, I pledge to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, to ensure the benefits of the homeland and the welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u37	Hello, Vitaly Petrovich. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Vassil Mikhajlovich, is invited to make an oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u38	I swear allegiance to Ukraine, I pledge to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, to ensure the benefits of the homeland and the welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u39	Welcome, Vasil Mikhailovich. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Zmir Yuri Pavlovich, is invited to make an oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u40	I swear allegiance to Ukraine, I pledge to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, to ensure the benefits of the homeland and the welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u41	Welcome, Yuri Pavlovich, you. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Kupchenko Alexi Petrovich, is invited to make an oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u42	I swear allegiance to Ukraine, I pledge to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, to ensure the welfare of the country and the welfare of the Ukrainian people. I pledge to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine to carry out my duties for the benefit of all the countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u43	Yes, welcome, Alexi Petrovich. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Omelyanovich Denis Sergiyovich, is invited to make an oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u44	I swear allegiance to Ukraine, I pledge to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, to ensure the welfare of the country and the welfare of the Ukrainian people. I pledge to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine to carry out my duties for the benefit of all the countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u45	That's how we welcome you, Dennis Sergiyovich. Dear National Deputies! Pursuant to article 13 of the Ukrainian Law: "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 59 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the origin of the National Deputies of Ukraine: Baldirjevo Jurija Olexia Valeriyovich, Gorbajuk Anatoli Olekstaliovich, Zablądzisława Valeriovich, Zablądývý Vitali Petrovic, Zablądý Vitali Petrovicz, Zabląkůk Vodýmir Ivanovich, Lutsky Makstoriyerovich, Khalestina Valerija Vasiliovich, Kosuba Oleksandra Andrivovich, Liczuka Dolodymir Ivanovich, Lutsky Maksilovich, Luklovichyyyyyyy Makilovicharzyj Müh, Sergyorivojalji Dédowiatovica, Melicovina Dolodimirovich, Medowialjitov, Meli Petra Dolodimirovicha Dolodimirovicha Dolodimirovicha Honourable National Deputies, in view of the failure to report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in accordance with the terms defined by the Supreme Council and in accordance with article 87, part eight, of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of the Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I hereby announce the suspension of the powers of the interim commission of inquiry: on investigations into the involvement of State authorities and local authorities, their officials in the media, as well as media reports on the pressure on freedom of speech in Ukraine, the head of Prutnik, the deputy head of Heratchenko; on the issue of the investigation of the deaths of the Ukrainian National Deputy of the People's Republic of Ukraine, the convening of Igor Plužnikov and the seizure by unknown persons of his own shares of “Inter”, Head of Portnov, Deputy Hermann; on the investigation of the circumstances of the illegal detention on 6 April 2005 by the Chief Investigative Department of Internal Affairs of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the head of the Donetsk District Council of Kolesnik Boris Viktorovich, the detention of him, as well as a violation of his criminal case, the head of Giga, the deputy head of Pilipenko. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are on Wednesday 30 minutes for statements by authorized representatives, I apologize, Tuesday is 30 minutes for statements by authorized factions, with proposals, announcements, statements, messages. The factions are authorized to sign up for the performance. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, faction of the Party of the Regions Eugene Kirilchuk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u46	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Our ranks have just been filled by 22 members of the people who have taken the seats of their colleagues who have headed the responsible parts of the work of the executive branch. This raises the legitimate question of whether the intellectual potential of the Party of the Regions will be reduced? Do they have sufficient professionalism and work experience? Moreover, as we understand the replacement process itself, the full volume is not yet complete. To reassure our friends who are genuinely concerned about this, as well as those opponents who are trying to earn political dividends here, and who are painfully hurt that our experienced colleagues have left the Supreme Council. But to a greater extent, we are tasked with informing our voters, let me report. Of the 22 people who have joined the faction today, 82 per cent have experience in parliamentary work. Thirty per cent of them were members of the Supreme Council of the two conventions. One in four has a doctoral degree or a student of science. All have higher education. In the assets of most colleagues, experience of work. Management of large enterprises, organizations, higher education institutions. So let us put aside all speculation about the possible weakening of our work and propose that we proceed with legislative initiatives that our President of our State, Viktor Fedorović Janukovic, has put forward in the past two weeks and that the Cabinet of Ministers, Nikolay Janović Azarov, has committed in the shortest possible time. And agree, we have something to work on in this regard. The President has launched an economic reform mechanism. Reforms of the judiciary have been established by the National Anti-Corruption Committee. Short deadlines have been set for this legislative framework. As soon as possible, I hope in the next plenary week, we all have a rather difficult work to do together in the current economic situation on the State's draft budget and on the country's socio-economic development programme. The Party of the Regions' MPs hope that all the people's deputies with constructive proposals will be involved in the formation of these crucial State documents and that we will soon reverse the disgraceful page of the manual opaque financial management for any civilized State. At the same time, I would like to emphasize that, as we have promised, the Government's budget today provides for an increase in social standards, i.e. the implementation of the law that we voted for with you last year and for which the previous power has not been able to find the means. As it was not able to address the most important issues for the State that the Government, the Reforms and Stability coalition, had already been able to carry out in the shortest possible time, namely: to resume a dialogue with the International Monetary Fund, which had been halted in connection with the misrepresentation of the previous Government; to negotiate with Russia on the path towards a mutually beneficial work; despite the legacy of an empty basin and a huge gap in the Pension Fund to ensure the payment of pensions and salaries to the budgeters; to revive the Euro-2012 site. Prepare a package of bills to simplify business, reduce licenses, permits, harmonizations and checks. In our concerted work, there may be a time when the country will look like a common construction site with road repairs, construction and reconstruction of bridge crossings, and the budget will be executed automatically. Once the management of the executive vertical has been fully restored, the responsible workers will not engage in self-piar, but in a specific, succinct, sometimes difficult day-to-day work, when the awards in the State will be awarded to the people who are proud of the collectives, the city, the country. The word is basic order, responsibility and professionalism. This is what is supported by most of our voters, foreign partners who for the first time in many years have seen that, after the free elections, the course has been consolidated. I suggest that all of us move away from demagogy and be included in the externally less attractive but certainly more necessary legislative work by the State today, which involves professional public and even sometimes sharp but necessarily constructive discussions. What are you invited to do, colleagues, by members of the faction of the Party of the Regions, both those who have joined our ranks today and those who have been united before. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u47	Eugen Kirilchuk, a faction, is invited to the presentation. National deputy of Sweden, you're going to be speaking, aren't you? Please. prepare for the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense."
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u48	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! It has been 18 days since the Supreme Council announced on 11 March 2010 the formation of a coalition of MP factions called “Stability and Reform”. The coalition included 235 national MPs who were in the faction of the Party of the Regions, the “Lituin Block” and the Communist Party, as well as the Ukrainian National Deputies. So in addition to the three MP factions that were part of this coalition, the people's deputies of Ukraine were individually involved, which were not part of the factions that formed this coalition. It has already been said enough that such a principle of coalition formation is unconstitutional, since it directly contradicts the part of article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine and the relevant decision of the Constitutional Court, which clearly states that the Constitution of Ukraine has defined the subjects of the formation of the coalition of MPs themselves. It is very likely that the vast majority of members of the Party of the Regions, like the vast majority of the Ukrainian society, were aware that the formation of a coalition based on individual membership was a direct and systematic violation of several of the Ukrainian Constitution's provisions. So these actions were anti-constitutional. That is why even before the official announcement of the formation of this anti-constitutional coalition of 68 national deputies from the Party of the Regions, the Constitutional Court was asked to formally interpret part 6 of article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine and some of the provisions of the Supreme Council Regulations Act. And that's very strange. That on the day of the declaration of this anti-constitutional coalition this constitutional submission is submitted for consideration by the Second College of the Constitutional Court, it is decided by the referee judge. On March 12, that is, the next day, the coalition makes a decision, the college makes a decision to open up this constitutional application and decides to consider it urgent, that is, within one month. The Constitutional Court of Ukraine, in its opening decision, did not point out that on September 17, 2008, it had already approved a decision on the official interpretation of part 6 of article 83 of the Constitution. Furthermore, the official interpretation of part 6 of article 83, as well as of the process of forming a coalition, was given by the Constitutional Court and in a decision of June 25, 2008. Thus, in accordance with part one of the third paragraph of article 45 of the Constitutional Court Act, the existence of the decisions taken by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine was an absolute ground for refusing to open conduct in the case of the constitutional submission of 68 national deputies from the Party of the Regions, but this did not happen. The Constitutional Court, by breaking the law, has discovered constitutional guidance and is currently considering it. Therefore, the sole purpose of this submission is the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to sanctify the unconstitutional formation of a coalition and, as a result, not the legitimacy of the Government of Ukraine, which is formed by this anti-constitutional coalition. It should be noted that this submission to the Constitutional Court is being considered in the form of written hearings, that is, without the call of the parties, quietly, even though a large part of the Ukrainian society would like to know on what grounds the court will come to certain conclusions. But in view of the fact that this case is secreted in the Constitutional Court of Ukraine and is being brought to large public attention, as was the case regarding the recognition of an unconstitutional Presidential decree to terminate the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth occasion. It can be assumed that decisions have long been made, and now only a copy of the court’s case is being taken. Instead, the Constitutional Court does not consider the submission of national deputies representing opposition factions who also arrived on 11 March this year, in which we question the unconstitutionality of article 61 of the Ukrainian Law on the Rules of the Supreme Council. It was these anti-constitutional changes to the Supreme Council Rules that enabled the faction of the Party of the Regions, the “Litvina Block” and the Communist Party to abuse the Constitution of Ukraine and.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u49	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u50	the expression of the Ukrainian people. We demand from the Constitutional Court and insist that all the mechanisms of the Constitutional Court for uniting these two cases were immediately involved and that it was adopted in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine’s decision, a decision in the name of the people of Ukraine. The second question is, Your Honor. The Yulia Timoshenko faction insists that the first issue of today's agenda be addressed with regard to the resignation of Minister of Education, Dmitri Tobacco.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u51	You're running out of time. Thank you. Have a seat, please. All right, time's up. Well, you've been talking for a minute. I'm asking you to finish. Well, let's get this over with. Well, finish what you have to say?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, we demand that the Supreme Council, immediately after hearing the factions from the factions, consider the issue of liberation from the position of this Ukrainian hater, who is today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u53	Thank you. Instead of the people's deputy from the faction there will be. Instead of the national MP Slobodan, the national deputy Jaroslav Jodzik, the faction “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” will speak. Sergey Greenewecki will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u54	Jaroslav Jodzik, Ukrainian People's Party, faction “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense”. The faction “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” and the Ukrainian People’s Party’s Deputy Group notes the absence of an active coalition and power to unite Ukraine. Rather, the activity of power leads to a widening of the division of Ukrainian society. This testifies to the appointment of an open-minded Ukrainian hater, Dmitri Tobacco, to the post of Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, which is already the result of massive protests by students who do not accept the high, contemptful attitude of Tobacco towards the Ukrainian people, the contempt of this person towards the Ukrainian state and the collapse of the reforms of the Ukrainian educational system according to European standards. No other assignment in Ukraine has caused so much opposition to society. Moreover, the person of Dmitri Tobacco is causing inadmissibility even on the Wednesday itself, in the context of the Party itself, as evidenced by statements made by the deputy head of the President's Administration, Hanna Herman, with a proposal for a new minister to resign. At the same time, we do not see the actual actions and desire of the coalition to remove this, unacceptable to most of Ukraine, a person who is witnessed by protests from Kharkiv to Lviv, as is also evidenced by the decision of the council of district councils. On the contrary, the current authorities have resorted to direct intimidation and political persecution, acts of protest against the appointment of Dmitri Tobacco. In particular, on March 29th, without any legal basis available in the court hall, a public activist named Mikola Kohaniowski was taken into custody, who was legally protesting against new government appointments and was himself the victim of the attack by an assistant to Dmitr Tobacco, Victor Voronin. In doing so, the investigator failed to carry out a proper trial, failed to verify the facts in the victim’s claim that the victim had been the victim, Voronin, and failed to take into account the explanations given by the witnesses. And the judge tried to restrict the access of Kohanowski's lawyer, media representatives and national deputies to the courtroom. Without proper justification, in spite of the existing Ukrainian laws and international legal acts concerning Miklai Kohanowski, the most difficult step was taken — keeping the watch. Nor was it taken into account the fact that a number of national deputies and public organizations have submitted documents regarding the person’s engagement. Recall that on November 27, 2009, the Ukrainian People’s Party’s activists were severely beaten in front of law enforcement officials at the opening of Lenin’s restored monument. As a result, they suffered severe injuries, including broken ribs and concussion. Even though the crime was recorded on video, the police refused to commit a criminal case and were still unpunished. Instead, today’s authorities have taken more stringent steps toward Kohaniovsky, who was in effect just protecting himself from the attack by a belligerent and not causing him obvious injuries or injuries. In the light of the foregoing, the faction "Our Ukrainian People's Self-Defense" and the Ukrainian People's Party's MPs consider the Court to be a court against Kuhani's political persecution through the use of law enforcement agencies and the judicial system and the deliberate action of the current authorities to intimidate all Ukrainian citizens who dared to oppose the appointment of Ukrainianoffos Tobacco, expresses their indignation at the gross violation of fundamental human rights and freedoms and a series of Ukrainian legislation, committed by representatives of the law enforcement authorities and the judiciary, calls for the immediate resignation of the odinous Minister of Education and the science of Dmitr Tobacco. The "Our National Self-Defense" faction will also take other measures to restore legitimacy and respect human rights in the territory.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u55	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u56	In particular, we refer letters to international institutions aimed at exerting pressure on Ukraine's government, and we call for civil disobedience if the authorities continue to violate citizens' rights and try to establish an authoritarian regime in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u57	Yes, Sergey Greenewecki, Lithuanian Block. Katerina Samuels? Catherine Samuel will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u58	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! During the month since the inauguration of the President of Ukraine, there have been or have been serious changes. Practically, executive power is formed at the central level, and the setting up of the local seems to be generating. Nevertheless, there is hope that the leadership of the State will be restored. At the same time, the process of power-building also reveals some flaws in the corporate culture of political elites. On the one hand, there was a democratic way of transferring power to the international community in both the West and the East. But this does not mean that all the negatives of the orange five years ago. In these years, unfortunately, the tradition of legal nihilism, political corruption, ideological integrity, moral corrosion, white - celled crime, right and left populism has developed. To overcome this negative tradition, we can only step up to a qualitatively new level of legal culture, which should be part of the professionalism of action, the unconditional enforcement of laws, the protection of property rights. Political stability has already had a positive impact on the state’s external image, as evidenced by the increase in its ratings. Yet the question is whether we can make use of these gains. Life shows that the mistakes made by the predecessors are quickly forgotten, and the euphoria of victory is able to intoxicate even the very sober mind. Yet, the state of affairs in the state and society does not give any reason for undue optimism. In particular, we do not yet have a culture of behavior of rich and very rich people, without the social and political responsibility of capital. According to this indicator, we are more at the level of countries where power is viewed, not as a service to society, but as a means of increasing our own well-being. And until the authorities and businesses are finally disunited, we will attack the same rakes every time. Today’s coalition faces challenges of colossal magnitude and colossal complexity. We need painful but necessary reforms, both political and economic. Where to begin? The simple economic reform itself is to stop the theft. The simplest political is to abide by the laws and stop lying. But that's not enough. People expect new power not only from economic stability but also from normalization of social life. Total depravity is quite annoying. Society needs a positive attitude, a focus on change for the better. The experience of the last five years has shown that an attempt to form a single line of state policy in a political, multireligious, economically diverse country such as ours, oriented at just one part of the population, is impossible. That is why the need for the government’s ideological work is increasing. We really need a consolidating idea that all citizens understand strategic and short-term perspectives. Today, however, the lack of budget, the balance of the financial system forces the government to pursue a fiscal gap policy by increasing domestic and external borrowings, privatising profitable and investment-attractive enterprises of recapitalised banks. We realize that these are temporary steps, but there is always fear that temporary ones will become permanent, and that we need to solve the current tasks with a reason to postpone reforms. We should also remember that any reform can only be implemented if the government relies on effective authority on the sites, particularly on the local council's trained constituency. That is why we need a change in the electoral system in order to form a transparent and responsible electoral society. An experiment with closed party lists has discredited itself and must be terminated. A draft of the Electoral Code has been introduced to Parliament, this document should become a guide, and if you want even a kind of small constitution, taking into account its social significance, the faction of the "Block of Lithuania" proposes to proceed immediately to the consideration of this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u59	Catherine Samuel, the Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u60	Dear colleagues! All those who listen to us are honored! I am asking you for the commission of the factions of the Communist Party of Ukraine on the issue of our future state, the future of every family, and your children, is usually an education issue. For what father or mother does not dream that his child will be experienced, educated, and able to apply his talent and knowledge in his own country? Unfortunately, too many tears have been shed here, someone is being persecuted there, such a minister of education and science, but I would like to say to you gentlemen, you have forgotten the words of the great Cobzar: “You are learning and you are not turning your back on your own,” and you are telling us all about the Euro standards. The European House is falling long ago, and you claim to be there in Ukraine without noticing it. A powerful system of education built in Soviet times has been destroyed today, and it has been recognized worldwide as one that has provided encyclopedias to all children without exception. Spoiled history, ruined ideals of morals, and ideals of patriotism. Tell me, are all the inhumans sitting here, how can grandkids be taught and hated by their grandfathers, drowning them with a great feat in the years of the Great Patriotic War? I'll give you one last example of the last power. The history textbook contest, there's no word of a 65-year-old victory in the Great War of the Homeland. Where is your memory, where your conscience is, and where you live, where you have seen young people raised on traitors of the Ukrainian people? Where you have seen how many years young generations have been taught, young people destroyed, destroyed, destroyed, and destroyed. Where you saw the future drawn to the grave, this was done over the course of five years. Thus, by chance, respected international organizations give the state an assessment as a state with lost untapped opportunities and with high levels of depression in people. And this is a terrible judgment, and the final sentence of the previous government, because it forgot that Ukraine's Soviets were building spaceships, building steppes of ships, that it built a powerful irrigation system, mines, factories, and you're just ruining and sneezing. Logically, the people passed their sentence. In view of the great pain and tragedy of education and training. We believe that the new minister of education and science will do everything for objectivity to make education and teacher a priority for the new authority. And I've made sure of that by taking part in a meeting of the Rectors of higher education institutions. I report to all of you, there were heads of universities from around here, all the rectors, including private, and municipal, and state. And they expressed their trust in the Minister of Education and Science of Tobacco and the course he was conducting. Shame is not a disgrace, but it is a unanimous support of an active minister. Its course is to reform, to restore historical truth, to better traditions of native education. The issue on which taboos were taboos was placed is the question of improving the rules of admission to higher education institutions. A thorough accusation of corruption by the heads of colleges, trust in school, and teacher has been dropped, and the test will be taken into account when it is accepted. The certificate has been valid for 3 years. It is also permitted for those who graduated from school before 2008 to obtain an education in the distance through the passing of exams. It is suggested that school graduates at these universities should be enrolled in the leading universities. Also.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u61	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u62	There is also a solution to the problem of alcohol abuse. And you scream, “Damn! ” And you scream shame on your colleague who passed the bill and canceled the benefits on the children of the dead miners, the children of the dead soldiers, the militias, the niggers. He's sitting in your midst. That's a shame! And the course and reforms that will be carried out are supported today by all the students except you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u63	Dear National Deputies! I remind the National MP that when your last name was mentioned, your last name was not mentioned.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u64	The faction of the right to replica, when mentioned, does not exist. So please read the Rules. Dear National Deputies! The statements by the authorized factions have been completed. For the suggestions made in the presentations that need to be responded to, please prepare the secretariat with appropriate instructions. Ladies and gentlemen, two factions -- the Timoshenko Block and the faction of "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" -- call for a 30-minute recess, as appropriate, before the Rules for Consultations on the Order of the Day Plenary and suggest that the matter be discussed at the Conciliation Council meeting without delay. In accordance with the requirements of the Rules, I announce a break of up to 11 hours for 25 minutes. I ask the factions to meet in the Cabinet of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as well as the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, please, for a meeting of the Conciliation Council. [[I don't see any Olga Bodnar here.]] Break until 11 o'clock, 25 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u65	Yes, Your Honor, I ask you to focus so that we can continue our meeting. The Conciliation Council ended. I'm asking the initiators to take a break, who's going to be speaking?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u66	Igor Green, please have three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u67	Dear Head, honourable members of the people, I would like to make a statement on why this break was necessary and what the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko is insisting on. As the parliamentary opposition insists on the resignation of the Minister of Education and Science and expresses its personal mistrust to Dmitri Tobacco. We were moved to this position: first, a consistent anti-Ukrainian policy and, according to Anna Herman, an anti-Ukrainian statement by Dmitri Tobacco throughout his entire life course. At the same time, it should be noted that this position, which it has really formulated since Ukraine's independence, has been one of those who voted, as a member of the Kyivrada, against State symbols and against Ukraine's independence. At the same time, we recognize his right to his opinion and political position as a citizen and politics, but we consider such statements to be incompatible with his being a government minister and incompatible with the official position of the Ukrainian government. The second question. Repeated open provocative remarks by Dmitri Tobacco, who falsify and distort Ukraine’s history and fuel national hostility and xenophobia. Such statements in any civilized country have not only a political assessment but should also be prosecuted by law as a criminal offence. And we'll take the opportunity to make a parliamentary inquiry, when this will have to be done to the Attorney General about the violation of the relevant criminal case against Dmitri Vladimir Tobacco. Third. So far, there are no official objections, both on the basis of court rulings and on the level of defence by Dmitry Vladimirovich of his own honour and the dignity of the accusations made by Deputy Prime Minister Boris Kolesnik of Ukraine today. And I'm just reminding everyone once again that Kolesnik called Tobacco a fiscal and museum thief, a corrupt and a cheap clown. Thus far, without defending his honour and dignity, the minister of Ukraine cannot be in such a position. As a native of Lviv, so - called Galician, who. I want to say that we are Ukrainian and we will never allow abuse of ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u68	Dear colleagues! I inform you of the agreement reached at the Conciliation Council. The Conciliation Council of Ukraine decided unanimously to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the issue of the resignation of the Minister of Education and Science should now be considered. May I have your attention, please? A statement by the author of the decision is within 5 minutes to justify his decision. Then the position of each faction on this draft decision is fixed, one minute, and immediately the vote. That is why I will now put to the vote a proposal for such a Rules of Procedure, because we must now vote on a special procedure by withdrawing from the Rules. I'm talking again. Such a rule is proposed to consider the question: the author of the draft decree – 5 minutes to justify his position, so that each faction, if so desired, would give its view to the draft decision – after one minute and then the voting procedure. I am voting on a proposal for such a rule of procedure. [[11:31:53]] For 264 Decision taken. Thank you for your understanding. Please, here's the question. Please don't disturb me. Viachelav Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u69	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine! ” Honorable colleagues, distinguished voters, respected teachers, and respected students! Today the issue is being considered, which is very important for all of Ukraine, not just for education, education, and university and university education. A question that is resonant from every point of view is being considered. There are at least three aspects to this issue. First. No matter how the ruling coalition is formed in a constitutional or unconstitutional way, no one has the right to appoint a post in the government of openly Ukrainian people, people who despise everything Ukrainian and stand up for this position publicly and officially, especially the minister of education and science, who is responsible for the upbringing of millions of young Ukrainians in school, in secondary education and in universities. This was the case with the appointment of Minister of Education of Dmitry the Tobacco. If Dmitri Tobacco continued to promote his political views as a member of parliament and politician, this would not have caused much public condemnation throughout the country. But when a minister of education comes to serve as a minister who divides Ukrainians into classes that essentially question the territorial integrity of the country, which in fact questions the existence of an independent Ukrainian state in the present borders, we have questions: what are the views that will be reflected in the new textbooks, what are the views that will be taught to the students of secondary schools, which is what science will be studied by the students of higher education institutions, when the Minister of Education has been directly and untraceable for many years and has officially promoted such views. When the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine says that more than five million Ukrainians living in Galician are not Ukrainian, people in essentially the second class, who only yesterday, quote him, learn to wash their hands, there is a question as to what culture, what culture, what culture, and what national dignity Dmitri Tobacco brings to students, teachers, parents, and all who observe and experience the quality of Ukrainian education. I'm not going to quote this professor's statement here, it's become popular and widespread. But I'm going to go over the second aspect, which is equally important. This is the aspect of independent testing. Dear colleagues! Everyone knows that the only reform that has recently taken place in the country is education reform and this is a knowledge-assessment reform as an independent assessment of knowledge. Thanks to this reform, millions of young Ukrainians have been able, especially in the last two or three years, only to gain their own knowledge of higher education. It became a practice when a person from the center, from the village, could choose a prestigious Ukrainian university and go there without his parents ’ wallet and without a high - level telephone from high offices, but only on the basis of independent testing of his knowledge and successful tests. This is what disturbs the part of Ukrainian society that concentrates on higher levels of Ukrainian education, which thinks that old corruption schemes must be restored, of course, by cancelling independent testing. So far this is happening in a slippery way. This year’s high school high school degree was taken into account. The following year, the introductory exams will be offered. This means that independent testing is completely meaningless. Because there's going to be a medal fight in any way in high school. And there's going to be a fight for a successful exam at every university, at every institute. This struggle, according to past practice, usually has a subjective fulfillment. Go to a manager like that, go to a superintendent like that, father, mom solves the question and your daughter, your son does. That's what the new minister of education is proposing, and he's not hiding it. Well, there's a third aspect. It irritates the new minister of education, meaning the entire governing coalition, not just independent testing, but the Ukrainian language, which, like Tess, is required in independent testing; Ukrainian literature, which is required for independent testing; and Ukrainian language, which is made up of tests by all those who want to enter higher education institutions. This would seem to be a major problem for the new minister and the new ruling coalition, but let us look at the figures. Prior to the appointment of Dmitri Tobacco as Minister of Education for Testing in Ukrainian, 400,000 graduates of secondary Ukrainian schools this year have already been voluntarily enrolled, accounting for almost 90 percent of their total number. I mean.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u70	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u71	Thank you. I mean, high school graduates don't hesitate to pass independent tests in English, teachers from higher education institutions don't be afraid of what comes to them, students with the right level, students with the right level of language, but the new minister of education and science is concerned about the fact that, at last, the language of the Ukrainian people has placed a well-deserved place in secondary education, higher education and generally in higher education. I think that this kind of approach that is demonstrated by the new minister of education and science, Dmitr Tobacco, is counterproductive and anti-Ukrainian. It is a figure that does not unite the Ukrainian people but separates them. We don't think it's necessary to prove the situation when the tension reaches the border, when the students go out, they start protesting the teachers, they start protesting the Ukrainian people. Such a minister, such a minister of Ukraine, should be filmed immediately, using the good will of the Ukrainian public and the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u72	Thank you. The statement has been completed. Dear colleagues, I ask of the factions. Which factions insist? Vladimir Yavorowski, Anatoly Grizzenko, Valerius Bondik will perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u73	Dear voters of Ukraine! A month and a half ago, the minister of education in Ukraine was a world - famous scientist, a man with a colossal moral and scientific authority. It seems to me that the Party of Regions, at least its superior leadership, has made a fatal and suicidal mistake by recommending and leading the education minister, that is, the minister who is shaping the future of Ukraine, Dmitri Tobacco. Here you could talk about that colossal chauffeur that's dragging, the immoral chauffeur that's chasing this man, from the colonel's name to the criminal prosecution of stealing documents from the lion's archives, selling counterfeit paintings, and so forth. I mean, in a normal country, once again, a person with such a tail and with such tails would obviously not be allowed close to being a minister. I'm not talking about his political views anymore! What kind of nation could the people afford to put in the chair of the minister of education?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u74	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u75	who despises this nation, disrespects its history. Because even if we don't get votes today, we won't stop anyway. I don't think the Ukrainian people can handle it. As a result, we today stand on the point that this person is not fit to sit in this position. And this is a fatal mistake of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u76	Thank you. Anatoly Grizzenko. The faction “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Then there's Valery Bondick.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, let's look at this problem not because of the prism of the “outsider” but because of the prism of the “future”. I think it was a human error for the new president and the coalition. Convinced that each of the three factions of the coalition has better candidates for this position. Why was that a mistake? The question of professionalism and the level of knowledge is not questioned. It's all in Dmitri the Smoker. But the simple question is, does his figure, his candidate, his country's activity -- one that's fixed to the board by the CBC in two colors? Convinced - does not unite. So I think this mistake needs to be corrected and corrected -- that would be a sign of coalition power, of the ability to make the right conclusions. I propose to vote in favour of resignation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u78	Valerius Bondik, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u79	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I ask you to add one minute, because I have asked for a word from the faction, and according to article 50 of Part Four, the person authorized by the faction is entitled to speak from the faction when the whole faction was offended. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, prominent, nationalally conscious parts of this hall! You know, anything. Yes, I'm talking to you. Anything to say, but Dmitri Volodymyrovich Tobacco even knows you better than that native Ukrainian language and does a lot to keep it both in schools and in VUZA and so on. You know, it's even a tragedy when system reform starts looking for someone who hasn't done anything yet, and they're already starting to insult him somehow. There's a constitutional path, go to court, find the minister's actions illegal. The decision of the court in the name of Ukraine should be carried out. But what did Dmitri the Better Smoker do? I think he did what he did to break the corrupt rings. When they were there.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u80	Finish up, please. Well, please, talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u81	He broke all these corrupt rings when, for example, the former minister had to find out, the accreditation of a university, and you know the autonomy of colleges, is a requirement of the Bologna process, where we're going with you, to Europe. He's broken this system, and now he's getting this stun from some sort of conscious student. But we know who brings these students out, who brings them out. Ladies and gentlemen, please come to your senses, because you know how many students there are in Ukraine, for one minister, for one minister, for one minister in the West, for the other. This should not be the case, there is authority, there should be respect for authority. If there is a minister, if there is a minister, he is. If you have nothing else, try it in court.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u82	Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I would like to remind you once again that a replica is right when it comes to the name of a national MP. Have a seat, please. Look at article 50, which says so. Please. The faction is guaranteed the right to speak by a representative of the faction, but he is only entitled to a replica when it is called the deputy’s name in the speech. I'd like to ask an honorary colleague to teach the Rules. Yes, please, who else is asking? Catherine Samuel, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u83	Thank you. Honorable colleagues, distinguished educators, respected leaders of higher education institutions! As you can see, today is not about the fact that Dmitri Volodymyrovich is not a professional. No, he's a professional, no, he's a scientist. It's not about education today, it's about blacking out in education, ruining education, and continuing science. And I think today, for our coalition, for all education and science, Ukraine is a trial stone. Today, after destroying one minister, they want to destroy everyone in turn. I don't think we're going to support this decision in general, in any way. We support the reforms that are proposed, we support everyone's opinion without exception to the rectors who held their meeting on Thursday and think that this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u84	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u85	The decision will be rejected. And enough political squabbles here, there will be no going back.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u86	Thank you. Dear colleagues. Now, yes. Who else insists? [[B in m in s a l in]] No, well, dear colleagues, we agreed on one faction at a time. We voted in favour of the corresponding Rules. I'm one of those people who didn't. Final word, one minute, Viacheslav Kirilenko. Well, we voted 250 votes with you, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u87	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine! ” Dear colleagues, well, first of all, you can have a degree in science, a title, but you can hate Ukraine and at the same time claim to work in the Ukrainian government, under the Ukrainian budget, for Ukrainian money. The other one. You can write a lot of articles, but you can be a retrograde, and you can essentially restore corruption in education. Well, that's the last of it. Despite the cries of the Communists, the hysterics of the ruling coalition, we can report it. That even if there is no decree today to release Ukraine’s Dmitry Tobacco, I myself, Ukraine’s national deputy Viacheslav Kirilenko, will today register a new draft decree on the release of Dmitri Tobacco from the post of Minister of Education and Science. And we're going to do this in Parliament and outside Parliament until this person leaves Ukrainian education, Ukrainian universities, Ukrainian schools and higher education reform in peace. And this is not hindered by the cries of the communists the other day, nor by the misunderstanding of the situation on the part of the ruling coalition. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter is closed. Please prepare for the vote. I'm voting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling, registration number 6183, on the release of Minister of Education and Science Dmitry Volodymyrovich. [[11:48:03]] For 202 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, "Club of July Timoshenko" – 146, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 56, communists – 0, "Club of Lithuania" – 0, non-fractional – 0. This is no way to make a decision. Honorable colleagues, clarifications. Colleague Bondick spoke of his right to a replica according to article 51, paragraph 4, in case the faction was mentioned. That is true, but one point is that if an address or a national MP or factions speak abusive words. There were no offensive words today. In this case, they are entitled to a replica. And I would ask us to continue to support ourselves, dear colleagues, from this understanding that we are on a hot Sunday, and let us remember that. Dear National Deputies! A draft Act amending the Customs Code of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the use of information given to customs authorities]] The reporter is Ukrainian national deputy Andrey Schlell. Correspondent is deputy head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy Bondarev Konstantin Anatoliyovich. At the same time, National Deputy Andrew Schlell wrote: “Please postpone consideration of the draft law, namely this law, the co-author and the reporter of which I am, from the date of the High Council meeting on 30 March to the next plenary week in view of the impossibility to report personally from the above-mentioned question.” At the same time, a national MP present in the session room, I can place, honourable colleagues, solely for the voting of this proposal. I'm voting on a motion to postpone the consideration of the draft law. [[Registration number 2063]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:50:21]] For 148 The decision is not taken. Let us begin our consideration of this matter, Andriy Vasilovich, please prepare for the Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy of Bondarev Kostin Anatoliyovich. And before our colleague, honourable colleagues, starts speaking, I inform you that we have arranged for a meeting of the Conciliation Board because we have already held a meeting of the Conciliation Board, for this, there has been a break that at 12 o'clock we will not announce a recess in order to be able to work. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u89	I want to remind you that this bill is old enough to have a long history, and in 2008 it was proposed for consideration by the Supreme Council, and I don't know, it just suddenly went off, maybe with the appointment of a new customs chief. But what I'm saying is that the bill itself is essentially very simple. The changes are made to several articles and so - called anti-dumping investigations are available and information about the activities of the executive authorities can be used to carry out their designated mandates. In principle, this is all that the law contains. The anti-dumping investigation, I'm not going to decrypt, we're all perfectly aware of what's going on, and in this situation I'm just doing formal functions, because in this situation I'm personally not sure that this bill is so relevant that I'm now and so actively considering it. But nevertheless, I think that in the background of the situation that's going on, the economy in Ukraine, and I want to stress, we all have to expect a better life today, God forbid that the deterioration doesn't happen tomorrow. So in principle, I think that this bill can be considered in the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, if you have a question for the rapporteur, please sign up for the question. A record is being made, please put the names of the national MPs on the information board. Valery Bondick, please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u91	Dear Mr. Andrey, why do you give up your bill if it's for the benefit of a domestic manufacturer, if he's holding back the flow of this cheap ex-import, I'm sorry who came in here, the chicken legs and so forth, you know who was involved, there might be some representatives of your faction. So I think we need to look at the Customs Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u92	Thank you. First of all, I didn't say that he wasn't needed, second of all, I'm asking for any charges here, but you're a lawyer, actually, to quote, if you know anyone who did this, you go to the appropriate authorities. Now, by the way, all these organs belong to a coalition that you're involved in, which is why you're not actually talking to me. I simply said that I was surprised that on the first day after a two-week break, so to speak, in the activities of the Supreme Council, this was the first law laid down in that I expressed surprise. Although it contains standards for carrying out so-called anti-dumping investigations and allows them not only to stop cheap or unnecessary imports or exports but also to enable them to explore and ensure order and security in our internal market.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u93	And Gregory Smythech.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u94	Gregory Smythuch Party of the Regions. Dear Andrey Vasilovich! I'm also surprised by your position that you're somehow so insecure about reporting this law. Because anti-dumping investigations for our country, for the economy, are an important tool that regulates exports and imports. Do you understand? If anti-dumping investigations are used against our manufacturers, starting in Russia, ending in the European Union and other countries, why is this not the case in Ukraine? And unfortunately, I thought you were going to prove to us some statistics on this issue, and how many anti-dumping investigations are being conducted in Ukraine today, how do they affect the positive portion of the budget? Yes. And how have we been affected by the process that we associate with the introduction to WTO, such as the decline in statistics, the increase in statistics, the impact on manufacturers, and so forth? So I would like you to explain at least some data so that we can determine whether or not to support this bill. This is an important question and it should be present, and you should rejoice that it is in the order of the day today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u95	Thank you. Yes, actually, after the adoption of this law, when it's possible to conduct anti-dumping investigations, then there'll be statistics. Now anti-dumping investigations are being conducted mainly against Ukraine, and you know it. So once again, I was surprised that this bill was put in place first. That's it. And what he has also so-called anti-subsidies and special investigations, these investigations can be carried out by means of amendments to the Customs Code, because this is the bill that is proposed -- amendments to the Customs Code, that is no more. It's not a novelty, it's not a new law, it's just that we're allowing the Customs Code to be used to conduct anti-dumping investigations? That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u96	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Bondarev Constantine. A, will report to Terjehin Sergey Anatoliyovich, please, Sergey Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u97	Thank you, fellows of honor! One more time about the essence of this law. The project proposes to expand the application of customs statistics in order to protect the rights of national producers in anti-dumping investigations. It is also proposed that, instead of providing information on export volumes and imports of specific types of goods, only national statistics authorities should be allowed to provide such information to the legislative authority and the central executive authorities to carry out their statutory powers. In this case, it's the Ministry of Economics and Customs. Information on export-import operations of specific external economic entities is proposed to be made available in addition to the entities identified by the Customs Code that are also authorized to conduct an anti-dumping investigation. Regarding the amendments to Article 308 of the Customs Code, the committee notes the following: The legal basis for obtaining, using, disseminating and storing information, regulating access to information, protecting is regulated by the Constitution of Ukraine, the Information Act, the Law on State Statistics, the Customs Code, the Code of Masters, instructions on the order of accounting, the storage and use of documents on the rights of publications and other material media containing confidential information, which is the property of a State approved by the Cabinet of Ministers and other legal acts. These legislative acts contain standards for the protection of confidential information included in them in the recommendations of the European Commission for the implementation of international standards into Ukrainian legislation. In view of this, it would be appropriate to propose Article 308 of the Customs Code concerning the authorisation of information on the volume of exports and imports of specific types of goods, instead of the words “the legislative authority and the central executive authorities to carry out their statutory powers”, to insert the words “specially authorized central executive authority in the field of statistics”. Regarding the proposals for amendments to Articles 305 and 309 of the Customs Code, we note that this is taken care of by Ukraine's Special Law on the Protection of the National Manufacturer from Dempping Imports. In addition, Ukraine's laws on the protection of the national producer from subsidized imports and on the application of special measures for imports into Ukraine provide for anti-subsidy and special investigations. Therefore, it is worth adding to the proposals for expanding the scope of customs statistics, as well as these two types of investigations. As a result of the committee's discussion, a decision was taken to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code should be adopted on the basis of the draft Law of the People's Deputies of Ribakov and School, and that it should be further elaborated on the second reading, taking into account the comments now made from the rostrum. [[Registration number 2063]] The main scientific and expert office supports the position of the committee. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u98	Yes. Dear colleagues, the report has been completed. Please, if there's a question for the committee head? Last name, please take me to the information board. Gregory Smythuch and Yuri Carmazin Please, Smith's microphone, the faction of the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u99	Garbage, faction of the Party of the Regions. Thank you. Dear Mr. Sergey, well, I've got it for you as the head of the committee. I don't remember that in recent years, your committee or the committee as a whole have been looking at the issue of export-import regulation based on the possibility of impact through anti-dumping investigations that protect the producers, our domestic producers. I asked the previous reporter a question. Maybe you'll tell us about the Ukrainian public, the dumping tool is on the table today, or is it being used effectively or ineffectively? Is the legislative plan sufficient to regulate the issue and to protect both the external and the internal market? Because today all the processes that are going on are processes that don't destroy the producers, they release the markets from the producers. And that's why we get bad food, including, especially in the agrarian sector or food. Please explain the statistics and what is happening and how.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u100	Thank you. As far as I know, well, first of all, all of these investigations are within the competence of the central executive authority, which is usually initiated through the Ministry of Economics and then implemented through customs. Usually, we don't have a constant, we don't have a figure, but exactly less than a dozen of all anti-dumping investigations are ongoing. Why so little? Because the tool is pretty inefficient. This bill also allows the Ministry of Economics and Customs to make it more effective by opening up information enough for the establishment of either anti-dumping or special investigation, or the establishment of a so-called compensatory duty, when there is a threat to Ukraine's payment or trade balance. On the committee, if I'm not mistaken about six projects there are, which concern this issue. And in this session, we want to bring them up to date. We've drafted one of them, and we want to bring it to the Supreme Council. This bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u101	Please, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u102	This bill, if you look at the date, was filed almost two years ago. So I don't know what principle it was going on today, because we also wanted to implement it into a general bill, but this is a good bill, it allows more flexibility to use these three types of investigations and protect the internal market from subsidized imports or dumped imports.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u103	Thank you. I can only inform the National Deputies that the schedule of meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is formed by the submission of committees and by the proposals of factions. Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin, please ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u104	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Sergey Anatolyovich, I do not agree with the fact that he is protecting himself from something or allowing himself to be protected. This is about making changes to everything in an article called “Mental Statistics of External Trade. ” What now prevents us from making any changes to this article on external trade customs statistics to conduct anti - dumping or other legal investigations? Nothing gets in the way. What prevents us today from taking the entire schedule? Nothing prevents the government from reaching a conclusion. So I think that somehow we're making an advance for such a tiny dot law that people today are actually going to think that some revolution is going on economically. No revolution is going on here, unfortunately, but it's just a simple clarification of the three articles of the Customs Code. Do you feel that there are still a number of articles that need to be made in connection with this, including the carrying out of an antidote?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u105	Mr. Carmazin, let me answer that, you're a broad profile specialist, but your question shows that it's not an anti-dumping investigation. Today, information on anti-dumping is provided only to the customs authorities. The central authority of the executive branch, which is empowered under the law to initiate the procedure, does not have such statistics. He can't take the anti-dumping procedure on his own. This requires that an entity contact him. That's the problem. As long as the subject is not approached by the enterprise, no one has a scratch on his nose, I apologize. And this law allows for a more flexible and more effective application of these three types of protection of the national manufacturer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u106	Thank you, Sergey Anatolyovich. It's all over, it's time. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a bill, first from factions, and then directly from national MPs. It's a recording. May I have the names of the people's deputies, please? Gregory Smith, please, faction of the Party of the Regions. Novikov will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u107	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, honourable colleagues, a bill that is under consideration today after amendments to existing legislation, I believe that it should be adopted in the first reading for the following reasons. The fact that he hadn't entered the hall for two years is, in principle, the committee. What's more, Mr. Terjochin headed the committee and headed the committee, he was in the governing coalition and he could ask this question, an important question or this whole issue of anti-dumping investigations, which is improving from the legislative field in order to make order in this area, could be cited, could have been brought to the Supreme Council long ago and considered. That's the first question. And to refuse this day to consider this important issue, I don't think it's necessary. The second question. As far as customs statistics are concerned. You know, customs statistics, of course it needs to be done, and today it needs to be served by the Ministry of Economics in order to make timely proposals for export-import regulation in Ukraine or to protect a domestic producer. And unfortunately, statistics don't always work, they only work as statistics, they just figure out the facts, and they don't use it anymore, so they don't use it. And in fact, it's a very important regulatory policy that actually regulates producers or markets that are filled with goods of not very high quality. Although Ukraine had signed the Soviet law, it had joined WTO, although Ukraine was recognized by most countries as a market economy country, the mechanism for anti-dumping investigations was not in fact used. We often listen to information from the media that tells us that against Ukrainian exporting producers, that is, in the first place, metal producers, yes, against our companies, either they are dumping Europe, or Russia, or in other countries, including China. And then, of course, our manufacturers are left alone with this tool. And my markets are the state, or my markets are the Ministry of Economics in this part, and I think they're not doing enough. And that's why the Ministry of Economics needs to pay attention to this issue in order for it to actually be a tool to protect a national producer, and this tool will therefore serve to increase or protect the producer in order to enable them to dispose of their products in the internal market. So I think that this bill needs to be supported in the first reading, given that it deserves to be expanded and considered more broadly, what Mr. Terjehohin said, which is six bills that need to be combined and addressed in a complex. So that we wouldn't have to delay for two more years, and that wasn't a matter of concern at all. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u108	Thank you. I would like to invite the People's Deputy Novikov. He's gone. Yuri Karmazin, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Prepare Lupini.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u109	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, two weeks have passed during the plenary sessions of the Supreme Council. We heard you and I were ready before the presidential election, the program. I'm asking, where is the program going to get out of the crisis? Where's the budget for this year? Where are the anti-crisis measures? There's nothing. Now, it turns out that only happens within 60 days to develop those programs. Dearly beloved, instead, we see specific projects, I stress, specific projects that were implemented two years ago, which were put into the agenda today. That's how they did it! So the entire government with the coalition didn't make it any more. As far as a specific project is concerned. Of course, there should be a central article here, not so much as customs statistics on external trade. Because, when there is a government and the government is effective, the government must clearly record and control what enters the state through customs. And for what purpose, and now here, in part three of the 305th, it is proposed to write that customs statistics of external trade are used by the relevant authorities, and three words are added: “to conduct anti-dumping investigations”. I mean, just as soon as we analyze it, as a base. More importantly, in my opinion, these changes proposed in article 308 of the Ukrainian Customs Code relate to the use of information provided to the customs authorities. Part two provides that information on export volumes and imports of specific goods may only be provided to the legislative authority and the central executive authorities to carry out their statutory powers. So I want to bring you back to the debate on the subject: what does the legislative body of executive power mean? We're with you -- the Supreme Council, in general, we're going to ask the question, what is the volume of exports, the import of specific types of goods? Obviously we're not going to do that, obviously it's going to be the Committee on Budget Affairs, obviously it's going to be the Committee on Tax Policy. Obviously, this could be the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption. For this reason, I believe that this concept of the legislature needs to be clarified here, and in general, it can be accepted in the first reading. But to remember what Terhochin said here today, we still have two laws called the protection of a national producer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u110	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u111	I'm finishing up, and, dear friends, is it not clear to the government that today there is also palm oil that is being replaced, replacing all fats and milk fats, and adding. And we can track it now. So I'm going to go to the government, please, we're going to accept these changes to the law, you're going to be relieved, but please give the program, give the budget, give what you promised to the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, as I have raised this issue several times today, I will inform you that the Conciliation Council and this position was the government, as we have heard, by the 11th of April, the government's programme of activity, as provided for by the Rules, should be introduced. So there can't be 60 days. A clear 30 days, so the 11th April program of government activity should be in the Supreme Council. And it'll be discussed in the committees, and then in the session room. I would like to invite Xenia Leapina, and we'll take stock.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u113	Xenia Lapina, group “For Ukraine! ” Dear colleagues, I believe this bill is worth the support. Although it is clear that this is not a bill that solves all questions in a comprehensive way. Today, however, such an amendment is both appropriate and appropriate. Let me explain why. Instead of crying to each other about the fact that there are too low-cost and low-cost markets, we have to learn to use the tools that are provided by the World Trade Organization mechanisms. And all of these mechanisms, they're applied to the initiative of the state itself or the market itself and to the competition of the parties, and to the evidence that collects that party that's not satisfied with the situation in a particular profile market. What is the situation today? Today, Ukrainian businesses have unfortunately found themselves unprepared to defend their interests. We've seen this before. In fact, they are simply unable to gather complex information in the market for a particular product. Why Incompetent? Because the special information of the customs authorities is not available to them. Note that this bill does not only propose customs statistics. He invites the authorities responsible for conducting anti-dumping investigations to provide information on each particular product, import-export and even on every subject that was previously allowed by law only to the authorities of the investigation. In fact, if there is one entity that imports dumping, in fact, it is not possible to obtain official information on it today within the framework of an anti - dumping investigation, since it is not carried out by the investigating authorities. In fact, the subjects themselves must collect this information on the market and then prove that it is reliable. Thus, in fact, anti - dumping investigations in Ukraine today are extremely difficult. 500 pages, volumes need to be collected to basically prove each number. So I think this bill is still important, even though it's incomplete. And he needs to be approved today. Such information should be made available in the course of anti-dumping investigations. And that's what's going to increase the security available, according to the WTO, to Ukrainian market tools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u114	Thank you. Does the reporter have a wish for a closing word? None. Dear colleagues, then I am voting on the draft Act amending the Customs Code of Ukraine, registration number 2063. [[on the use of information provided by the customs authority]] Please vote. [[12:17:02]] For 128 The decision is not taken. The committee, I think in that vote, I don't think there's any need to continue working with the law. The bill is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u115	Honourable National Deputies, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Food Safety and Quality Act is under review. [[on informing citizens about the presence of genetically modified organisms in food]] Reporter: National Deputy of Ukraine School Andriy Vasilovich, co-rapporteur, Head of the Committee on Health Affairs of Bahtiev Tetjana Dmitrovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u116	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'll try to brief the bill, it's very simple. Because if we were to adopt a radical enough law that changes the approach to products that are produced in Ukraine that are grown, produced from them, the derivative is the production of the following products. What does the bill mean? These are genetically modified plugins. When we're talking about genetically modified production, I'm the same proponent as everyone in this room, so it's not on our market. But the European Union, so I know that the representatives of the Party of Regions say that they do not mind that Ukraine is a member of the European Union, then the European Parliament has been adopted, by the European Commission, a European norm that is considered a product without GMOs. It's a zero. if less than 0.9 percent, then on the product, let's say, this water is not written as a product that is genetically modified or contains genetically modified products. I therefore believe that this will allow the Ukrainian producer to continue to go to European markets, to work with European products and to provide not only raw materials but also quality products from Ukraine to the European Union. So I think this is the amendment that will improve the law that we have adopted. And I want to stress once again that everyone understands. If 0.9 and above, for example 0.9 and 5 here, the percentage of GMOs in one product or another, it's written on the label, and it's provided by the bill that I'm proposing. which is offered to you for consideration. The EU foresees that the decryption of the availability of genetically modified products occurs after the content of this genetically modified product exceeds 0.9 per cent in either product. And I would stress that it's not even a percentage, it's 0.9 percent. Therefore, it is necessary to adopt this law in order to enter the European legislative field. And the fact that the government has not yet succeeded, he has recalled, all of them have been repealed, and including the government has been revoked and not yet introduced, I don't see the need not to vote in favour of this bill to wait and show again how advanced and experienced the government is. So the Supreme Council, in principle, I don't think it should be a service staff for the government. It's a higher legislature. And in principle, government is formed within the walls of the Supreme Council. And this is not to be forgotten by those who now, I think, will propose to postpone or not accept, not vote, but vote government. It's not about being unacceptable, it's about being positive, it's about being demonstrated by the positive side right now. And that's actually how the money is offered. Again, it's about marking. Product marking occurs when it contains more than 0.9 percent. Again, with reference to the European norm, I can even quote that in line with EU regulation 1829 2003 and the European Council of 29.03 on genetically modified food and feed and EU Regulation 2003 No 1830 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the possibility of control and ethics of genetically modified food and feed - mandatory labelling. It is here that we will act by adopting this law that we will act within the framework of existing European legislation. Now that we've gone to zero, what is there now in Ukraine? Now in Ukraine, any product has to be written without GMOs. It's kind of funny, if there's genetically modified products in it, you have to write about it, just give a label that they contain, notice, please pay attention to that. It’s like writing on cucumbers that tobacco is dangerous to your health, but what’s with cucumbers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u117	Dear colleagues! If you have any questions, please sign up. I would like the names of the national deputies to be placed on the information board, the Pavlovsky People’s Deputy, the BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u118	Dear Mr. Andrey! Indeed, in European countries some apply the norm when there is a percentage of genetically modified organisms in the product. But at the same time, so that this norm, when we write about whether or not there is a GMO, if there is an excess of a certain percentage threshold, does not become the kind of thing that makes non-lethal manufacturers of transnational companies that import different environmental waste into Ukraine take advantage of it. What is more, at the end of last year, we adopted a bill that I had the privilege of being the author of, that if there is a GMO in it, it should be informed and written: GMO. If not, the inscription “without GMO” is understandable, and we see today in stores that most good-natured manufacturers, traders.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u119	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u120	What about the answer?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u121	I'm sorry, please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u122	Thank you. I want to appease Your Honor's colleague Andrew, in fact, there are no cords here. Because just as the European Union has not become a dump for dependent non-essential products of transnational companies, so Ukraine is not a state by means of a European norm that is offered as a landfill for genetically modified products. When we're talking about inscriptions, there's a lot of pressure on the manufacturer, and he's happy to write without GMOs, because it's being considered by the advertising company. That doesn't prohibit this law, by the way. A product that does not contain GMOs can be marked with any label that informs the consumer. This does not prohibit, it is simply not mandatory for products where the percentage of genetically modified organisms is less than 0.9 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u123	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u124	Dear Andrew, the honourable author of this bill, in Ukrainian history, can even write our story for food. It is a famine when people ate rotten potatoes and rotten meat, and it is also a coastal time when we ate sausage with toilet paper. Today we have another colossal food, so to speak, trouble, this is GMO. The Yulia Timoshenko Block supports your bill because it's really relevant and very necessary. But I have one such suspicion or suspicion. You know, now that the Chinese are joking, whiskey can be released on the Podola, expensive cognacs, and so on, because it's a GMO, or it's 0.9 percent easy to prevent. You know how our people are resourceful, in their paws I say how to avoid this possible new disaster.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u125	Thank you. You know, our people are resourceful. Unfortunately, it's not the subject of this law, because counterfeiting is a counterfeit product. And when this product is legally imported into Ukraine with respect to current customs legislation or produced in Ukraine, it is said that it can be affixed by an unfair producer to a product that contains GMOs, that it is without such legislation, but that they have the appropriate authorities to control and punish it. But once again, I would like to stress that in this situation this allows us to be competitive, this law, in the European Union, which I think is important enough. By the way, I want to remind you of another idea that was: free economic zones. So the most genetically modified chicken was imported through the free economic zone, to the great regret that was located in the Donetsk region. So I would like to emphasize that we alone can turn Ukraine into a dump or a flowering garden.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u126	Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u127	Dear Andrey Vasilovich! I have a question for the following order. You know that part of our population is fed by the purchase of products on our so-called markets or markets. Yes, of course, and that these products are also part of our national security, our food national security. How do you see in your law that these products will be marked by these questions about genetically modified organisms or products that have been produced by genetically modified products. That's the first question. And the second question. You know there's an order for registration of genetically modified organisms in Ukraine today. But there is no registered product. Although Ukraine is rich in these products and very much of the particular plant origins, these products are grown in Ukraine, as you foresee in the law to ensure the safety of citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u128	I'm going to start with the second question, because it's completely solved in the law that we passed with you, which clearly foresees that there is no possibility of using genetically modified organisms in Ukrainian production. And actually, or if it's used, it's clearly marked and determined by the number of places. Because trust me, if you write to the consumer right now whether or not the other product, which is 90 percent of the genetically modified organisms, this product, the normal thing, is that no one will buy it. That's why it's a hard enough thing to do against those manufacturers who abused genetically modified organisms. When it comes to markets, all those markets where official products are sold — not natural markets — are properly equipped, equipped, where veterinary services are controlled, the veterinary services are obliged to control food and the content of genetically modified organisms. Now it's just going to be a little bit, literally slightly calibrated standards, 0.9 percent is not going to be considered a genetically modified product.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u129	Yes, thank you, have a seat, please. Bachteyev Tetjana Dmitrovna, head of the Health Committee, please, Tetjana Dmitrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u130	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people. I do not deny the importance of the bill that was submitted today by the People's MP, Andrei Shkil, to inform you that our committee has also considered the bill and the alternative bill, which was submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. But because it was withdrawn today, and the decision of our committee was based on a bill that proposed the Cabinet of Ministers and that our committee received very massive treatment from the Association of Food Producers, namely Ukrhlebprom, Ukrpivo, Ukrspirt, Ukrkonservmoloco, Ukrprofspilka, Ukrkonditer, Association of Juice Producers, Association of Mineral Water Producers. It is clear, however, that the essence of these producers is that these products cannot be carried by GMOs. Therefore, the requirements that we have today in our legislation, which is proposed by Andrey Shkil for a mandatory study and then only the definition after some analysis of the answer to the question is whether or not there is a GMO. They don't. This clearly requires extra waste because such research, in general, requires a minimum of 600 bracelets and a maximum of several thousand bracelets. This, therefore, makes products more expensive and, of course, detains our Ukrainian production. Therefore, our committee proposes that we resolve this issue once we have received, literally, the day-to-day bill that will be proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers. And after that, he'll look at it, and we'll definitely support it. Because today, without GMOs or GMOs, this is neither an international form nor a European form. We have to do it today. Right, Andrey Schkill says 0.9 and above. But those products that are not subject to this definition simply do not need to be marked without GMOs. Therefore, our committee's request, we have examined this issue in very detail, it is very important to support this which we will receive, and we will work very quickly on it by our committee, which is in the Cabinet of Ministers of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u131	Thank you. The question is, if there are, dear colleagues, to the head of the committee, we will now check. Please sign up for your statement. Names of the national MPs, please. The Pavlovsky People's Dept., faction of Yulia Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u132	Tatiana Dmitrievna, you have a question. It turns out that when the situation was at the end of last year before the elections, we vote unanimously in almost 400 votes for all factions to inform people of the availability of GMOs in food products. Then, after the election, some Ukrispirt corporations and other U.S. corporations appeal to you, lobby their interests, and you who are under the pressure of these corporations, lobbyists? I don't think we should do that. There are certain, maybe European standards that we didn't take into account when we passed the first law, that's what we do, but there's no way we're going to succumb to the pressures of different corporations and everything else, because give them the will, they wouldn't write about the composition of food at all. I think we should, Parliament, take a more firm position on controlling and informing the population about the quality of food. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u133	Thank you very much, my dear colleague. Absolutely not lobbying anyone's interests, absolutely. This is a practice that today, in all EU countries and today, the mineral water Morshinska is marked “without GMOs”. Why? It's worth some money. It's worth a beating. This requires further attention, and it may be that this is going to be a prolongation in the production of this product. So there's a list of products that I, as a doctor, understand, and you understand as a national MP that they go without genetically modified products. Therefore, such products do not require this marking, and where above 0.9 this marking must be. It's just that the normal situation that you have to understand is not in politics, it's completely unrelated to elections, it's just life-changing issues that we have to deal with in law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u134	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukrainian People's Self-Defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u135	Dear Aunt Dmitrovna, I respect you very much for your principled position, but I'm afraid it's not a matter that I've studied on the committee. I'll tell you why and I'd like to ask you to work on the GMO issue right now. The fact is that GMOs are already a real threat to society today. A real threat to society. We have the Law on the State Biosafety in transporting there, the preservation and so forth of genetically modified organisms, which obliges the Ministry of Health to register GMO food. Make a food registry. MinAPC is committed. The money was spent on this. Costs are wasted. There are no registers so far, and all these laws make no sense if they don't. The seeds that are being transported today are not tested for GMO content. Again, your committee in this regard does not yet require that this be done. Please tell me what you want, how you're going to do to change this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u136	Yuri Anatolyevich, I always agree with you, solidarity with such a very responsible and literate people's MP. Of course, you said correctly that such products should be on the register, and of course this is the work of the Ministry of Health. We can make this clear to the second reading of the bill, which will be from 09 to above. That's why I accept your amendment. I think she'll make sense, and we'll support her.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u137	Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u138	Dear Tatiana Dmitrievna, I have a question for you as a medic. Please tell us, Ukrainian citizens as a medic: Does the GMO affect human health, its life expectancy? And how does this affect the fact that in Ukraine these products have been actively distributed, cultivated, distributed, introduced into our daily lives? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u139	Of course, all of us today realize that where GMO products are, they are very sure to have a beautiful appearance, but that within that, of course, the health sector and the food authorities must be responsible. We probably know today. Just 30 years ago, they wondered if a chicken or a pig could grow up in some literal months and pounds when it reaches both 600 and so on. This is all done by GMOs and, of course, these modified products are very harmful to the body, especially to children. And in a bill that I have already presented in my first reading on the quality of children's food, where we pay very close attention not only to the products that our children are using today, but also to mineral water. Because it should not only be without GMOs and products that are in specially defined zones where food plants are present.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u140	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u141	A mine near, let's say, even so many ecologically friendly areas. Therefore, this responsibility today is ours, the State, and I think that this bill and the bill on child nutrition will address very severely the quality of food.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u142	Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u143	The great Aunt Dmitry! Indeed, we should do our utmost in our committee to protect people’s health and really approach them in a practical way. And once I've looked at this bill's committee, I'll get information that the number of laboratories that are in Ukraine is small. Each laboratory can do up to 20 studies of one product or another. That is, we must also realize that the introduction of this law requires great expense. Because there has to be a number of labs, and they really have to be complete so that they don't create obstacles again for the manufacturers of this product. So maybe this is more of a proposition than a question that we should consider when deciding whether to accept a bill or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u144	Thank you, Vladimir Grigoryevich. Of course, we realize today that not only the quality of food but also the quality and quality of vaccines and medicines remain highly questionable today. Because labs that can be counted literally into two, on three fingers, of course, are not enough. And we will make such proposals, proposals for regional laboratories to monitor both the quality of food and medicines. We will necessarily make and keep talking about this proposal to our committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u145	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, Aunt Dmitry. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the discussion. Yes, by factions, and now by national MPs. Please put your name on the board. Sergey Tereshuk, Lithuanian Block faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u146	Dear, distinguished colleagues! The issue of the use of genetically modified organisms or products containing genetically modified organisms is extremely complex. The challenge is that in the world today, there is no single point of view, no single position of scientists in terms of damage, harm, or lack of human activity. The challenge is that according to scientists, recent studies have shown that harmful effects may occur in the third, fourth, fifth generation. So research today is only at that initial stage. We also have to take into account that today the use of genetically modified plants is being lobbyed by large transnational corporations. This allows them to make a substantial cost of production. So it is business, not human health. On the other hand, we can agree with our colleagues that the problem is not only that of branding or not marking products, but that the problem is much deeper. Today, there are officially no plants in Ukraine that are genetically modified. At the same time, according to the latest data, about 60 percent of the soybean seed hangs precisely the soybeans that are genetically modified. So in the first phase, I agree with Deputy Carmazin, we need to put order in order so that we really know that the feeds aren't genetically modified. Tell me, the factory that manufactures the food, if it comes with a product that is not genetically modified, how does it know what kind of product it can produce? In addition, we must consider the economic situation in Ukraine. Today, there is no way to significantly reduce the cost of produce, because branding is at the price of production. In Ukraine, about 4.5,000 food is produced. Only 50 food products can theoretically be made from products that are genetically modified. Genno-modified – it can only be that product where there is protein. On the one hand, then, there is the question of the health of the nation, on the other hand, about the purchasing power of our population. In addition, what has been said is that there are not enough laboratories today that can provide reliable information. So obviously, we need to listen to the profile committee, we need to approach it with balance, we need to take into account the bill that the Cabinet of Ministers passed, which it called out, but which we're going to consider, we can't postpone this bill. We need to approach a balanced approach so that we can adopt a bill that will ensure the health of the people and at the same time will not hit the consumer’s pockets or hit the economy of the enterprises that produce this product. Clearly, then, we should support the second draft in the first reading and wait for the second draft to be produced together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u147	Valerius Bondik, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! Indeed, if our Constitution, the Constitution of Ukraine, views human life as the highest social value, the State must protect the life of this young person with all its means. Why do I say that? Because in our years of independence, we've broken all the standards. We're kind of going to Europe, but look at how in Europe this legislation is about genetically modified products. We're trying to get ISO-9000, which is the European standard, and you're looking at how our manufacturer is being buried. Dear colleagues, the bill is only needed in a sense if it can be merged with the government. Why? Because -- we want it or we don't want it, but transnational corporations are developing. A lot of science works, it's active in this sector. The whole world has come to realize that some percentage of genetically modified products that go into human food are codified, and some percent, for example, are not codified. So my suggestion is that you could accept it in the first reading. For what: to allow Parliament to prepare itself and to make a joint bill. Let it be part of the government, let it be part of the MP. But we can't do that on our planet and lose ourselves with this genetically modified product. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u149	Ivan Alexandrovich Hare, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u150	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem is much broader than we want to issue it with this legislative initiative. And the thing is, in the middle of Ukraine, you can grow cultures that are the result of these gene studies and you can put GMOs in them. And the thing is, we can have GMO products coming to our market from abroad. Now we're narrowing this problem down to one: when does the manufacturer have to mark, at what level? If the content of GMOs is up to 0.9 tens, no one marks anything. If after 0.9, whoever knows that there is GMO content in the product, they should mark it. Now, according to current legislation, products are marked if they're GMOs and there's no GMOs. That is, there is no GMO – he writes: “a product without GMOs”. For me, like a buyer, this is a better standard for me. Because someone who writes that this product without GMOs is responsible for hiding this information. And he can be called to account. If we don't label products and there's GMOs in the product, I consume them, I, for example, have some damage to our damage. And then they say, you punish the person who hid this information. Well, what did she hide from that information? But human health has also been damaged. So today the problem lies in what plane: who has to share the cost of marking, or do they not mark GMOs? Some say that if a manufacturer is branded without a GMO, it's going to be such a crazy cost. But there'll be no crazy expenses. Today, technology allows all these things to be done, and it's a small cost. The cost of the other is that you have to standardize production, that you have to keep track of the raw material coming, you have to standardize the technology itself so far. That's where the main costs are today. So I think we need to go to this problem a lot wider than we need to go before we label it, or we can't mark it. How to limit the impact of GMOs on human health, what is the standard for not affecting human health, where we should dig. So I think that, I don't see any economic grounds here to break the existing standards today, it's a small cost, but I want it not to be a manufacturer in conditions. That is, it was not the consumer who sought responsibility under the conditions of lawlessness, but rather that the manufacturer himself take responsibility for producing the product, whether it is from GMOs or whether it is without GMOs.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u151	Pavlovski National Deputy, Timoshenko Yulia Block. Gregory Smythech will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u152	Honorable National Deputies, distinguished compatriots! Let me remind you that this is a recent story. A few months ago, to implement the Cartagena Agreement signed by Ukraine in 2002 and article 50 of the Constitution, which states that the consumer has the right to know what quality and composition of the product he consumes, we were together, under almost 400 votes passed a bill that requires labelling, information, and genetic-modified organisms in or out of food. I don't know what the problem is either. Yes, this is a problem for some unscrupulous manufacturers, merchants, importers who want to hide the warehouse. The content of this product. Why? Because there's a powerful economic support. And because, for example, in the same European countries where this issue has long been regulated, these products, with GMOs, are worth 20-30-40 percent cheaper than they are environmentally clean. That's the secret, you know? I don't want the profits that transnational corporations get, the billions of dollars a year, and I don't want to give a penny to this native population in Ukraine. And it's not the crazy cost, as they say here, of making stamps, it's the penny of their profits. And do you know what the problem is: whether it's a GMO or a GMO-free label? And as for the labs, they said here, but there's the Helpdesk standard that in Ukraine enough of these labs, they're in almost every district center. And that's a small cost, a few thousand dollars to pay for this research. I think the problem is that someone is used to profiting, not sharing anything with the population of Ukraine, and doesn't want a social redistribution of these. We need to take a closer look at the root. And so I want to point out that in the same European countries, in the same France, it is mandatory to write with or without GMOs. And we're looking at France, we're doing the government service on this example in our time. And so I think you can agree that you can put some percentage in there. For example, write “with GMOs” if it exceeds what 0.9 percent is proposed. But writing "with GMOs" if they go beyond that threshold. And "no GMOs" write if there is no GMO. And so it's for a good-natured manufacturer that it's a commercial that he's environmentally clean, with all the standards, of production. And I think we should leave the law in force. Go to the store, already 90 percent of the manufacturers who are honest, who work honestly in the market, they write, it's not a problem for them. And the problem is for unscrupulous manufacturers and importers.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u153	Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions. Next is Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, in fact, I'm referring you all to the fact that this question is not as simple as it can be shown to you. And whether there will be branding on a bottle or on a package, the health of the population will not increase. Please tell me, the cigarettes on the box say it's bad for your health, has anyone stopped smoking? No, it's not. Did we have a legislative obligation to write this, to reduce the disease associated with smoking? I don't think so. That's not the point. I ask questions to myself and to you. Please tell us, is such a beautiful Ukrainian land, or can it feed our half 50 million inhabitants? And can another 50 million, as a minimum, provide the population with export opportunities for food? Of course he can. It can not only be without GMOs, but it can be completely without the use of chemical and other fertilizers that affect the health of the population. And why would Ukraine, if this phenomenon is not studied, if it is not clear, and most medical experts agree with the view that it is harmful to health, it reduces human life, it does not adequately affect human development, and so on. So why is it that in Ukraine we do not forbid and make our land clean from these foods, which is difficult? I don't think so. Take the second problem. Do we consciously know how many plants, plant origins, or other additives used to feed our livestock are imported, or do we know how many chickens are imported, or do we know how much pork was produced? Nobody knows this statistic, I've been speaking and I'm suggesting that we join the idea that Ukraine should be free from genetically modified organisms. And that's the only guarantee when it gives health to the population, and health, that's our budget with you. And health means healthy parents and children. That's all human life consists of. So it's going to be so painful, it's going to be so necessary to solve it and it's going to have to be decided fundamentally, and let's write it down, it's going to be cheaper, it's going to be the same girl, it's going to be the same worker, because she thinks it's a normal product. Lately, I've been paying attention to the STB channel program, and I'm grateful for the editing of this channel, and it's put a lot of programs with food problems, our products. You look at these programs, it's scary what our gastronomy is doing. Because no one controls it, and someone hopes to control it, some lab will give a conclusion, or will the manufacturer write and thus increase the health of the population? You're wrong! I call on everyone and I urge you, let's ban this phenomenon in general and then we'll put a stop to it. As an example, you remember for two years I fought the ban on gambling.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u155	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u156	And what happened, we banned it. Yes, it is, but the phenomenon is almost destroyed. Thus, it is only in a radical way that we can fight this unnecessary thing that has been imposed on Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u157	Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Next is George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u158	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The bill proposes that the food label should indicate whether or not genetically modified GMOs are available or not in food only if the proportion of genetically modified organisms in the food product exceeds 0.9 per cent of the total mass of the product in the package unit. The project meets the requirements of the European Parliament and the Council of 22 September 2003, which are established that products produced and containing genetically modified sources are subject to mandatory labelling if the product contains more than 0.9 per cent of GMOs separately with components. But once again, I emphasize, but in the case that GMOs don't exceed these thresholds, the level, the product can be marketed without special markings. So if you have less than 0.9 GMOs in the product, this product can be marketed without special marking. No consumer information requirements for the absence of GMOs are set. However, the State has assumed the right responsibility and the cancelling of less than 0.9 percent of GMOs can affect many vectors of human and social activity. In this regard, we support the faction of the Party of the Regions that supports the opinion and proposal of the committee of the Supreme Council of Tetjana Dmitry of Bahtieva to reject the bill and to vote in the first reading for the bill to be tabled by the government of Mikla Janović Azarov. And adopted in the first reading, in the process of redrafting the second reading, the individual points that are set out in the Andrew School Bill can be taken into account in the drafting of the government bill. And this bill is a faction of the Party of Regions that recommends rejecting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u159	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u160	Yuri Carmazin, a party of domesticists. Dear colleagues, I would like to express a few points in connection with the consideration of this law. The first here was some myths, myths that we don't have laboratories that check for GMO content and so on. I want to inform you that we have 14 labs in one department today -- State of the art, plus 25 in MOZ and MinAPC. And by the end of the year, there must be 17. Throughout Europe, there are 100 labs across Europe. I just want us to stop talking about it. That's enough labs. That's the first one. The other one. Can we be sure that people are buying, that you and I are buying products without GMOs today? No, we can't be sure. Because of what? Because you and I destroyed the control system. How were they destroyed? We recorded the warning -- it can only be about checking in 10 days. During the 10 days of reporting, there is no longer the product that has been produced and contains GMOs. Next. Sample selection. Have we made any money? No, we didn't. Neither last year’s budget nor this year’s sample selection takes place. So let's be honest with you that the standards of the Constitution are not being fulfilled. Now, what do we need to do about the threats we face? I asked Aunt Dmitry’s questions in vain. Because I'm saying that we don't have all the seeds tested, that it's the seeds that the GMOs are bringing to us, the soybeans and the experts are already saying 60 percent and the corn is genetically modified. There is no mechanism for tracing from seed to specific consumer, and then there is no production from that seed in the country. So far, as I have pointed out before, there is no food register, no food register that neither the Ministry of Health nor the Ministry of Health nor MinAPC do. And finally, I'd like you, my dear friends, to give us the data that we absolutely need, even the bees are dying of genetically modified organisms. Bees die. There are studies that show evidence that transgenic cultures have a negative impact on beneficial insects, including bees. In France it's forbidden to grow a genetically modified sunflower. So did British scientists. This is what happened in the Philippines, where the population lives near the areas where they began to grow. Corn, after some time, the islanders began to suffer from respiratory, gastrointestinal, and skin diseases as well as fever. It's the GMO's fault. So I agree with what GMOs need.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u161	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. Does the author require a closing word? No, it's not. Dear colleagues, the government's comments are before this bill? I can't see. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of a draft law amending the Ukrainian Food Safety and Quality Act on informing citizens about the presence of genetically modified organisms in food products. Please vote. [[13:02:24]] For-151 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on voting for re-reading draft law registration number 6001. Please vote. [[13:02:50]] For 171 The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. Olesia Donny, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, during the vote in favour of the Minister of Education of Tobacco, unfortunately I did not have the "Council" system, and I have already written a statement to the Chief of the Supreme Council, Mr. Zajczuk, and I would like the transcript to indicate that I voted in favour of the resignation, I ask you to note that, so that the resignation was not voted 202 deputies, but 203. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u163	Thank you. Andrew School, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u164	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, for my vote. Well, by the way, I think it's been done one more time to bend over and demonstrate that the government is introducing better bills than the MPs. This is, I think it's an approach that's demeaning in general, a higher body of legislation. Because the government is still there. I apologize for the non-parliamentary expression already, because I can't hold back, and we all have to eat genetically modified products with you. Why we did it, I don't understand. On the one hand, on the other hand, we force our manufacturers to go, that is, to flee the European market. It was, I say again, the full responsibility of the faction of the Party of Regions for not voting for the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u165	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law is now under review, and I see changes to the Ukrainian Act on Victims of Nazi Persecution. [[Registration number 2057]] [[on the age of juvenile prisoners and on the size of pension increases]] At the same time, the author of the draft law, National Deputy Szczerbán Artem Volodymyrovich, wrote: “Please withdraw the relevant bill from the Supreme Council of Ukraine.” I'm going to put this motion to the vote, and I ask you to support, Your Honor, the removal from the draft law. [[Registration number 2057]] Please vote. [[13:05:26]] For 132 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, there is an offer to consider a bill for. Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u166	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, there is a proposal not only for this bill but also for all others who are scheduled to be considered under a reduced procedure today. Because there are so many social laws that citizens of Ukraine await, and we have to consider them. And I would like to support the room with this proposal to consider short-term bills and to support the social orientation of laws. Because this bill, which the faction of the Party of Regions has just tried to withdraw, is about to raise pensions for juveniles. That is, when they were in opposition, they took care of increasing pensions for juveniles. When they come to power, the law is already being proposed not to consider. Shame! Minors should be supported. There are not many of them left to raise those tiny pensions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u167	Dear National Deputies! In accordance with the Rules, I will therefore put every bill on which the proposal is to be considered for a reduced procedure to be put to the vote. So I'm voting on a motion to review the shortened procedure of the draft law. [[Registration number 2057]] Please vote. [[13:07:09]] For-141 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the return to the vote to consider this bill on a reduced basis. Please vote. What a laugh, dear fellows. Let's identify ourselves. Please vote. Here comes the vote. Why don't you vote? [[13:07:43]] For 148 The decision is not taken. The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine, Sterbán Artem Volodymyrovich. Please. None. The Coroner is the first deputy head of the Committee on Questions. Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u168	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! This is about Bill 2057. The Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, at its meeting on 2 April 2008, reviewed the draft Act on the Victims of Nazi Persecution, submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the People's Deputies of the People's Republic of Sweden. [[on the age of juvenile prisoners and on the size of pension increases]] [[Registration number 2057]] The bill proposes to address the important issue of social protection for those who have been granted the status of victims of Nazi persecution. The listed category of persons prior to the adoption of the Ukrainian Act of 16.12.2004 No. 2256-4 on amending certain laws of Ukraine was referred to the relevant categories of veterans of war and benefits for them, including the extent of the increase in pensions, was determined in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans and the Guarantee of Social Protection. [[on the Social Protection of Victims of Nazi Persecution]] In view of the proposals made by the author of the bill, they correspond to the amount of promotions and pensions that veterans currently anticipate. It should be noted that a bill that does not require additional expenditure from the State budget of Ukraine, since those who are granted the status of victims of Nazi persecution are in fact now receiving an increase in pensions corresponding to the size of the bill's decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine since 28 May 2008 number 530 some issues of social protection for individual categories of citizens. The committee proposes to adopt the draft Law amending the Law on Victims of Nazi Persecution as a basis. We are informed that the Committee on Social Policy and Labour and Budget Affairs, which also proposed that the draft be adopted on the basis of the first reading of the draft as a basis for consideration. And since the bill has not been submitted by the author, I may have to perform this function to some extent. The point is that this bill is largely technological. In part of the age, it brings legislation, this specific Act “On Victims of Nazi Persecution” to popular practice in Ukrainian legislation, which sets the age of 18 years of age, as it is stipulated in all laws. With regard to the amount of pension benefits that are appropriate, in the case of victims of violent persecution, it is brought into line with the law on the status of war veterans and the guarantee of social protection. And actually, for today, these payments are being made in the same size as they are, but on the basis of the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. So the committee proposes to accept these changes to the law. They're actually the ones that are actually being implemented today. And I'll tell you more. If the meeting room of the Supreme Council is ready to vote in favour of this document in the second reading, it can be adopted by excluding the date of the introduction of the law, that is, from the time of publication. Because it's on the date of January 1, 2009. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u169	Thank you. Dear colleagues! If you have any questions, please contact your coconspirator. Well, we'll see. It's a recording. There is a question. Ivan Hare, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u170	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear reporter! You've drawn attention in this bill to the fact that age is changing, it's increasing to two years. You've pointed out that, as far as these proposals are concerned, we're also in line with other legislation. And if you take the article six six three, if you're talking about 50 percent of the minimum retirement by age, you're talking about 10 percent of the living minimum for people who have lost their jobs. If you put these two numbers together, how are they going to correlate? Is that going to be an increase, or is that going to be a decrease? So I'd like to hear where these proposals are going. Do they increase the benefits for these people, or do they decrease compared to existing legislation?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u171	Thank you for asking. Well, first of all, I want to stress once again that the law does not increase by two years of age, but it does bring about valid legislation in order to have the same age in all laws. As far as heights are concerned. At the same time, when the minimum pension in Ukraine amounted to €16,62, and then €19.91, there were also figures in the Law on the Status of War Veterans, the Guarantee of Social Protection: 400 percent, 300, 200 and so on. When a living minimum of, say, a minimum pension was set up away from the 16th quarter of 62 cents, it was decided to make a pension allowance, to a basic pension, to pay a certain percentage of the living minimum. And today, they look like, "On the Status of War Veterans, the Guarantees of Social Protection" in the Act: War invalids and groups -- 50 percent, group II war invalids -- 40 percent, group III war invalids -- 30 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u172	Let me finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u173	25 per cent, 10 per cent of the participants in the war. So the point is that this percentage approach to the minimum of living is introduced in the same law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u174	Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u175	Dear Peter Stepanovich, I am addressing you as a person who has long dealt with and cared for these problems with the provision of pensions and so forth, so to speak, the rights of our citizens. Please tell us and other citizens how many minors in our country have remained in the past of World War II prisoners? That's the first one. People as long as they have left. And the second question. Do you not consider such a possibility that there is a world experience, it is followed by the fact that part of the money compensated for those people who were forced to work abroad to Germany was a one-time compensation on the part of Germany, yes, in general. And there is another experience, when, according to the Holocaust of World War II with regard to the nation of Israel, Germany has so far paid them very high costs, they have already made up over 100 billion euros.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u176	Thank you for asking. I want to answer that way. Indeed, the victims of Nazi persecution were paid once and for all in Ukraine. And by the way, they took place in Ukraine also because the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted this law, and it opened the way to those payoffs. I, like you, think that the German side could continue this process. That's probably true, but the point is that once the compensation was paid at the expense of that party -- and they were accordingly regulating, like, the terms of those payments. That's why I'm in favour, but the decision is still behind the German side. As far as citizens are concerned. I don't have an exact number right now, but I think it's about 200 or 300,000, not more.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u177	Yuri Karmazin, faction “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u178	George Carmazin, I support the adoption of this bill, both in the first and second readings. And I thank you for your courage to say this right now that, in principle, you can adopt the law, Peter Stepanovich, both in the first and second readings. I'd like you to hear the sum of everything that's going on, and, if possible, in every article, to make it clear today not only to the MPs, but also to everyone who's listening to us today, to see that it's not that many of those people. It turns out that there are only about 6,000 of them in the state. And each article, have you done your calculations? Can you tell each article what a promotion is so that we can talk about it today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u179	Thank you for asking. Yuri Anatoliyovich, I, like you, and probably like those citizens who refer to that category, expect a pay increase, but this increase will be due to the 2010 budget adoption, because in this case it's about the size of the payments that are identical to the payments of the corresponding categories of participants in the war, they're being paid today, based on the relevant decision of the Cabinet of Ministers, that is, we need to bring two approaches into line today, to bring the same percentage approach to. From a minimum of living for the unemployed.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u180	Pavlovsky People's Deputies, Timoshenko's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u181	Dear reporter, two questions. It is clear from your statement that this issue has been resolved with regard to the increase of pensions for repressed minors. Nazi concentration camps were decided by the Cabinet of Ministers in 2008. Now it needs to be secured by legislation. And the second question is, isn't that why the Party of Regions is trying to withdraw this bill when they go to power, they've promised to increase life dramatically today, and once they've come to power, they're trying to make these social promises, to forget and to take down social bills, as was the bill on providing low-income families with children? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u182	I would like to stress again, I have already talked about this today, but the new approach to determining the corresponding status was initiated by amendments to the Law on the Status of War Veterans, the Guarantee of Social Protection as early as 2004. And the approach that went through this law, and the different categories of victims of Nazi persecution, they have the analogy in favor. Some analogy in the Law on the Status of War Veterans and the Guarantee of Social Protection. This approach was used by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in the adoption of Decree No. 530. That is to say, the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers and today's bill are based on the approach initiated by the Supreme Council of Ukraine with amendments to the Act on the Status of War Veterans, the Guarantee of Social Protection, as early as 2004. We're doing a technological job right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u183	Yes, thank you, have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the bill. Yes, please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Gregory Smythuch, please, the faction of the Party of Regions, next will be by Yuri Prokopchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u184	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, unfortunately, the drafter of the bill, who has not been on the report, and I have not been able to realize my right in part of receiving information: and how many of our citizens today in our Ukraine live here who were forced into Europe during World War II and were there when they were underage? Because, of course, children and children's lives are the main thing that is the acquisition of all parents, and at that time there were terrible things happening that the children at the time, and now they are already the eligible pensioners, were unable, so to speak, to fully develop their health and naturally to do things with their parents in their life plan. Therefore, all that is involved in the granting of benefits, in the granting of increased pensions, certainly needs to be supported, and this needs to be done at least at this stage of their lives, giving us the opportunity to provide at least their normal subsistence minimum. Is that the law? Is this the law that's got these problems? I don't think he's making up his mind. And of course, our nation, in such a difficult situation, has a lot of social problems that need to be taken into account and that need to be met in some way. Does this bill satisfy the needs of these citizens? I don't think so, but it's a good idea, and it needs to be supported, in my opinion. How has the world’s argument solved this problem? Well, for example, I asked Mr. Zibank a question, he didn't answer it, and I'll tell you that after World War II, when the consequences of World War II were considered, the nation of Israel decided this problem very coolly and very professionally. And very effective. As far as I'm concerned, I mean, Luxembourg's so-called deal, by which Germany is paying the price to date. These citizens, the nation of Israel as a whole. I may be wrong, but by now these amounts had already reached more than 120 billion infants by then. Do you realize what the price of money has been paid and paid? Although after the first covenant, it was only aid in the 1980 ’ s and then continued, it continued and continued. And I'm counting, asking the question: why was compensation once, and only if you remember, maybe I'm wrong, I don't give myself the right to be right, but it was on Germany's initiative that it was offered to Ukraine or to the citizens of the former Soviet Union to pay one compensation. And why Ukraine, why don't we, in our independence years, raise this question that these children were taken away? There is experience, there is practice, there is judgment. And it was based on a judgment of the Luxembourg Accords. On the basis of this decision, citizens and pensions today are given the opportunity to meet their health problems and so forth. And here's the committee, and here's our Ministry of Foreign Affairs here, where the job is. I don't think it's a lost opportunity. And I'm paying attention to both the profile committee and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is the subject, and we should.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u185	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u186	So I'm counting, of course, this law is important. There's both a pros and a pros. In general, it must be supported. But to solve this question, one of the tools or one of the ways I called it, and that's what I have to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u187	Yuri Prokopchuk, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u188	Yuri Prokopchuk, Timoshenko Yulia Block, Ravenshkina. Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! With regard to this bill, which is very important, very important for those who were deprived of their youth and of their childhood in prison, concentration camps and other fascist institutions and not only fascists, but those who were also in the territories, such as the Soviet Union, when they took place everywhere in Siberia, should also be counted there. The actual urgency of the anniversary to be celebrated, including in Ukraine, is that of victory in World War II. Therefore, the need for adoption is really relevant. But I'm surprised at this enough today, as it were, by a very cautious position like this, including from whose ranks the bill was introduced. [[Or how to say it in English?]] Honorable representatives of the Party of Regions, today's government, the President! I think that this bill, which really has good reasons, because there's so little in the budget to be grateful to these people who are said to have been in places of detention, concentration camps and so on. That is why I believe that this bill needs to be adopted today as a whole. And to put absolutely all the dots on not being a political pianist again, other things, the same can be done with regard to children of war who today do not receive their guaranteed social guarantees. So I urge everyone to support the bill under the title 2057 and vote it out in general, and I hope that the faction of Communists and the Party of Regions, the author who belongs to this political force, will give it to all of them, as they say in votes. Our "Julia Timoshenko Block" will support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u189	Yuri Carmazin, factions of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u190	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear National Deputies! I'm sure this bill is late, but it's a good thing that the budget hasn't been accepted yet, so I want to tell Mikola Janovich Azarov that this law needs to be fully funded. I've now wondered how much this law, honourable fellow MPs, is worth, what we have left these people talking about in this law are only about 6,000 people, about 6,000 people all over the state. The increase we're talking about today is 9 million 247,000. What is this compared to the cost of a colossal billion dollars to keep the President's secretariat, and so on, that's nothing, that's a penny. Thus, the question of Israel’s protection of the rights of its citizens in this regard is also quite correct. Yes, it protects Ukraine too, but it must be the only country that respects its dignity and obviously the dignity of its citizens. But it's not like that. Today we're being classy with them, and we're opening visas according to the decree that they're coming here in 2005, and they're putting all the other barriers on us. That is why I wish us this dignity and support the idea, and all the way to the point of this bill, I have read it, except for the term “acquisition of validity”, as the committee head rightly said, absolutely everything is normal in this law. You can accept it, the more the value of the law I called to you, is a small 9 million 247,000 and you can accept it in the first reading, and in general. I would like to point out in particular that it is very important that we are the term, which is our debt, when we made changes to article 6 of the Nazi Persecution Act, that we did not make those changes for 18 years instead of 16. We didn't make them, it's our mistake with you, let's fix this right now, and so this is going to be a small contribution to Victory Day. But this law must be passed before the budget is adopted, so that all of this is included in the budget. That's the opinion of the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense," and so does the country's advocates. We believe that this gift should be given to people before Victory Day and continue to require the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to put questions with Germany in negotiations and demand a higher payout for this category of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u191	The Pavlovsky People's Deputy, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko, passes on the right to speak to Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u192	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear citizens of Ukraine, who are monitoring developments in the hall. Today’s review of the bill amending the Nazi Persecution Victims Act is similar to that of Bill No. 1416 on raising State aid for low - living families. This bill, sponsored by Michael Papiev, was registered a year ago when the Party of Regions was in opposition. This bill provides for increased payments to low - income families. But after the Party of Regions came to power, she refused to vote in favour of the bill in the second reading. I would like, Mr. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, to remind the Head of the Supreme Council that there is a decision of the Supreme Council to shorten the procedure for the consideration of Bill 1416, and we request the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko, to immediately submit this bill for consideration by the Supreme Council in a second reading. With regard to the bill to increase payments to the victims of juveniles in Nazi camps, we believe that this law must be adopted. And especially cynical is the refusal of the Party of Regions to vote and consider this law before the 65th anniversary of Victory in the Great Homeland War. It is totally unworthy of the people's defenses, rather than thanking these people who have spent the best years of their lives protecting the Fatherland, including in German concentration camps, we. A party of regions refuses to vote in favour of this law to consider it and to support it. And what numbers are we talking about? In Ukraine, give them health, or health, to 7,000 people who were underage prisoners in concentration camps. That's an extra thing to do when we adopt the law, it's going to be 14 million dollars per year of extra expenses. But these are tears, our oligarchs, our yachts, our airplanes, and our cars are more expensive than additional expenses are required from the state for the juvenile prisoners of Nazi camps. That is why I think that this law must be voted on, not just in the first reading, but in general today, in order to put it into the 2010 budget. And we still have to mention the victims of Stalin’s camps, the juvenile prisoners of Stalin’s camps, who also spent the better years of their lives in concentration camps. What difference does it make between a concentration camp, a fascist one, or a Stalinese one? Both, as they say, were both there for freedom and for their views, and for being enslaved by the same fascist regime, one by the Stalin regime. Therefore, this law must be passed in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u193	Yuri Baldiriev, faction of the Party of the Regions. Jaroslav Suhi, you have the right to speak for six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u194	In view of the opposition’s first attempt today to demonstrate my abilities, I especially, do not get angry, I have been in opposition, I am addressing you. Try to avoid further mentoring distortions, especially if you have not read the bill. I remind you, Vladimir Alexanderovich, don't interrupt me! I didn't interrupt you, I'll speak in English, and I'll speak in English, and I'll speak in English. So the bill was written in 2008, you remember. On May 19, 2009, a year later, according to the Ukrainian Pension Fund, the Constitutional Court made the following statement. This is a gap in the basic law on the social protection of victims of national persecution, and this is a gap, as a result of the failure of the law on compulsory State social pension insurance. If the honourable colleagues who are sitting in the back were walking and our committee was more frequent, we were looking at this bill, we're not basic, we're based on the committee of honorary colleague Suškević and Peter Stepanovich was speaking, we've expressed our point of view. Listen to me now. 30 percent, and the submission of the Pension Fund involved the following, what is the minimum retirement age, and how can it be resolved, and how can it be applied to the following payments, including, remember, children of war, remember, pension payments? And how can 30 percent of the victims of Nazi persecution be considered? The Constitutional Court has determined that this gap is to be filled by the legislator, and the law was written before that. Now listen carefully to what you are proposing and what you are calling for in the session hall. The author suggests that, in the revisions to the article, we apply a mechanism whereby the benefits of former juveniles are increased to 25 percent of the subsistence minimum. The number, please remember, is 622 bracelets. And if you and I implement and do what the Constitutional Court has told us, a 30 - percent allowance, a concentration camp prisoner, ghettos, other places of forced detention, I quote, according to the Constitutional Court’s decision, 150 percent minimum pension at age, from 498 to 1.5 - 747. Therefore, the Committee on Social Policy and Labour asked Scherbán to withdraw its bill to the Committee of Peter Stepanovich with such a proposal, with such a proposal, to prepare amendments to article 5 of the Law on mandatory State Pension Insurance by deleting the sentence, “the action of other legal acts may extend to these relations only in the cases provided for by this law, or in part that does not conflict with this law.” So this bill, if we vote for it right now, makes the artificial state of social security worse forever, life support, instead of retirement or pension payments more than 100 dollars. Jura, I understand you're uncomfortable right now. You're out here on the rostrum. That's the kind of thing you've been talking about with this regular talker, a shoe specialist. But keep in mind, please read the bill. You don't have time to read the bill, but at least read the comments to this bill, you'll understand what's going on. The Law was written in 2008. On May 19, 2009, the Constitutional Court obliged us to establish a clear standard, and we ask the committee of profile to launch this rule into the session room so that we can vote for it. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u195	Now. So let's finish the question, and then there'll be a line. Dear National Deputies! We finished the discussion. One minute. The draft law was completed with registration number 2057. On this issue there is Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Sergey Ivanovich and Rybak Sergey Alexanderovich Deputy Minister of Finance. Please state your point of view on this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u196	I want to say that if we apply the option that we have the total number of people to which this law is going to be extended, it's 9,000 200. Po. Yes, all in Ukraine, we have a schedule for each region, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea - 217, 195 - Winnitzka, Volinska - 32, and so on. Total number 6 thousand 444. In fact, the act of the law is spread over four, more faithfully, four articles. These are juvenile prisoners who have not reached their age of 14 years, juvenile prisoners who have reached adulthood, wives of those who have died, and so forth. This is article 6.1, 6.4 of this law. In line with the article on living at a minimum of 695 dollars, which is effective on January 01, 2010, the first group with only 70 people are receiving an allowance of 347 and a half dollars. The second group of 278, the third group of invalids, the first group, the third group, the first group, the third group, the third group, the first group, the third group, the third group, the third group, the third group, the third group, the third group, the sum of the thousands, the sum of the [[These are related to article 6.2.]] The individuals referred to in article 6.1 of this legislation are 22,217, and the increase is 173,75 dollars, and so on. 6. 3, which relates to article 6.3, 69,5 of the total amount of 3 million there is 36 dollars. The total, I would like to emphasize again, is 9 million 247. These are our previous calculations. All of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u197	Honorable National MPs, consideration. Now I see, Yuri Prokopchuk, I see there's a right to a replica. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? A proposal is put to the vote by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Victims of Nazi Persecution. [[on the age of juvenile prisoners and on the size of pension increases]] [[Registration number 2057]] Please vote. [[13:42:23]] For 229 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there are calculations here. If no one's denying it, I can only bet on it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Jaroslav Suhi spoke on this subject, respected colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, dear fellows, I can put it up. He just told me, I can put it to a vote. He's denying it. There are observations, fellow believers. I'm going to put to the vote the preparation for the second reading on a reduced procedure, please be sure. We need to hurry slowly in serious laws. [[13:43:16]] For 227 Decisions were made. Yeah, yeah, yeah, that's right. Replica, the right to a replica is given by Yuri Prokopchuk. Please note his last name.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u198	Yuri Prokopchuk, Timoshenko Yulia Block, Ravenshkina. Obviously, even this vote, where the Party of the Regions has hardly voted, even though the bill has been passed by a member of the Party of the Scherban Region, shows the real way in which all their promises are being fulfilled by representatives of today's authorities and this majority. This just shows up on any occasion, they won't vote to keep any promises they made. It's cynical. Especially with regard to those who, by the way, sat in concentration camps for crimes of crime! Shame on you!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u199	You've made your decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u200	Well, please. Give me the factions, please. Region Party – 1, Block of Timoshenko – 139, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 46, communists – 26, Block of Lithuania – 14, non-fractional – 1. Dear colleagues! Next bill. Please calm down. Registration number 2058. This is a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the use of the right to payment]] There is also a request by the author of the bill to withdraw it from consideration in view of the need to finalize the bill and introduce a more comprehensive document. I'll put this proposal to the vote. Please vote. Registration number 2058. Please vote. Well, to make a new document. [[13:45:19]] For 111 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on the bill for a reduced procedure. Please vote. Well, you asked for a summary. I got it. Well, please. [[13:45:41]] For-142 The decision is not taken. I responded, by the way, to the proposal of the distinguished national MPs, Oleg Láška, who insisted on asking the question. [[B in m in s a l in]] Rapporteur – National Deputy of Ukraine Szcerbán Artem Volodymyrovich, co-rapporteur – First Deputy Head of the Committee for Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Cibenko Petar Stepanovich. Is there a reporter? None. Please, Peter Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u201	I'm going to count it from my salary.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u202	I suggested because there's a lot of social laws. That's why I proposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u203	Yes, why don't you vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u204	Well, well.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u205	Thank you. Dear, honourable Head, honourable colleagues, the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons at its meeting on April 2, 2008, reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine, registered number 2058, submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the National MP of Ukraine. [[on the use of the right to payment]] The bill proposes to improve the mechanism for obtaining former juvenile prisoners of concentration camps, ghettos and other cities of forced detention, recognized by the disabled third group, persons who accompany the disabled first group, victims of Nazi persecution and citizens who are assigned to the second category affected by the Chernobyl disaster, the right to travel to and back to any point of Ukraine by car or by air, or by rail, or by water by choice of person, a 50 per cent reduction in the cost of travel – one year, once a year, or a free trip once every two years. In doing so, it should be noted that the right to choose is reserved for other categories of citizens who are entitled to appropriate benefits. The adoption of the Act will strengthen the social protection of victims of Nazi persecution and of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster by the harmonization of approaches to social protection of different categories of citizens. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues on the basis of its consideration of the bill decided that the bill could be adopted under the terms of validity not earlier than 1 January of the following year, since the additional need for the State budget to reduce the cost of travelling citizens of the listed categories is 47.8 million dollars per year. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster is recommended to support the amendment to article 21 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the draft law can be adopted as a basis as a result of the first reading. In view of the above, the Committee proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to accept the project as a basis. Once again, honourable colleagues, since the drafter of the bill has not been and has not had his report, I want to clarify one situation so that the honourable colleagues understand what this is about. So let's say, once again, in an analogy with the Law on the Status of War Veterans, the Guarantee of Social Protection, this law is introduced. She predicts that those Ukrainian citizens who have the right to pay a 50-percent discount once a year can benefit from this discount once every 2 years with a 100-percent discount. So it's a human choice. Or it travels back and forth one time a year to a suitable point in Ukraine with a 50 percent reduction, or by choosing a person 1 times a 2 year, but with a 100 percent benefit back and forth. So, actually, the point is that we give the right to choose the person who has that kind of benefit. In this case, I think this document, at least the committee, has decided to take it as a basis. Because if we're talking about, let's say, acceptance as a whole, there's a difference of 50 million dollars to be searched for. The committee therefore proposes that the draft law be adopted on the basis of a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u206	Thank you. Dear colleagues! If you have any questions about Peter Stepanovich, please sign up. May I have your name on the board, Vladimir Karpuk?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u207	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear Peter Stepanovich! You are the head of the Committee of Veterans of Ukraine and have worked for many years in the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, and you see that very often the position of voting under laws that are for veterans' benefits, to increase pensions, the social benefits are linked to the place that these political forces occupy, whether it is in opposition, or whether they are in coalition and form the majority. And so you, as a member of the majority coalition, as you appreciate these votes both under the previous law and under the possible law, when words declare the fight against poverty, the provision of benefits to war veterans, to veterans of labor, and in fact when you have to find these millions, it's about money that takes budget and these costs for veterans are not enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u208	Thank you. In this case, I represent the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons on this podium, and I'm not speaking on behalf of the faction, so I'm going to avoid any political evaluation, I'm going to point out once again that we're going to unify legislation in part of the social protection of the most disadvantaged population, and in this case we're going to introduce similar rules to the law on victims of Nazi persecution, the law on the protection of citizens who have suffered from the Chernobyl disaster and the law on the status of war veterans and guarantees of social protection. So the committee has decided to support this document, the draft law in the first reading we believe that it will be adopted in the first reading. As long as it is generally accepted, I think the issue of the adoption of the State Budget Act will be raised next year and this issue will be settled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u209	John the Rabbit, the faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense."
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u210	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Peter Stepanovich, how do you feel about extending all these standards to juvenile prisoners of the Stalinese Communist concentration camps. Because we know that I know one of Bunya's citizens from Borovav, who was probably 16 years old, who was 25 years old, and a man spent his young years in a concentration camp. So she didn't know what happy childhood was, she didn't know what happiness is, whether it was a Nazi concentration camp or she was in this concentration camp, that's the first question. And the second question, as you're looking at it, is the proposal of our committee, the Committee on Economic Policy, to extend these benefits to the victims of the Chernobyl disaster. You know that humans have similarly put health into our future, for our destiny.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u211	Thank you for asking. I'll start with the last one, this law extends to certain categories of this law. It's spreading because it's making changes not only to the Nazi Persecution Act, but to a number of Ukrainian laws, that's the first. And secondly, Ivan Alexandrovich, I am prepared to support with you what you have proposed, but with the social protection of the victims of UN-OPA, then it will be right and just.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u212	Pavlovski National Deputy, Timoshenko Yulia Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u213	Dear Peter Stepanovich, the bill is really very simple and requires not so much money, only 50 million dollars, compared to the cost of maintaining the President, his secretariat. I don't understand what the Party of Regions doesn't want to support, especially since Yanukovich and the Party of Regions promised a swift rise in social standards before the elections. And even Janukovic promised to adopt the first decree, it's been more than a month, and the decree doesn't have and translate all the problems, I see this trend, on the shoulders of the more disadvantaged pensioners, the disabled, the students, the budgeters. But you have to accept it in general, because the law is very simple. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u214	Thank you. I want to make it clear that President Yanukovic's first decree was really about strengthening social protection, you just didn't take care of it. And with regard to this bill, your honors, I will report the decision of the committee. The committee decided to support the draft law in its first reading. So there's nothing else I can offer myself in this case. What is more, the question, let's say, really has to be calculated for the future. What needs to be accepted in the first reading does not give me any doubts. But with regard to adoption in the second reading, there may be suggestions from the national deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u215	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukrainian People's Self-Defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u216	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Dear Peter Stepanovich! Now there's a figure that's supposed to be worth 50 million dollars. I doubt that. And I would like to, if you're confirming this figure of 50 million, to say what it's made of, because in fact, people have the right now to use a 50 percent discount to go once a year "over and back" -- once a year. Now we're saying that it's free once every two years. So what's the cost? No cost is going to be less than the other way around. Now look on. We write here that only underage prisoners of concentration camps, we are now talking about raising the status of underage prisoners, that is, under 18 years of age. Do you consider it necessary to extend the scope of this law? What's more, not so many of these people are, I mean.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u217	Thank you for asking. Dear Yuri Anatolyovich! If you trust your colleagues who worked as a member of the previous government, that's their estimate of 50 million. So this is about the calculations that were made when an expert evaluation was made. I can't, I'm not an expert in this field, I can't, I've referred to the calculations that the Cabinet of Ministers did, you know the committee accepted on the first reading of this document and think that if there were such proposals for extending the circle of persons between the first and second readings, the committee would definitely consider them. [[on the possibility of expanding the circle of persons]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u218	Thank you, Peter Stepanovich. Sit down, time's up. Dear colleagues, in the evening session we will discuss this bill. It's 2:00. 30 will be held by the Conciliation Board, with the participation of the factions’ leaders and the head of the Committee on State Building, local self - government. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m0.u219	So we need to talk about him, and now it's 14 hours. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break until 4:00 p.m., 4:00 p.m., we'll continue the discussion of Bill 2058.
