ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! Good morning to you and invited guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:46]] Cards were registered in the 398 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Let us welcome our colleague, wishing him good health. [[Applause]] Allow me to provide you with information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary on 20 January 2010. 14 questions on the agenda have been considered: 8 laws have been passed; 1 bill has been returned to the committee for re-reading; 3 bills have been rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, you have our schedule for today. There's only one suggestion that we start by looking at issues that relate to second reading in order to see what results we have on the way out, which is to change the schedule of sessions a little bit. Is there no objection? None. At the same time, honourable national MPs, two factions -- the faction of the Party of the Regions and the Communist Party of Ukraine -- are calling for a recess to be announced. Do you have a statement not to take a break? Who will make the statement? Mikhailo Papiev, please, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u2	Thank you. Honorable National MPs of Ukraine, distinguished voters! The two factions -- the faction of the Party of the Regions and the faction of the Communists -- today, they have filed an application for a recess today to state that the Government of Ukraine continues to defiantly fail to comply with the Ukrainian law on raising social standards. I remind you, on January 15, 2009, the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine protested the Government's Decree No. 1375 of December 23, 2009. By this decree, Timoshenko unlawfully foresaw and prescribed in violation of Ukraine’s Constitution and laws that pensions should be paid to Ukrainian pensioners in January 2010. Ukraine's Attorney General's Office has confirmed that the government's ruling is illegal, so we demand that the Government of Timoshenko make pensions for all Ukrainian pensioners, based on the size of the living minimum for disabled persons – 695 dollars. Today, as a result of the government’s outright criminal activity, every pensioner receives between 150 and 300 dollars. Our requirement also applies to children of war because the law on social protection of children of war establishes an allowance for this category of citizens of 30 percent of the minimum pension. So if you take a minimum pension of 695 dollars, every child in the war of January 1st should get an extra 208 dollars 50 dollars, not 49 dollars 80 dollars, as the government continues to do. The same is true of those involved in the war. Ukraine’s law on the establishment of a subsistence minimum and minimum wage applies to 14.5 million Ukrainian citizens. The government is obliged to pay people’s pensions on the scale prescribed by law. This law of Ukraine also applies to social assistance, such as social care for a child under the age of three. It also has to be paid on a minimum of 755 bracelets for children under 6 years of age. This law also applies to budget workers. January’s salary for the current year should be charged to all budget workers on the basis of the minimum wage of 869 dollars. We require the government to comply immediately with the Ukrainian Law on the establishment of a minimum of living and minimum wage and by February 1st to pay back the money stolen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, a statement has been made. I ask the secretariat to prepare an appropriate letter-call to the government on the issues raised in the statement made by our colleague, National Deputy of Ukraine, Mikhailo Papiev. Dear colleagues, the draft Law on the Complementation of Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine is under review. [[prohibiting financial institutions from unilaterally increasing interest and other payments provided for in the credit agreement]] Yes, Klimenko Alexander Ivanovich. Please, Alexander Ivanovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, the point is, if the committee has not considered but has been commissioned by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine cannot wait for the committee to come together. Let's make our decision. That's my offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u4	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I want to confirm that, indeed, on our Committee on Finance and Banking, this bill has not been considered. Instead, he was accepted in the first reading. It only applies to one – to prohibit banks from raising interest rates unilaterally. And of course, that way, if we take it as a base in the second reading, we're going to protect the investors themselves. Instead, a number of suggestions came to the committee — from the national deputy of Arjevetina, from the national deputy of Teryochin, and from the national deputy of Kruc. I'd like the room to identify itself with the arguments of these people's deputies and we'd like to make one consolidated decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, you know that we have considered this law in 1801.2010 and have instructed the committee to prepare it for the second reading on Thursday. The committee hasn't considered it. Thus we have every reason to vote on the Supreme Council of Ukraine for this law. Please have a seat. Stanislaw Arzhevtin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u6	First of all, the bill goes to the rapporteur, not the banks, all the financial institutions of Ukraine. This is one time. It's different. Indeed, only yesterday, in the afternoon, did the committee receive proposals from the national deputies. In fact, they all apply to the removal of those coalitions that are about to arise, right-wing colonies, around civil law. And if we take it in this form, that is, if we accept paragraph three, then, more faithfully, part three of Chapter I and part two, which provides for the reverse operation of the laws, we're going to be this legal colossal and this bill is not going to work. So either I suggest you don't consider it and let the committee settle these issues, or in order to move forward, we just have to rule out part three of Chapters I and part two of the final positions where it's about that the law has reverse action.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, the position is that the committee is virtually not sitting. And I have to say, unfortunately, that the committee is practically not considering laws for clear reasons. Because people are part of the interest in keeping these laws out. And dozens of examples can be cited when laws lie for months when they are not considered inconveniently. And they're talking about colossals again. If we are so concerned, dear colleagues, by protecting people, let us then work day and night and make decisions. Why didn’t you consider these decisions? Don't you want to look at them? Let's do it this way. Gregory Smythew. There has been a decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and a decision has to be made, and we will be determined on the decision-making process.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u8	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I fully agree with your point of view. Not enough, I'd like to draw the attention of the people's deputies, that given by Arzvitin, he's constantly lobbying the banking system, which is deblooding our economy, which is bullying investors, who are bullying entrepreneurs, because banks are making what they want. And they're just like everyone else. Why we now regulate bread, prices, and why banks allow anything. So I can see directly that in the actions of Arjevetina in the sense that he, including not gathering a committee, is blocking some of the wise decisions of the Supreme Council with his speeches. So I propose that this law be passed in general today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u9	Replica by Stanislav Arzevtin
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u10	Thank you. Deputies! I would also like to emphasize, read the law concerning the banking system, we settled a year ago, and banks are banned today in a unilateral order to change. This bill amends other financial institutions to prohibit my support and correctness. But I'm talking about "The End of Positions," please tell the MPs, when we are now adopting a law that gives us the right to extend to all the other agreements that have been accepted before, here are many lawyers, can we adopt such a bill? That's why I'm proposing, I'm talking to lawyers, read "The End of Positions," and you'll realize that we don't have the right to accept it in that way.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u11	Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u12	Yuri Carmazin. The Party of Motherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! It's quite obvious that we've been able to, we've given you and me a chance to rob the population, the National Bank and the banks, now credit unions. Thank God for this law, and I thank the national deputy Klimenko for introducing this law. The Colosseum — What Is It? It is written that this law takes effect as of January 1, 2010. The first January has already passed, we have to delete it and write "from the moment of publication" and put a dot. Everything, everything, Vladimir Mikhailovich, and everything with a voice. Such a proposal was made during the consideration, but what the committee blocks does not mean that we are powerless. If we write "this law takes effect from the time of publication," I ask that this proposal be put to the vote as an amendment, and that the text of "The Final Provisions" continue to be completely normal. We're going to protect our people from using credit unions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u13	Thus it is written here, Yuri Anatolyevich, that law takes effect from the day it was published. Please, Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u14	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, pay attention, for some of the speakers discuss the very wrong law. This is the third position of our agenda, not our first position. We're discussing a bill that we've talked about once and for all about, what I'm really doing here is supporting my fellow Smither, that we need to get out of the business of 20 million investors, not the owners of 180 banks and some other financial institutions. So, of course, it's very bad that the profile committee didn't respond to the proposal, not just to the proposal, but to the Supreme Council's decision not to prepare the bill, as it should, for the second reading. But if that's not the case, and there's a decision of the Supreme Council, so, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I suggest, let's now put it in an editorial that was adopted in the first reading, to enact the law as a whole without any amendments made to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u15	Thank you. Honourable National Deputies are put to the vote by the second reading and, in general, by the law of the Ukrainian Act on Supplements to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine. [[prohibiting financial institutions from unilaterally increasing interest and other payments provided for in the credit agreement]] [[Registration number 3524-1]] Please vote. [[10:14:15]] For 370. The law is passed. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the production and circulation of ethyl alcohol, cognac and fruit, alcoholic beverages and tobacco products is under review. [[on the reduction of consumption and the sale of low-alcoholic beverages]] [[Registration number 1171]] Reporter to the head of the Subcommittee, the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinnik. Dear colleagues, there is no reporter. At the same time, there is a committee decision, and I will read it to you: “The Committee proposes that the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine be returned from tax and customs policy for processing and re-reading.” At the same time, there is a call from the Ukrainian branch company to produce beer, nonalcoholic beverages, and mineral water. They are requesting more attention from the Supreme Council of Ukraine and redrafting this bill in order for it to work in the interests of the country, in the interests of the people. That's the position. Please, Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u16	Dear colleagues! I am now on behalf of the authors and the vast majority of Ukrainian citizens who have been addressing this problem to the Supreme Council for the past ten years. I mean, the law does not violate any rights and protects our rights -- Ukrainian citizens, Ukrainian society -- so that we don't get to what we've been leading on alcoholism in the world. We've settled a very delicate path, once again, along with the brewers and other alcoholic companies -- a very delicate way. To at least say in 2010 that vodka is mixed with tomato juice is an alcoholic drink. Because we're such a delicate country that we're still, if we add 10 grams of tomato juice to the vodka, we say it's lemonade. So as co-author of this law, I insist that we vote both on the position of the committee and on the position of the authors. So once again, there's no radical version of, let's say, in some of the forbidden things, we went to a super compromise about this, for example, we banned on the beaches, during concerts to ban the sale and drink of alcoholic beverages. The committee suggested that local authorities decide where to limit the decision. It's a liberal approach. But even though this approach, let us make it impossible to do so. So I propose to vote on the authors' position, to accept it in the second reading and in general. And accordingly, the position of the committees -- how the session room will be determined. Once again, we've been testing it today, doing a few sociological studies, and so far, about 80 percent of Ukrainian citizens are asking us to do everything we can to prevent the nation from being merged and to limit the drinking of alcoholic and malnourished drinks by our children. Because, by the way, we're the first to ban 18 years old. Today, when you are 12 years old, you can go in and buy a soft drink. So there's nothing radical about it. I would insist that we vote in the second and in general, and the committee proposal. And the session room needs to be defined.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u17	Jaroslav Jojik, please microphone. And now we're going to go according to the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u18	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People’s Party. Dear colleagues, I have to say that, over the entire period of the discussion of the draft legislation relating to the regulation of the circulation of alcoholic, low-alcoholic beverages and beer, no one has ever conducted a truly qualified discussion of this issue and there are no such facts that after the consumption of beer, Ukraine is one of the outsiders of this process per capita. And it's just after drinking solid alcohol that we're in front of all of Europe. And right now we have a way of further increasing consumption of strong alcohol per capita. So I would like to ask the MPs to support the initiative of committee representatives to transfer this bill to read again.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u19	Replica, Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, the only thing I want to say is that the law doesn't stand out, we don't make it special that good people who drink vodka or good beer. So all restrictions apply to all kinds of alcoholic beverages. Prohibitions regarding both strong drinks and soft drinks. Because you know, it can't be that you're doing a little bad thing for a little bit or a lot, and it's a bad thing, and it's a bad thing. So I want to make up for this myth that we're protecting strong drinks, and we're destroying beer here on equal terms. So I don't think we can single out one category or another, and I'm going to offer to support it in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u21	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, I will put to the vote in this order: first, on the adoption of the second reading and generally as a law; and in the event of non-support, on the direction of re-reading. Is the offer understood? So please be careful. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on second reading and in general as a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the production and circulation of ethyl, horse and fruit, alcoholic beverages and tobacco products. [[on the reduction of consumption and the sale of low-alcoholic beverages]] [[Registration number 1171]] [[10:21:05]] For 359 The law is passed. A draft Act amending certain codes of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on common ownership of land]] [[Registration number 2697]] Aah! Dear colleagues, I'm sorry. Two factions: the Faction of Yulia Timoshenko and the faction of Our People's Self-Defense have called for a recess under the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules. If there's a statement, please, Andrew School for three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u22	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I would like to draw the attention of the distinguished radio and television audiences, fellow national MPs, to the fact that, in principle, we can discuss a lot of issues in the Supreme Council, a lot of bills that we can adopt, but we all understand that the most important situation that will unfold in Ukraine in the near future is elections. And, of course, it's unfortunate that the Supreme Council is not prepared to supplement the Presidential Elections Act with the necessary remedies to make it impossible for me to stress, to make it impossible to falsify. We have repeatedly taken the initiative, but again, unfortunately, the Party of Regions is confidently and persistently blocking this process. Because we're counting on those who hope to win the most, I take it, they want to win the fair fight, they're offering unfair rules. But nevertheless, despite this, we want to point out that one who defends the possibility of forging elections is not confident of his own victory. And I want this society to understand clearly. The question is, If you are so sure, why are you preparing for mass forgery? What if you're so sure of your victory? This speaks of uncertainty. So I want to emphasize and I want to address you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, on another issue. We have proposed that a decision be put to the discussion and adoption of a decision appropriate to the interim parliamentary commission of inquiry on “Migirya”. Because we demand that today’s meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine be placed in the order of this particular decree. Our faction is not surprised by the position of the Party of Regions, which is so fiercely opposed to the creation of the TSC. It is obvious to all: Viktor Janukovic stole the Interigry, and from the faction of the Party of Regions instead of participating in the TSK and, at the very least, conducting a comprehensive study and research and investigation on this issue, it is blocking the consideration of this issue. But the people of Ukraine have a right to know that Viktor Janukovic has disposed of his thieving past or has simply increased the scale. So our faction requires, insistently, that we create a committee of MPs and give answers in strict terms. And I'm, by the way, convinced that the most interesting thing about this is the faction of the Party of the Regions to create such a temporary committee of inquiry. Because you want to take all the charges out of you, let's do it. Let's find out to the state over 140 hectares of land, can we build a golf course in the church and build a tennis court on the cemetery?Oh, my God! Let's get this straight and talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? I would ask that the decisions of the committee on this matter be made so that decisions can be made. And as for the second round of presidential elections, the honourable national MPs, I think everyone already knows everything because they said they thought of Yanukovich, and the President said he thought of the Prime Minister. So I think we need to give people a chance to sort things out. I'd like to ask you, dear colleagues, to the extent possible, not to involve the Supreme Council in these squabbles, because we're still going to need it to make decisions that will be extremely sensitive. Andrew Kozemyakin, a replica, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, Mr. Vladimir Mikhailovich, we do not want to involve our colleagues and the entire Supreme Council in the divisive process, but you remember that on Tuesday, suddenly, you asked questions about the release of Mr. Pisarenko's CTC member and said that the President would now bring another person away from your political power. At some point, you and I, the President, in the presence of his representative, have once again fooled us. That's the first one. And the others. Vladimir Mikhailovich, on the Conciliation Council, you said clearly under the transcript that you would ask this question, if there was a report, from the committee. Mr. Ephraim is missing. I think it's done specifically. There's Mr. Sas. Please give him your word, and he will explain to you the situation in which this decision is being considered in the committee. And I'm asking you to ask this question for consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, I need no explanation from members of the committee and representatives of the distinguished national deputies. I need a decision from the committee. This is the first time. Second of all, one minute. Dear colleagues, second. Dear colleagues, one more moment. Well, let's not create precedents of confrontation. We have decided on the Conciliation Council: on the demand of the BUT faction, we will also put the faction "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" on the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending the Law "On Elections of the President of Ukraine". And at the same time, there was a question from the Party of Regions about a member of the CBC. Changing the appointment of a member of the CLTC, like other personnel matters, does not require the inclusion of a member of the CLTC in the agenda. That's the order in which it was put. I confirm once again that the President of Ukraine has promised that at 12 o'clock there will be a submission. No information available. There is now a trial for failure by the President of Ukraine to comply with the relevant law because the President said he would still think. But he can only think within the limits of factions' decisions and the submission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's candidature. If there is no such submission today, it is obvious that this issue will have to be brought to justice. And the fact that words in politics don't matter, well, you understand that very well, dear colleagues. So, please, the committee's decision. A draft Law on Amendments to Certain Codes of Ukraine (for joint ownership on earth) is being announced for consideration. The reporter is Roman Volodymyrovich Tjak. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, then let me be a reporter. Yes, calm down, dear fellows. We can't wait until the MP gets here. He's supposed to be in the workplace. Yes, the law was amended. Please change number 1 Yuri Carmazin. Yuri Anatolyevich, are you insisting on this amendment? Are you insisting? No, it doesn't. A microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u26	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I propose part 2 of article 86 in a new edition: “The subjects of common property rights to land may be citizens of Ukraine, legal persons who are residents of Ukraine, who are citizens of Ukraine, who do not have dual citizenship of the territorial states. [[Comma]] Communities’. So this is different from what we were offered in the first reading. I remind you that there are “legal persons” and that the founders of legal persons can be loved persons, including foreigners, non-residents. Therefore, my amendment is aimed at clarifying that it is legal persons who are residents of Ukraine who belong to Ukrainian citizens. Because it's a very simple scheme.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm putting to the vote Amendment No. 1 of Yuri Carmazin. Please vote. [[10:30:29]] For-83 Correction not supported. Amendment number 2. Pisarenko insists on it? No, it's not. Let's move on. Amendment number 9 Pisarenka. Is he insisting? No, it's not. Valerius Baranov, Amendment 11. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Amendment 13, Baranov. Are you insisting? No, it's not. Amendment 17, Baranov. Don't insist. Amendment 21. Don't insist. All other amendments are included. The committee proposes to accept it as a law in the second reading and in general. Is there no objection? I am voting on the proposal of a second reading committee and, in general, as a law, the draft Act amending certain codes of Ukraine. [[on common ownership of land]] [[Registration number 2697]] Please vote. [[10:31:46]] For-42 The decision is not taken. I propose to vote the next proposal to re-read the draft Law 2697. [[government]] [[10:32:11]] For-142 The decision is not taken. The law is rejected. A draft Law amending article 176 of the Ukrainian Code of Land is being introduced. Registration number 3038, second reading. Who from the Agrarian Policy Committee will report? Is there a committee representative? So let's move on to the law. Yuri Carmazin, second amendment. Please, it's Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u28	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, it's a good thing that we rejected the bill in that paper right now on the ground, because without the first amendment that opened the way for foreign companies to buy Ukrainian land, it lost all meaning. With regard to this law, I propose a part of the first article of the 176th Earth Code to be drafted as follows: “According to the administrative and territorial formations of the village, villages, cities are certified by the State Act of Ukraine, the form and order of extradition of which is established by the Supreme Council of Ukraine.” It was suggested that the first reading should read “provided by a State Act”. Who and how he creates it is nothing. So this should be determined exclusively by the Supreme Council, with us. And it's clearly written right now. I'm asking, regardless of faction, to support this amendment, because it's apolitical, it's for the state, it's for the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u29	Amendment number two, Yuri Carmazin, shall be put to the vote. Please vote. [[10:34:07]] For 171 No correction supported. Amendment number 4, Anatolia Seminoga. Are you insisting on her? No, I can't see. Amendment number 5, Pisarenko. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Amendment 9, Yuri Carmazin. Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin’s microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u30	Yuri Carmazin. This amendment, number 9, is completely consistent with that amendment, which, unfortunately, has not been able to vote on many of the deputies. I am grateful to the deputies and other factions who supported the second amendment. I think this is a proposal: delete part six of article 176, it says here that the form on the border, the state act is established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I repeat, and I emphasize that I believe that this document should be decided here in the Supreme Council, what this document will be and what it will be. Ladies and gentlemen, we have no right to renounce the rights conferred upon us by the Constitution. We have to realize this right. So once again, I'm asking the 171 people and others, please look back, it's about defining and clarifying the role of the Supreme Council in this process, in the implementation of the Constitution. The amendment is completely apolitical, please vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u31	Amendment 9 of Yuri Karmazin shall be put to the vote, please. [[10:35:50]] For 224 [[B in m in s a l in]] I am betting on the vote to return to amendment number nine, Yuri Carmazin. [[10:36:12]] For 281 Correction accepted. [[B in m in s a l in]] Amendment number ten. [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh, you're back? Excuse me. I now vote in favour of Amendment No. 9, Yuri Karmazin. Please vote. [[10:36:39]] For 282 The decision is supported. More specifically, the amendment is supported. All of them. [[B in m in s a l in]] Now, one minute. Now, one minute. In view of the honourable colleagues that we voted in favour of amendment nine, we need to go back to amendment number two to make sense. So I'm voting on the motion to return to amendment number two. Please vote. So the law will not be passed. That's not how I see it. [[10:37:17]] For 118 Mikhail Vasilovich, it doesn't make any sense. We voted in favour of the ninth amendment. If we have voted in favour of nine, we must go back to the second. Well, I'm re-voting the motion to return to Amendment 2. Well, let's look for some understanding. [[B in m in s a l in]] Come on, you respectable fellows! Well, let's now put other questions to the vote. [[10:37:56]] For 104 The decision is not taken. You don't want to. I now put to the vote a motion for acceptance in the second reading and generally as a bill of the bill. [[Registration number 3038]] Please vote. For adoption in second reading and in general as a law. [[10:38:29]] For-58 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on re-reading the draft law. [[Registration number 3038]] [[10:38:56]] For 221 The decision is not taken, the law is rejected. Once again, I'm talking to the people's deputies: if you're thinking of doing something worse, if you're giving up the government now, and this is a government bill, then you're going nowhere. I want to say once again, there will be no temptation to do anything. Either you work or you don't work. And stop fooling around! Adam Martinyuk. We're as angry as the children in the sandbox, and we're not going to vote! [[B in m in s a l in]] I've responded to everything. I want to say again, I've responded to everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u32	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I am grateful that the Supreme Council has acted wisely. We were considering laws that were designed to speed up the issue of land sales. You and I have recently made the right decision to impose moratoriums on the future sale of land and other issues. This is one moment. The other one. This law, which now wanted to settle the Cabinet of Ministers, was about what was being done now, but it was being done in a semi-legal way: at the expense of the State Budget, which is not legal, some people hand out state acts on pies. If you want to do a good job, don’t worry. That'll be absolutely right. Not at the expense of the State Budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u33	A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on waste management, registration number 2459, is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is a member of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster, Anatoly Volodymyrovich Tolstouchov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u34	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! We present to you the draft Ukrainian Waste Act on amending some Ukrainian legislation on waste management, which defines how to improve legislation in the field of waste management in Ukraine, especially the conduct of solid household wastes, taking into account the need to bring it into line with European practice and the European integration of Ukraine's environmental policy. The committee appreciates the active position of the Ukrainian national deputies and, in particular, the Chief Legal Authority for helping with the project. In total, there were more than 70 proposals, which are mostly included in the project. The project amends the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences in Part of Increasing Responsibility for Pollution of Agriculture and Other Lands, Violations of Waste Management Requirements and Violations of State Standards and Rules in the Field of Good Governance. [[Article 52]] [[Article 82]] [[Article 151]] With the aim of improving the waste management system and ensuring their separate collection, the Ukrainian Waste Act is complemented by a new article on waste management. [[Article 31]] Determining the mandate of a special authorized central authority on housing and utility issues in the field of waste management. [[Article 25]] It also clarified the powers of local government administrations and local self-government authorities in the field of waste management to article 20-21 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Government Administrations, article 26 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. Extended powers of the police in part of the control and maintenance of streets and instigating areas, article 10 of the Ukrainian Police Act. The Waste Act also improves the system of payment for waste disposal, establishes a clearer mechanism for detection and collection of non-equity wastes, and makes the law consistent with the Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary Movements of Dangerous Wastes. [[Article 39]] [[Article 12]] [[Article 34]] According to the proposals of the National Deputy Tereshuk, the issue of wastes of animal origin is addressed, taking into account the European practice of dealing with this category of waste. [[Article 35]] The draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on waste disposal was taken into account in the drafting of the bill. [[Registration number 4565]] The committee proposes the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Act “On Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on Waste Management” in second reading and in general as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u35	Dear National Deputies! All the amendments that have been taken into account and the three amendments made by the people’s representative, Tereshuk, are you insisting on them? No, it's not. So I'm betting. The Chief Legal Authority has called for this bill without any notice. I therefore put to the vote a proposal for a second-reading committee and, in general, a bill of the draft Act “On Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine in the Field of Waste Management”. [[Registration number 2459]] Please vote. [[10:45:06]] For 326 The law is passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u36	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, the only request to take into account that the bill has been in place for four months and is therefore usually proposed that it takes effect, not since January 1, as it was planned then, but since its publication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u37	So since the publication, it's been announced. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Ukrainian Natural and Command Fund is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 2747]] The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Ivan Alexanderovich Haretz.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u38	Honorable national MPs, natural-intelligence funds are an important component of the natural capital recovery that needs to be protected and developed. And natural capital today is a limiting factor, and that is why we need to act in a logical way. We need to invest in natural capital, and especially in the restorative part that provides us with a resource base of the nation. The bill improves the legislative basis for this kind of activity, and the proposals are also based on the operation of PPP objects, which has substantially changed since the adoption of the law on the natural-lawful fund of Ukraine. Let me remind you, honourable national deputies, that this was in 1993 and that only a few changes have been made to the law. In preparing the bill, 12 amendments were made to the committee’s second reading, ten of them included, one included in part, and one rejected. I'll stop at the negative number two. It was suggested that land use constraints be compensated no later than 6 months later. The Committee considers that the time limit for damages should be set in order to be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. These amendments are mainly technical in nature and contribute to a clearer technical and legal formulation of the relevant parts of the bill. The principal legal office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine called for the bill without notice. Therefore, I ask you to adopt the law in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u39	Dear National Deputies! All amendments are taken into account except for one national MP, Trofimenko. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. The committee proposes to accept it as a law in the second reading as a whole. The findings of the General Legal Office are unwarranted. I therefore put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and as a whole as a bill the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Natural and Commanding Fund of Ukraine. [[Registration number 2747]] Please vote. [[10:48:28]] For 333 The law is passed. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on hunting and hunting, protection, use and reproduction of the animal world is under consideration. [[Registration number 1154]] The rapporteur is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement, which is active in the work of Yuri Volodymyrovich Prokopchuk. Please, Yuri Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u40	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Bill No. 1154 proposed for you to amend some of the Ukrainian legislation on hunting and hunting, conservation and reproduction and use of the animal world, introduced by the Ukrainian national deputy, Mikola Chersun, and adopted on 2 June 2009 by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its first reading on the basis of 324 votes. The proposed draft Ukrainian Law proposes to amend the Criminal Code of Ukraine, the Code of Administrative Offences and Laws on Hunting and Hunting, and the animal world, which aim at improving the legislative base on fishing management, increasing the liability of users for hunting conditions, and foresees an increase in the fine for violating the rules of hunting in the sanctions articles: 85, 85-1, 88-1, 89, 91-2, 188-5 of the Code of Administrative Offences. [[Article 248]] With regard to citizens and officials on a threefold scale. The words “from 3 to 7, from 1 to 5, from 20 to 40 are replaced by the words“ from 9 to 21, from 3 to 15, from 60 to 120, respectively, and from 90 to 150. ” In the process of working for the participation of hunters in hunting and hunting, i.e. the representatives of the Democratic Republic of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Society of Fishermen and Fishermen, the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Legal Authority, and the national deputies of Ukraine, the authors of legislative proposals for the text of the bill. The Committee twice considered, on July 8, 2009, and on September 23, 2009, 122 amendments made by entities to the legislative initiative, including the following: 31 in whole and 20 in part and in editorial terms, aimed at correcting certain inadequacies in the text of the bill adopted in the first reading. These include changes to article 248 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, the Code of Administrative Offences and the introduction of certain articles of the draft to the Law on Hunting and Hunting in accordance with established practice. Technicians. Amendments and amendments that do not or do not meet the stated purpose of the object of regulation rejected by the committee. For example, this is the amendment number 1, 2, 29 and so on of the Ukrainian people's deputies, and I'm not going to count all of them. Thus, the amendments made by National MP Schenzeva, 116, regarding the introduction of article 36 of the Law on Hunting and Hunting in a new edition, which proposed a change in the direction of money.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u41	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u42	Because according to article 127 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, exclusively the State Budget Act defines any expenditure incurred by the State on the general public needs. So it's basically a committee, according to the Budget Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u43	Do you have an amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u44	The implementation of the bill will have an impact on the income part of the budget by increasing it. In view of what has been said, the committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt Bill 1154 in second reading and generally as a law. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, let's go to the repairs. Amendment number one. No, we're not coming, let's get to her. Amendment No. 1 Mikoli Tomenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, I am in a difficult situation because I have all three amendments, if you will allow me, to explain the first reason why it is related to 26 out of 27. In fact, this amendment is a response to the appeal of all the fishing organizations, because they come from the fact that, in fact, it is also a component of the animal world, and today, fishing is affected by the use of so-called electric bicycles, that is, by fishing with electrical elements. So I introduced a key amendment of 27 and related to it the first and 26, which reads as follows: “The same actions if they are done with the use of explosives, toxic substances of electric currents or other means of mass destruction of fish, animals, animals and so on.” Committee, I understand the logic of the committee that they believe that fishing is not to be settled here, I understand. That's why I asked, because we're still going to get to this ingredient, because here, too, all the administrative responsibility goes to the animal world. So I would ask for both 1, and 26, and 27 to support and we would support, and I'll tell you, I've studied the laws of Belarus, Russia and all the neighbouring states, all over the last two or three years have strictly banned and punished for using so-called electric vehicles. If we don't do it today, we're going to soon have all the waterholes left, because we're catching grandpas, who are the grandfathers who are fishing there with the dock, and big bosses are coming, and they're killing all the waterholes. So I'd like to ask my friends, 1, 26 and 27 to support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u47	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u48	These amendments, and I can only show them the thickness of one amendment here, you know, 122. We're going to be working on a bill until tonight. Thus, of course, every MP who has made amendments has the right to insist on taking them into account or rejecting them. So, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I think we need to put to the vote amendments to those who insist on their acceptance. I mean, in this case, the People's Deputy Tomenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u49	Okay. Alexander Lavrinovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, here's a case where there's obviously a certain segment that wasn't regulated by the bill approved in the first reading. But I don't think there's a person in this room who wants to support those who use explosives or electric currents for what's called fishing. So I would like to support the amendments of Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenka so that we can resolve this problem in deciding on the animal world.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u51	Honorable National MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u52	And I support myself, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u53	Vote number 1 of Mikoli Tomenka, please vote. [[10:56:07]] For 305 Correction supported. Now, honourable colleagues, I am voting on Amendment 26 of Mikli Tomenka. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u54	Please be supportive. [[10:56:29]] For 310 Correction supported. And Amendment 27 of the Mikoli Tomenka vote, please vote. [[10:56:48]] For 323 Correction supported. Amendment 40 Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u55	Yuri Carmazin. Dear national MPs, we have done very wisely to support these adjustments. I'm making an amendment that I'm also asking you to support. Part of the first article, proposed in the paper: “Inventory animals of natural will belong to natural resources of general importance”, states in its original version, such as: “Thinking animals of natural will or held under semi-voluntary conditions are part of the natural resources of state importance”. This will contribute to the preservation of animals. Because it's suggested, think about what's written, "or they're stuck in semi-free conditions" to rule out. Thus, it is suggested that the number of these animals be significantly reduced. So I suggest, please support this amendment and then the amendment 43, because it's an extremely large number of animals that, in the semi-arid conditions that are adapted to the population, are subject to hazelnuts and so on. Why would we destroy them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u56	Yuri Anatoliyovich, really, there are, they say, moments when animals are used to get licenses, they're shot. And of course, where there's natural selection, that's natural reproduction, which with the help of extra food and so on, that's one thing. But believe me, in Polissa, for example, in a number of northern areas, where Polissa is, there are those herds that come out of control today, causing enormous damage to agriculture and private agriculture. So they come out of the woods and start praying to all the towns there and so on. And the population sometimes turns to make an extra shot. Although in places where it is, as they say, does not exceed the total number of animals, this is what needs to be done accordingly. I agree with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u57	Dear colleagues. What? John the Rabbit. Your microphone? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u58	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. Ladies and gentlemen, I am asking you to support Yuri Carmazin's amendment. Because the question is that half-retention is not just a category. Imagine we're going to have motorbikes right now, imagine we have hunting farms. And all of these natural habitats, where the beast runs, will be narrowed down to very small quantities, containers. And one way or another, the relationship between animals and humans will change, and man will draw close to the animal. But if we remove this part of the animals from the general, we'll say, natural acquisition, we make a big mistake, we're not directing people there. So I think we need to accept the correction of Carmazin, and we need to see in advance what this might involve.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u59	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the national party, vote number 40 Yuri Karmazin. [[11:00:21]] For-147 Correction not supported. Amendment 43 Yuri Karmazin is voting. Take down the vote. Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u60	Dear National Deputies! Yuri Carmazin. I don't know why our great conductor, I don't want to call his name, showed him not to vote on part of the national MPs who want to preserve our area of living nature. In part five of article 3, I propose an editorial: “In the private property of legal, natural persons, there may be hunting animals removed from the natural environment in the established law-making order divorced in captivity, in semi-arid conditions or otherwise acquired by unbanned legislation” as follows: “In the private property of legal and natural persons, there may be individual hunting animals removed from the natural environment in the established law-making order divorced or otherwise acquired by unlawful legislation.” [[Underlining the word “certainly”]] Otherwise we're just going to say that they're all going to be in private property, and we have to say that this is.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u61	I'm going to announce the position of the committee, Yuri Anatoliyovich, I've agreed, and our faction voted in favour of your amendment, but this is actually the position of the committee where all the options and all the consequences of accepting a single amendment or any other standard were discussed. But I agree with you that it is necessary to accept it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, the vote is amended by 43, Yuri Carmazin. 43, Yuri Carmazin. [[11:02:29]] For-142 The decision is not taken. Next changes, let's go. Who insists on these amendments after 43rd? Don't name names. Yes, they don't. Then we'll fix Karmazin to watch Yuri Anatolyovich. 66th, please. 66th Amendment. Please, it's Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u63	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! The question, as you might think, may be political for someone, perhaps in the election of tigers this is a political question, but I suggest in paragraph (a), considering that there is almost no wild game in Ukraine, it is appropriate to impose a 15 - year ban on male and female goats, last year, deer, moose, mufflon and to exclude mention of them in article 19. [[European Flemish]] I remind you that in article 19 you can hunt them from August to January, and the goat from May 1 to December included. So we're going to beat them all up, and they're gone, and they're all walking! I don't know how much to find them.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u64	Dear Yuri Anatolyovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u65	Please vote!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u66	Dear colleagues! Dear Yuri Anatolyovich! The point is, I'm saying that every amendment by the committee has been considered. Today, the 15-year ban is a very large term. By the way, y. That's right. I agree that at least on the duck feather, on all the flight attendants that are really knocked out, and the drought has been and has led to a significant reduction in this particular category of game, it takes, at least, 2 years to stop the hunt. Don't forbid it! As far as deer are concerned, they're in state. I agree with you, too, but there are standards in individual farms that are higher than goats, and especially wild boars. That's why a total ban -- it's not going to lead to anything, it's only going to lead to an increase in poaching. 15 years, in my opinion, is a very big term.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u67	Honourable National MPs, amendment 66 of Jury Karmazin is put to the vote. [[11:05:05]] For-88 Correction not accepted. Let's move on. Amendment 91. Yuri Anatolyevich, do you insist on her? It's on page 35.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u68	That's the situation. Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, the users. I propose a part of the first article, which reads: “The users of hunting grounds ensure their order within two years of the date of making such arrangements for use”, to put it this way: “The users of hunting arrangements ensure the order of the hunting arrangements given to them in their baptism.” If they have already received such arrangements, let them put money there immediately, not we say we are. They got caught, and then two years later, they're supposed to put something in. You bought it, put it in now. Otherwise, you don't have to bitch. That's why you totally heard the repair.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u69	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u70	In the committee, on the other hand, everything was about law enforcement, including hunting and so forth. And I don't see any objections there from your amendment. Why was it rejected? Because this, let's say, is the very idea that it's going to be the reproduction of the animal world and the plant world itself. I mean, a man who. Or there's a group of people who take it, they're already planning on doing it in advance. In principle, I see no objection to your amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u71	Amendment 91 shall be put to the vote. Please vote. [[11:07:18]] For-73 [[B in m in s a l in]] Correction not accepted. The next amendment is 94. Yuri Anatolyevich, do you insist on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u72	Yuri Carmazin. Dear people's deputies, it's very bad what we've seen now. Rather, it is good to see who wants to buy and do nothing for two years. Let it stand there, then we can resell. And I suggested that they invest immediately if they buy things like that. The proposed part of the first article 29 for the purpose of protecting hunting grounds, the users of such arrangements form a Jewish service at least one eger per 12,000 hectares [12 thousand ha] of hunting grounds, of which no more than 5,000 hectares [five thousand ha] are forest ranges, to be placed in the current order. So for the purpose of protecting hunting grounds, users create an eger service at least one eger per 7,000 hectares of forest and 10,000 hectares of fields or wetlands of hunting grounds. Because we're increasing the load on eigers, we're increasing and that's not right. So I didn't understand the logic of the committee. Why him?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u73	Please make an offer, a committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u74	Your Honorable Yuri Anatoliyovich, the next amendment to the 95th is my amendment, the People's Deputy Prokopchuk, which, in fact, is similar to yours, not just for seven thousand, but for five thousand, for five thousand, where there would really be an increase in control. And that's what we have to do. But my amendment, I'm the reporter, is rejected. But I think the drafter of the bill is saying that we can count it, Mikola Haritonovich. Therefore, I ask that the Hall support the amendment, at least in the middle, of the People's Deputy Karmazin. If not, I will insist on accepting my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u75	I'm betting on the vote of 94th Yuri Carmazin. Please vote. [[11:09:31]] For a hundred and Correction not supported. The 95th Amendment of Yuri Prokopchuk. Please, Yuri Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u76	The amendment, in fact, is similar to that made by the national deputy Carmazin. The only difference is that not by 7,000 hectares, one eger, but by 5,000. So it's going to be the kind of control that can counteract both poachers and other illegal wildfires, which is going to increase the preservation of the animal world. Please support Amendment 95.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u77	Dear National Deputies! The vote is amended as number 9 by Yuri Prokopchuk. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u78	95th. [[11:10:29]] For-286 Correction accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u79	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u80	Let's keep up the good work. Amendment 101, Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin, do you insist on it? Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u81	Dear National Deputies! Yuri Carmazin. Part one of article 33: “The shooting and hunting of wolves, stray dogs and cats, grey ravens, forty, are carried out by hunters when hunting other species of hunting animals.” I suggest you put it in the correct order: “The shooting and hunting of wolves, stray dogs and cats, grey ravens, forty, are carried out by hunters with the permission of the user of hunting arrangements during hunting for other species of hunting animals.” Thus, the user, if necessary, can determine whether to grant this permission or not and how to compensate for these actions, either by a hunter or by a hunter. Why do I say that? Well, we're just shooting off all those 40s, shooting everyone else during other kinds of hunting, and all that, they won't be. Just for the sake of sports. So let's protect! Well, how's "Glory to God"? It's animals, it's an animal world, we're connected to them. These are our smaller brothers. What are you talking about? Well, I'm asking you to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u82	Yuri Anatolyevich, in principle. In principle, all of them, of course, as you say, are our smaller brothers. But what I'm trying to say is that today there are huge problems right now with stray dogs that collide in the room, which today, by the way, are destroying the rabbit's young, other animals. And in fact, if we forbid it, there is a question. I agree there, separate birds there, forty. Thank you. All right, thanks for convincing you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u83	Yuri Anatolyevich withdrew his amendment 101. The next amendment of Yuri Carmazin is 105th. Microphone, please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u84	105 amendment, honourable national deputies, is Yuri Carmazin again bothering you. The proposed part of the four articles 33 reads: “Acquiring wolves, foxes, dogs, stray dogs and cats, grey crows, forty, pears and jays belongs to the official duties of workers authorized to carry out the protection of hunting grounds, and is carried out without special permission during this period”. Now it is written: The acquisition of wolves, foxes, stray dogs, and cats, grey crows, 40ths, pears, and soybeans is part of the official duties of workers authorized to carry out the protection of hunting grounds, and is carried out in the presence of a special permit from the local authority, a special authorized central authority in the field of hunting and hunting during the period set out therein, taking into account the features defined in part five of this article. What's wrong? Normal principle, normal, article tested, it works.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u85	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u86	What I'm saying is that the position of the committee was to reject. But I want to say at all. I'm a hunter in one, I don't remember how many generations. And for me, for example, the words "getting stray dogs and cats" don't sound, I'd throw it out of this law at all. Only what is considered to be trophies, or hunting trophies, or something that bears an appropriate value can be obtained. But the committee suggested that the amendments should not be rejected, as it was prescribed and written by the skeleton, but in order not to break the entire law. Actually, your right to insist if I haven't convinced you this time.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u87	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 105 Yuri Karmazin. Please vote. [[11:14:43]] For-58 Correction not supported. Next amendment by Yuri Carmazin 110. Are you insisting on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u88	I don't insist on the 110th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u89	Thank you. Then the 112th, Yuri Anatolyovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u90	And I want to comment on 112. Dear National Deputies! Part six of article 33 is proposed for the extraction of hunting animals for scientific purposes, the transfer to new habitats, and the collection of birds’ eggs are carried out during the year, with the permission of a specially authorized central executive body in the voice of the protection of the environment, which is issued in its order, as follows: “The acquisition of hunting animals for scientific purposes, the transfer to new places of residence and the collection of birds’ eggs shall be carried out with the permission of a specially authorized central executive body in the field of environmental protection, which shall be issued within the time limit set out in this permit.” I mean, only when it's hot, I make it clear that only during this term is narrow when it's written in the license, not always as always, as it is now written. So I propose to improve the law substantially.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u91	Yuri Anatolyovich! Thank you. In principle, you're worried about saving because there must be a term, and please tell me, if we have, for example, scientific goals, that includes controlling flight, let's say other things, breeding birds, animals, including, we know about the problem of avian influenza, or not, that's what that means. And it's also a fox of other animals that control the presence of a freak, that is, if we define a specific period, then there's not a complete picture when we have to take this cut off and see what's going on in the animal world. Of these, the committee rejected the amendment, although of course you may insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, vote on Amendment 112, Yuri Carmazin. [[11:17:18]] For-53 Don't you insist? It's the 113th of its own. No, it's not. Let's move on then.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u93	It is here that a large number of amendments to the people's representative of Schenchev have been made.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u94	I understand he's not insisting on his amendments. If he insists, please. Yes, all other adjustments are included. Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u95	The committee's decision to support, taking into account the amendments that have been voted upon. The bill in second reading and in general. Please, colleagues, support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, the Chief Legal Authority has no comment on the draft law prepared for the second reading. The committee proposes to accept it as a law in the second reading and in general. I am voting on this proposal, namely, the adoption of the second reading as a whole as a bill of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on hunting and hunting, protection of use, reproduction of the animal world, taking into account those amendments that have received a positive decision in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Registration number 1154]] Please vote. [[11:18:53]] For 274 The law is passed. A draft Act amending the Criminal Enforcement Code of Ukraine on the protection of the rights of convicted persons in institutions for the execution of sentences is being announced for consideration. Reporter Yuri Volodymyrovich Prokopchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u97	The Honourable Chairman, the Honourable People's Deputies, the Committee on Legislative Security, prepared for consideration in the second reading of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Criminal Procedure and Enforcement Codes of Ukraine. Registration number 2151-d. I would like to remind you that the bill provides for amendments to the Ukrainian Criminal Enforcement Code with the aim of enhancing the protection of the rights of convicted persons in the penal institutions. The proposed changes are aimed at humanizing our criminal-executive system and implementing the rules of the European Convention on Fundamental Freedoms of People and Citizens in Domestic Law. And specifically on the amendments. In the process of working on the bill, it received 16 amendments and proposals from legal entities, 8 of which were fully taken into account and 8 amendments were rejected. Yes, the committee decided to reject amendments Nos. 3 and 4 made by the Ukrainian national deputy Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin and the reasons for the rejection are set out in the table. Rejected by the Committee of Amendments 8 and 10, since their pronoun can only be used in relation to a living creature, that is, if a clarification is made. The Committee also rejected amendments Nos. 12,13.14 by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Olijnik Svetoslav, proposing amendments to articles 138, 139 and 140 of the Criminal Enforcement Code. The committee took a decision to reject these amendments as non-sensical, since article 112 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, as proposed by the Committee, stipulates that all convicted persons have the right to receive shipments of bandits, transfer in unlimited quantities. [[This is page 7 of the table.]] Rejected by the committee and amendment No. 16 introduced by the Ukrainian national deputy Karmazin, which he proposes to present in a new edition of “The Final Position” of the law. According to the committee, the drafting of paragraph two of the law proposed by the committee is more successful. [[page 13 of the table]] After considering the bill at its meeting on June 24, 2009, the committee decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a second reading and as a whole as a law of Ukraine. The chief legal authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's apparatus is an unobserved bill. It's a rare case, by the way. Please support, Your Honor, because the adoption of the law will help create a positive image of Ukraine in the world and abroad, as well as improve the retention of those who are in places of deprivation of liberty. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u98	Dear colleagues who insist on the amendment, Yuri Anatolyevich, your 3rd and 4th amendments, do you insist on them?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u99	On the third.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u100	On the third? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u101	And then to the 4th. Dear National Deputies, George Carmazin. I'll remind you that after the adoption of the Criminal Code, I, Yuri Karmazin and the National Deputy Bandurk Alexander Markovich had introduced the Criminal Enforcement Code, which was adopted, which you are now making no regrets, well, serious changes very much. I'd like you to understand what you're doing. And so I'm giving you a comprehensive proposal, as the author of the core document that you're now penetrating, I'm telling you that we need to remove the changes to articles 11, 18, 50 and the new article 151 with the label 2, which provides for the creation of, think about, sectors in colonies with a lower level of security. Exclusion for the purpose of avoiding detention in the same institutions for the execution of sentences sentenced to deprivation of liberty for a certain period and sentenced to permanent deprivation of liberty, for this will have a negative effect on both. That's why it needs to be removed.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u102	Please make a proposal to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u103	Well, actually, I have great respect for your legislative work and, of course, for one of the lights of law by Alexander Markovich Bandurka, but let's just say, the committee also had a lot of experience and lawyers and professors who gave expert opinions. Well, in principle, if you insist and say that there is such a difference, I don't see any particular objection there to putting this amendment to the vote. But we can't have the whole structure of the law itself because of the adoption of individual amendments just collapsed, then the law as such would be, well, as it were, really leaky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u104	Amendment 3 of Yuri Karmazin is put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u105	Well, in principle, I don't see any objection to supporting. [[11:24:26]] For-31 Correction not supported. 4 you insist, Yuri Anatolyovich. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u106	Yuri Carmazin. Well, I can see that many people don't have a text in front of them. We voted now, if my amendment is not accepted, I just don't see the point in this law, because in colonies of minimum security, with general conditions of detention, people will be created and there will be people condemned to eternal deprivation of liberty. I'm going to remind you who these killer categories are, these are scary things. Here's what we want to take with you right now. Seriously, it's for those who don't have the law in front of them right now, we've already voted. But article 13 is now proposed to complement part 4 of this content: “Criminal and executive inspection organizes and controls the passage of persons released from the sentence of social behaviour correction by appropriate programs, the list of requirements for content and the order of approval and execution, as determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine.” So these special programs are developed by scientists, everything they give to the government, the government approves and.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u107	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u108	Yuri Anatoliyovich, well, I think, in any case, such odious and serial killers as, well, I won't call them last names, glory to God, for them Ukraine has already forgotten, will not, in any case, be held in places of execution with minimal protection, because, well, that's all for itself. But, yeah, no, well, who's gonna do it. Here. But, nevertheless, I say again, in principle, in order for it to be, as it were, stale, as it were, so to speak, in principle, this amendment can be accepted, I don't see any objection here to support the amendment of Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin. To clarify, to clarify, as it were, even more.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u109	Honorable National MPs, Amendment No. 4 of Jury Carmazin. [[11:26:42]] For-73 Correction not supported. The following amendments are of a technical nature and, I think, Yuri Anatoliyevich, you agree with them, there are 6 amendments and amendment 8. Aren't you going to insist on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u110	By the way, if there's a transfer there, it's only after 15 years of solitary confinement. So there's no danger.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u111	Yes, the distinguished national MPs. Is the priest Olinick insisting on his amendment? No, it's not. All other amendments are included. Yuri Carmazin, last amendment 16. Are you insisting on her? It's about the end of the line. No, it's not. Please conclude the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u112	The committee proposes to accept the amendments voted on in the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u113	Just a minute. Please, Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u114	Dear National Deputies! I raise my hand, you just didn't see it, Vladimir Mikhailovich. It's blocking it here. "The End of Positions" I suggest you put it here in the following wording: “This law takes effect from the day of publication, except for the part of article 13, which takes effect from April 01, 2010.” And "The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to approve" -- well, it's already expired by January 1st, because it can't be anymore; it's already January 1st, 2010. So the first part of only my amendment could be considered. And in general, what is now provided for in this law, as it is now written, “from the day of publication” and everything, is perfectly normal. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'd like an hour to take off my amendment, take off my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u115	This is the procedure, the procedure for enacting the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u116	I, yes, just objectively because she is. The law has been under review for a long time, so I ask this amendment 16 to be withdrawn and may be voted on as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u117	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u118	Please support me in my second reading and generally as a law, honourable deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u119	Ladies and gentlemen, the Chief Legal Authority has no comment on this bill prepared for the second reading. The committee proposes that it be adopted as a law in its final form. I'm betting on a motion for a committee to adopt in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Criminal Code. [[on the protection of the rights of convicted persons in institutions for the execution of sentences]] [[Registration number 2551-d]] Please vote. [[11:29:48]] For 321 The law is passed. Now there's another little law, and then you, here's two amendments, two amendments here. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the protection of the right of persons in custody and convicted persons to unhindered correspondence with a lawyer is being announced for consideration. Vladimir Romanovich Moysik. To this law, respected colleagues, amended by 7 amendments, rejected by one Anatolia Seminoga, all others included. But let's ask Vladimir Romanovich on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u120	Vladimir Moisik, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, drafts prepared for the second reading. And the amendments made by the authors of the legislative initiative are largely taken into account. The amendment of the Seminoga colleague from the "Julia Tymoshenko Block" faction is not taken into account, and the law can generally be adopted as a law. And the committee asks you to receive it in second reading and in general as a law. Thank you for your attention. Yes, on behalf of the party and on behalf of the group.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee proposes to adopt the draft law as a whole in the second reading. The main legal authority gave a positive conclusion. Is there no objection to the vote? I put to the vote a proposal for a second reading committee and, as a whole, a bill of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure the right of persons held in custody and convicted persons to unhindered correspondence with a lawyer. [[Registration number 2460]] Please vote. [[11:32:15.]] For 327 The law is passed. Kiril Kulikov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, I thank you very much for your right to speak, and I ask you to give me the floor to vote on a ruling on a temporary commission of inquiry. This question was discussed on Tuesday. People are waiting, waiting for journalists, so please give my word and vote in favour. I know there's a quick call coming from the Kiev City Department of all deputies, but let's do our duty, our promises to the voters in Kiev. Please give the floor to the head of the interim commission of inquiry.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u123	Dear people's deputies, let's do it. Yuri Anatoliyovich, in the morning there was a proposal that, by the way, was still on the Conciliation Council to consider all the bills relating to second reading. But since it is planned, so I understand the West, if the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not object, we could now decide on the decision to continue our work. I say, "Is there no objection in the Supreme Council?" No. Please, Kirilo Kulikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, once again, thank you for the opportunity to do everything for my hometown, for the capital of Ukraine, our Kiev. The interim commission of inquiry, according to colleagues from many factions, worked really well, listened to all positions, everything else. I'm not going to talk a lot about the results of the report because it's given out, and I can say one thing: there's no such sphere, there's no such direction of Ukrainian legislation that's not violated in Kiev. This is starting with the Basic Law of Ukraine, the Constitution of Ukraine, and ending with the Animal Protection Act. I only want to read one phrase. This card is distributed by the Kyiv mayor. It begins as the Kiev mayor “happy that your material situation allows you to enjoy the most expensive goods and services in the Ukraine market. I do everything I can to keep public opinion on your side, because as an official billionaire, I'm the first to buy these things. But not on the budget. Congratulations." That's the first one. The other one. This is a statistic published by the Ministry of Health, which took place in Kiev from January 1st to 12. I didn't take any other statistics because, you know, holidays are a lot of people. That's it. Between 1 and 12, 7,000 200 citizens were injured. And that's not taking into account the private clinic, and that's not taking into account the state clinic, it's just city hospitals. Seven thousand 200! I have now information that this figure is three times greater. Who will be responsible for the broken hands, for the broken legs? Because our veteran pensioners can't walk around the capital today? Because everything that was stolen. Because even on this accident, these weather conditions make money. And the last. We have a mayor who is a billionaire, and this is a statement on the wages of middle - school workers in Kiev and health - care workers. So, on November, it was 2,300 bracelets for education workers, and 1,700 bracelets for health workers. And the mayor has a billionaire. So, Your Honor, I ask you to support the Supreme Council's ruling, which it is. a temporary commission of inquiry, which is balanced, which is important today for Kiev to find out what is actually going on in Kiev, so that the prosecution does not hide from the challenges we see today in Kiev. I'm addressing you, colleagues, I'm addressing you as a cyanide, I'm addressing you as a national MP: let's save the capital of Ukraine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u125	Ladies and gentlemen, you've been given a draft ruling. I'm going to put the vote on this project as a basis. Is there no objection? I am voting on the proposal: to adopt a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the report of the Interim Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the circumstances of the violation of the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, the adoption of unlawful decisions by officials of the Kiev City Council and its implementing body on the basis of it. Please vote. [[11:37:49]] For 354 I'll take the order. What are the additions, suggestions? Please, Kirilo Kulikov. Then.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u126	I'm proposing a decision to make in general is a one-time deal. And the others. Kiev is a very important question. And it's got a lot of questions in it. This is, first of all, today, Mayor Kiev, chosen by a minority of Chinese, is 300,000. There are about 4 million citizens in Kiev. That's why we should first consider the election of Mayor Kiev, the capital of Ukraine, for the most part, is two tours. The second question is, change for the capital. So I demand that in the next session we put these issues in order of the day first. Thank you very much. Please vote in favour of the ruling as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u127	Yuri Carmazin. Then Peter Zibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u128	Yuri Carmazin. Honourable National Deputies, during the discussion of this document - the report of the interim commission - were informed that the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine is not responding to the request of the parliamentary commission of inquiry. And in particular, I can say that dozens -- and probably not dozens -- of people, but more -- of people, of public organizations that I've sent to the Attorney General's Office, are somehow being blocked. That is why and because of the findings of this commission of inquiry, in the conclusions of the commission of inquiry, we have asked a number of national deputies to listen to a report or information from the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the use of measures to restore legality in the territory of the city of Kiev hero. I propose to see this paragraph about hearing the Attorney General's report at the next plenary session.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u129	Peter Stepanovich Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u130	Thank you. The Communist faction. Head of the Ukrainian veterans' organization, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, to the many comments that have been made, the violent violations of current legislation that have been published during the report of the commission that have been heard today, I want to add another. The point is that in the city, the city of Kiev's hero city, in the capital city of our country, there is one of the largest veteran organizations of 550,000 people. So what I'm saying is that the only city in Ukraine that doesn't finance the War veteran status and social protection of veterans is not funding the veteran organization is the city of Kiev. Even Lviv, even Ternopil, is funding, is limited, but is funded, the city of Kiev has not financed the activities, the statutory activities of veteran organizations for two years. It's me, the faction will support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u131	Yes, the people's deputy Yavo. Pavlenko, then Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u132	Pavlenko, “Block of Lithuania”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u133	Yes, Pavlovenko, “Block Lithuania”. What do we have?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u134	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u135	Thank you. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, honourable colleagues, is that in our opinion this decree cannot be finally adopted today, because the operative part does not specify that there should be changes to the legislation that would prevent such violations that have arisen. Which was discovered by the Interim Investigation Commission. So we suggest that this be taken into account, especially since in the previous consideration, the Blackwillon MP pointed to this several times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u136	Well, now Vladimir Yavorowski, then you. Vladimir Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u137	Vladimir Yavorowski, member of the commission of inquiry Before I've reported my head, I'd like to add another piece of information to our transcript that literally shakes, I think, every person. You know, in the homes of the lonely people who are in Kiev, because, in fact, ritual service, or funeral services, is not financed, today has come to literally being in the courtyards of these houses digging up deep brotherly graves and, in fact, dumping those people who have died. And it's also an error, a colossal fault of the city's power. And, Vladimir Mikhailovich, my address to you: Ask the question about the creation of the TSK on the Inter-Igor. Well, that's logical and normal. Ask that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u138	Let's end with one question. And now, just so there's no sequel, I want to say again, one side wants to go through the border, and the other side wants to go through the lotteries, and the other side wants offshors. Please be patient, then you will consider the matter. Make a decision to the committee. All of it! She's a blacksmith.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u139	Dear friends! I really said that it was necessary to create conditions for that not to happen. But this is not the subject of a decision. The decision is very mild and considerate. It says that there are certain facts that are proposed for consideration by the competent authorities. This is about the President and the prosecution and the Cabinet of Ministers, and about us with you. And that's all. That's why. But it must be accepted. This is a perfectly normal decision, and we need to continue to work on this issue, as well as on other issues that lie before our commission of inquiry. Including, of course, the Interigree should also be set up by a commission. But we need to know clearly that if it wasn't for this to happen, we need to make a normal management scheme in Kiev, including, really, as Kulikov rightly said, this is a two-round election of the city's head. After that, the election will be held. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u140	Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u141	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Yes, indeed, there is a lot of mess in Kiev. But this is not only the Kiev Council's fault, but also the Cabinet of Ministers and the President's. Well, if the mud in Kiev isn't working out, do you really need to take out the students, the Cabinet of Ministers? How to spend money to get the student to the square in front of Yulia Timoshenko was pulled out. Better give that money to the students, they'd take Kiev away. There is a Ministry of Defense. Soldiers would help. Disgusting! First of all, it's a disgrace to the government! Now, with regard to the ruling. Yes, indeed, there are serious shortcomings in the work of the City Mayor's Administration, and order must also be made in Kiev. But the work of the commission was more serious. Sadly, though, an inadequately written decree was made. It must be strengthened in many ways. Both the Cabinet of Ministers and the President must be written here, and the Attorney-General's Office is not under control. In addition, there were many observations. I propose that what we have adopted on first reading be able to formulate concrete proposals to strengthen this decision and that it is adequate for the strong analysis that has been made. And take it tomorrow or after tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u142	Kirilo Kulikov, and we're finalizing the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, I am very grateful to you that everyone is concerned about the fate of the capital. To strengthen this resolve, yes, with joy. This determination, it is balanced. So at the next plenary session, let's take real steps to save the capital of Ukraine. This decision is fundamental to taking steps to break criminal matters in order to send this family clan away from Kiev. Thank you very much. And for that, let's vote. Because it's a balanced, basic, all worked out, the commission worked very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u144	Andrew Kozemyakin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u145	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to say that we are responding calmly to the proposals you are making with the Party of the Regions on the Commission of Others in parallel with the Interigree Commission. Please don't be afraid like these committees, please let them be created. But allowing our political power, our faction, which is made up of 150 members of the people to vote on the decree, is our legal right, we've been asking this question for three months. You are now playing for the Party of Regions, which is afraid that the whole country will see that Mr. Janukovic has stolen this “Megiryya”. That's why we insist, I understand that wolf foxes are the main thing right now. But you don't put the election bill to a vote either.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u146	I'll do it again. Please do not display your emotions with national possessions. This is the first time. And secondly, I put the Elections Act to a vote. The Supreme Council did not include him in the agenda. The next moment. When you introduced this law and made a deal with the Party of Regions, you did not blame anyone who played. You've played yourself. Now, the next moment, I suggest you calm down and work for the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I don't like the position of the Party of Regions and you, that means the position is right. You have, if you're not comfortable with the chairman, 150 signatures, take and head. And you've done everything you can to get what you can get, and now you're blaming someone else. Fear God. And once again, I said, there will be a committee decision to consider this issue and stop the hysterics. I want you to stop the hysterics again. I said on the Conciliation Council that the Supreme Council of Ukraine would work within the Rules, you didn't like it, no one would serve your interests, neither side nor other. And calm down, calm down. Or you beat the smallest faction out of this faction, anything you wanted to beat and blame. Thank God your pants were supported! [[Applause]] And calm down and stop the hysterics, I told you! The decision of the committee will be made to the Supreme Council. Calm down! Dear National Deputies! We've taken the basis of the regulation's draft, here's the proposal to add the opportunity to work out by tomorrow, so I get it? Dear colleagues! I want to say again, you understand very well that the proposal has been made by tomorrow to give us the opportunity to work on it. So please, on the basis of that, tomorrow, submit what are the proposals we're going to put to the final vote. You know, if there's a denial, then. I believe that if a decision is to be made, it should be a serious decision. A draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences, second reading is announced for consideration. [[on strengthening efforts to combat poaching]] [[Registration number 3003]] Reporter: Victor Viktorovich Shemchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u147	Honourable National Deputies, Honorable Fellows, Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Law Enforcement, prepared for the second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences, which was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 2 June 2009. [[on strengthening efforts to combat poaching]] The proposed bill aims at strengthening administrative responsibility for violating a number of requirements for Ukrainian legislation in the field of environmental protection, improving public control in the field of environmental protection and extending the powers of both officials of the relevant public authorities and public inspectors of environmental protection, hunting inspectors and inspectors of fisheries protection authorities. [[on the establishment of administrative delinquency protocols for certain types of offences]] The draft law included 23 proposals, of which 15 were fully considered, three were taken into account editorially and five were rejected. In particular, the proposal of National Deputy Carmazin to amend part two of article 85 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Violations has been rejected, increasing the penalties on the grounds that the Committee is preparing a second reading of a draft law that provides for amendments to a number of articles of the Code on Administrative Violations, including the article mentioned. [[Registration number 1154]] The proposal of the national deputy Kruc has also been rejected, since it refers to sub-paragraph “b”, paragraph 2 of article 2 of the draft law, which is excluded from the project at the suggestion of the authors of the People's Deputies of Doub and Shencev. With regard to proposal No. 21, 22, 23 of the People's Deputies of Carmazin, they have been rejected because they provide for amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Hunting and Hunting, as well as to the Ukrainian Law on Animal Life, which do not refer to the subject matter of regulation of the law that we have considered today and do not match its meaning and name. And also for the stenographer. The proposal No. 12 of Ukraine’s National Deputies is taken into account by the Committee, since they coincide with the proposals made by the national deputies of Doub and Shencev. And in the comparative table given by the National MP, there's a technical error. The principal legal administration of the specified draft law is being implemented without notice. Taking into account what has been said, the Committee on Legislative Security and Law Protection asks the Ukrainian National Deputies to support the bill and to adopt it as a law in a second reading and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u148	Dear colleagues! Who insists on their amendments that are not included here? Yuri Carmazin, number four. Yuri Anatolyovich, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u149	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I want to say that you and I adopted this code back in 1984, not us, but the state. So this code is already patched-over, it needs to be adopted in a completely different way. That's the first one. And the second. I wanted to pay attention to the huge problems that there are if suddenly someone dies from those people who are authorized to exercise control in the field of hunting and hunting, and these are now, and they're not protected, these people, they have to be protected. So when I suggest these questions here, I would like to go to this law, and I would like to think, at least, to the people's deputies, that there are problems like this. I would like to wake up these committees where it lies, which are bound to settle these issues, just to make them think they're getting paid for something. And now I don't insist on considering these amendments. But I'd like to be heard so that it can happen to all the national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u150	Yes, please, Victor Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u151	Dear Yuri Anatolyovich! Indeed, your opinion is correct and I see no absolute problems, because, as you are a national MP, as the author of the legislative initiative, you can initiate these amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Hunting and Hunting, also to the Animal World Act. Indeed, your suggestions are correct, but they do not apply to the subject matter of the law under consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u152	Yuri Anatolyevich, do you insist on voting for the amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u153	I got it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u154	I got it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u155	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the committee's proposal, please, Victor Viktorovich, once again.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u156	The committee's proposal to support, the proposal by the Committee on Legislative Security to support the bill, and to adopt it in second reading and generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, a second reading committee proposal is put to the vote as a bill of the draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences. [[on strengthening efforts to combat poaching]] [[Registration number 3003]] Please vote. Please vote. [[11:55:22]] For-174 The decision is not taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] What, what? [[B in m in s a l in]] I would be willing to vote on the second reading of the draft Act. [[Registration number 3003]] Please vote. The factions will now show the previous vote. [[11:55:53]] For 287 Decision taken. Please show by factions the voting for the law as a whole. On the board, if possible. You can't print the previous one anymore, can you? Well, the last one, unfortunately, can't. Dear colleagues, at the time of our consideration of the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on protection of cultural heritage. Since the law that contains it contains many amendments, there is such a proposal, to announce a break of up to 12 hours 30 minutes, and after a break to consider it, to proceed to the consideration of the law. No objections? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u158	Please invite the national deputies to the session room so that they can continue their work. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the Protection of Cultural Heritage]] Registration number 3190. The rapporteur is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement, Moisik Volodymir Romanovich. Please, Vladimir Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u159	Vladimir Moisik, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The proposed bill amends the Criminal Code, the Civil Code, the Code of Administrative Offences, a number of laws: museums and museums, protection of cultural heritage, rental of state and municipal property, and so on. In view of the fact that the Criminal Code and the Code of Administrative Offences were amended in the first place, the law is placed under the jurisdiction of our Committee on Legislative Protection. After the first reading, a working group or a group of experts from the committee led by Vladimir Yavorowski of the Ministry of Security was created. Culture, was the prime minister's deputy and before you a bill that was set up without notice and by the Chief Legal Authority. A total of 72 amendments were made to the committee by the national deputies of the legislators. Of these, 58 are included, 14 are rejected from the reasons that are in the comparative table, but I have to point out even more of these, dear colleagues. On October 21, proposals came to the committee from the director of the Institute of Archaeology, Mr. Toloczka, and the National Deputy of Koleschenko, to make changes to individual articles of the law, and these changes related to the definition of the central executive body in matters of protection of cultural heritage and archaeology and their powers. In view of what the question was. read by different authors of the letters, the committee sent its bill to the Ukrainian National Academy of Sciences, personally to Prime Minister Timoshenko of Ukraine and Minister of Culture, Mr. Vukun, asking him to give the commission to study the proposals and make his conclusions. Unfortunately, there are completely opposite conclusions from both the Presidency and the Cabinet and the Ministry of Culture. So the committee, after we have considered the whole bill, will recommend to the Supreme Council a bill in part of the amendments to the Cultural Heritage Protection Act in full scope to be submitted to the third reading in the session hall. Thank you for your attention. Now we can follow the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u160	Thank you. Adam Martinyuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u161	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I ask you to support the committee and immediately send it back to read again, now not to go and not to waste time, because, really, there are some pretty serious remarks, fair remarks by the Institute of Archaeology, the National Academy of Sciences on what is there, if we accept a bill in this paper, more specifically the amendments of some of our colleagues. Unfortunately, my colleagues probably didn't think when they made those proposals, someone told them what to do, they didn't get in, I don't want to call them names and criticize them. But if we accept it, we will completely destroy our archaeological acquisition, because there can be no archeologists allowed to do, build, dig boilers and whatever else you want. So I suggest, let's not waste time immediately directing him to re-read. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u162	Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u163	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. I agree with the proposal that no bill should be voted on in this form. And not only is there certain observations made by the Institute of Archaeology, but it actually has a 100-year history that deserves objective evaluation and objective action. But there's a fundamental point here, is that some of the amendments are changing the reconciliation system itself. [[I don't want to call the authors, obviously it's not about names.]] That is, without archaeologists, the issue of whether or not there is a need to explore cultural monuments, where national monuments and security zones, construction sites, bridges, and so on can be solved. Do you understand what this could lead to? This could simply ruin our archaeological space, our archaeological heritage. You'll have to be careful here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u164	Dear colleagues! One minute, you're almost there, Vladimir Romanovich. This is already under discussion, so John the Rabbit, Michael Chechetov, Yuri Carmazin, and we will make decisions or follow. and Vladimir. All right, this is a discussion. One of the factions. This is about transferring the second reading to another reading. There's a suggestion: either we go in an articleistic way, we look at and vote, or we accept the committee's proposal: we send for a second reading again. Why spend time? Ivan Hare, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u165	The point is, we have to take some responsibility for this bill. If we just send the whole thing right now, we're going around a big circle, and again this bill is not coming to the Supreme Council. It calls for a warning of several articles, that's what the previous speakers said -- 61, call it straight, and 65 articles, all of it. So we can accept it in a second reading without 61, 65 articles, and then we can send it out for a third reading, or we can just throw it away. One thing is whether there are voices in the Supreme Council now, whether or not there are representatives of megafractions. Let them express themselves. If they vote, it is more convenient today to reject a few amendments and accept them in a second reading, and those few amendments are made.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u166	Mikhailo Chechetov. Here's the problem, it won't be accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, that's the style of government work. Once again, this next tuft will be lifted from the Cabinet of Ministers, which cannot be found on its head. It was like the budget: they put the budget in the Supreme Council, trying to prescrib through the press what needs to be adopted, and there is no legislative basis, realizing that adopting the budget is a disaster for the country, but plus for Yulia Timoshenko's financial resources for the elections. Of course we didn't go for it. Then, I agree with Adam Martinuk, with Oleg Zarubinski, who said quite correctly that in this edition it is not acceptable to harm the country directly. Straight. Regrettably, the authorship of the Cabinet of Ministers is not clear on who it works for or which country it lives in. That's why there's one way out. The absolute majority said both from the opposition and from the coalition that it was necessary to re-read. The law is necessary, but it is not in this order, nor are the idiotic amendments that have been made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u168	Yuri Karmazin and Vladimir Yavorowski
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u169	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! You see, not only do we change the Criminal Code, not just the Administrative Code, but we change the basic laws governing the handling of objects of architecture. The Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage, that is, these basic legislative acts. Even in the laws on investment and others. That's why I think it would be right if we didn't just involve the Institute of Archaeology now, the fact that he's not the subject of the legislative initiative, the expertise in his part he can do, and we need to involve the Committee on Cultural Affairs, and protocolly assign that two committees should now consider and assist, in this case, the colleague of Moses, because it's not his business to get involved, and not his committee in this. And I beg you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. It's that case.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u170	Vladimir Yavorowski. Then Mikhailo Kosov, and then we'll determine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u171	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! I have to say that that version of the law with the addition really increases the defense of our cultural heritage. That's why you can't talk about some idiotic stuff, there, repairs and stuff. I'm talking to my colleague who said that. I'll tell you what. When this law was passed, the composition of the Supreme Council made one amendment to it. In fact, the Institute of Archaeology of the Academy of Sciences, which is an entirely independent institution that, well, is not subject to government, is an absolute monopoly. The executive authority is totally excluded. And I think that Moses, as a high school lawyer, will support me in this. Because of this question, it is a questionable one. Because of this, Vladimir Mikhailovich, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I explained that there are indeed two discussion articles, but they are principled. A discussion could be held around this. I propose today to remove this bill, not drag it there on the third and third "a" -- and consider it after the holidays. We'll discuss it, there'll be more time. The presidential election is over.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u172	Mikhail Kosov, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u173	Mikhailo Kosov, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, Party “Reforms and Orders”. I would just like to point out that there is a fundamental term that has been discussed in these two articles. And it was about objectivity. Colleagues, legislators, and do you really think that if we give the role of the State central authority to a public organization, which is the Institute of Archaeology, then we can talk about objectivity? You don't think there'll be any, uh, subjective, I'll say, competing circumstances? And so it's in vain to think that in the executive central body that the Ministry of Culture is going to create, there will be no archaeologists who can give permission on the basis of professional, very deep investigations. You can't do that to communities.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u174	Please, Vladimir Romanovich, your offer is based on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u175	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I have informed our committee's position. But Comrade Carmazin rightly pointed out that how many subjects of regulation in this draft law were required to include all the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as profilers. But what we have with regard to certain issues is that we would like to confirm in the second reading, while the Cultural Heritage Protection Act should be passed on to the third reading and the Yavorowski Committee should be defined as a professional committee, but it should be your decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u176	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move forward in this way, because the law is very important and not to be burned, I will now put it to a second reading vote and in general, according to the procedure. If the Supreme Council of Ukraine has not supported it, then we are sending, voting with you to read again, because if we go to the articles now, we will not reach compromise here, you understand that very well.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u177	Can he move it?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u178	And to move on, there's a vote to be made, and we're in the process of dealing with the issue. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, let's do it this way. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you, this is already going into discussion. I'll put it to a vote in accordance with the Rules. By the way, the committee suggests that it be accepted in the second reading and in general, and the Chief Legal Authority has called for no notice. So now I'm voting on the acceptance of it in the second reading and generally as such. And in the second, I put it to a second reading vote, without "in general". On the adoption, in a second reading, of the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on protection of cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u179	No, second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u180	In the second reading. In the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u181	Yeah, yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u182	In the second reading. [[B in m in s a l in]] Once again, honourable colleagues, I put to the vote the second reading of the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on protection of cultural heritage (registration No. 3190). Please vote. [[12:46:38]] For-179 The decision is not taken. I would like to propose a second motion: to re-read the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on protection of cultural heritage. [[Registration number 3190]] Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u183	Tomorrow, tomorrow. [[12:47:13]] For 298
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u184	Decision taken. Ivan Aleksandrovich, a respected colleague, is required by the Rules, and we have acceded to the Rules. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts establishing responsibility for anti-competitive concerted action is being announced for consideration. There's a letter from the committee. They propose to postpone consideration of this issue in connection with the appeal of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine and the individual deputies that came between 18 January and 21 January. What will be the offer? So I'm going to put it to a vote, please support the postponement of the draft of this law. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal for the committee to move the matter forward. Do we have to put it to a vote or do we agree with the committee's recommendation? Do you agree? Thank you. A draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine on responsibility for unlawful treatment of special technical means of receiving information is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 3358]] The rapporteur is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement, Moisik Volodymir Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u185	Vladimir Moisik, “For Ukraine” MP. Dear colleagues, the Committee on Law Enforcement, discussed in a second reading the Cabinet of Ministers law on responsibility for the illegal treatment of special technical means of receiving information. The purpose of the bill is to bring legislation in line with the Constitution of Ukraine by improving the legal regime for the protection of fundamental personal rights and freedoms of citizens. The bill proposes amendments to two articles of the Criminal Code. The first is to complete a list of things that are or are being smuggled. Thus, no matter how much information they receive, special technical means of obtaining information will in themselves become the subject of smuggling. And the second. A new article 359 states. At present, criminal responsibility lies solely with the illegal use of such means, and it will be established if we adopt the law, and for the illegal manufacture, acquisition, sale, storage for the purpose of using special technical means of receiving information in a non-verbal manner. One amendment was made by the author of the legislative initiative. He suggested raising the lower bounds of punishment. The committee disagreed. The committee therefore proposes that the bill be adopted in the second reading and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u186	Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, are you insisting on your amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u187	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not insist on my amendment. I would like this law to take effect as soon as possible. So I would like to vote it now as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u188	Dear colleagues, the committee proposes to adopt a draft law on the second reading and in general, registration number 3358. I am voting on this proposal, namely, on the adoption of a second reading and generally as a bill of the Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine with regard to the responsibility for unlawful treatment of special technical means of receiving information. Registration number 3358. Please vote. [[12:51:49]] For-142 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on a motion to re-read the draft law. [[Registration number 3358]] Please vote. For a second read, by the way, this is proposed by the General Legal Authority. [[12:52:14]] For 267 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Criminal and Criminal Enforcement Codes of Ukraine to introduce a correction of the social behaviour of persons exempt from punishment and trial is being announced for consideration. Registration number 3329. The rapporteur is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement activities, Prokopchuk Yuri Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u189	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Bill No. 3329, proposed by you, amending the Criminal and Criminal Enforcement Codes of Ukraine to introduce a correction of the social behaviour of persons released from the trial of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the first reading of June 23, 2009, “for” to 299 votes. It introduces for persons released from punishment with the test of mandatory social behaviour adjustment courses aimed at correcting the convicted person, his successful socio-psychological and economic function in the future. The aforementioned draft Law of Ukraine proposes to amend the Criminal and Criminal Enforcement Codes of Ukraine, namely: to complete the list of duties that the court may impose on a person who is exempt from the trial of a portion of the first article 76 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, a new point of such content, paragraph six: “To go through the correction of social behaviour by the relevant programme”; to supplement article 13 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine with a new part of such content with paragraph four: “Criminal and Enforcement Inspection organizes and controls the conduct of persons released from the test of correction of social behaviour by appropriate programs. Order of development, list, content requirements and order of implementation approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine.” The adoption of this project as a Ukrainian law will require financial costs aimed at: developing scientific institutions for corrective programmes; training of staff; increasing the state of criminal and executive inspection of the Ukrainian State Criminal and Enforcement Service, social services centres in the family, children and young Ukrainian Ministries of Family, Youth and Sports, or purchasing social services in other public or private entities that will have the right to implement the identified programmes; expanding the scope of service facilities and the acquisition of equipment to carry out the relevant activities, which are components of correctional programmes. Moreover, according to the Budget Committee, the implementation of the bill would have an impact on the budget's spending, increasing it. The committee therefore proposes to take into account the amendments made by the Ukrainian National Deputies to the “Transitional Regulations” of Bill No. 3329, which relate to the deadline for the introduction of the law in force and the deadline for the Government to establish a census, the requirements for the content and order of approval and the implementing programmes for the correction of the social behaviour of persons released from punishment for one year, and not two, as proposed in the draft as a result of its first reading. [[12 months after publication]] Both amendments made by P.D. Karmazin to part one of chapter one of the bills are proposed to be rejected, since they do not, in effect, carry specific provisions to the content of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u190	Let me finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u191	In view of what has been said, given that the novels introduced in the project are aimed at correcting the conduct of the condemned person or his or her individual manifestations, creating socio-friendly personality changes that can be objectively checked for the purpose of ensuring the safety of society, employment and education of the convicted person, warning of the recurrence of crime, etc. The proposal is made to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of Bill No. 3329, in the second reading proposed by the Committee, and as a whole as a law. I'd like your support, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u192	Yuri Anatolyevich, you insist on your amendments. Microphone, please, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u193	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I've tried to change this bill somehow, but it's obvious to me now that it can't be changed. So the bill is of a completely questionable quality. At the time, there were no conclusions and observations by the Chief Legal Authority, now they are on three sheets. That is, if the bill is put on a binoculars, it is noted on three sheets. In view of the situation of articles 6, 19, 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine, it is said that this should be done by the legislative body itself. So we're going to define a system of organs that are going to be correcting. The content of the concept of “correction of social behaviour” has not been disclosed. There are no requirements that should apply to applications and that should contain them, etc. All the comments on the three pages, please see with the conclusion that there is a need for meaningful work. And re-reading the second reading. So I'm gonna stick to it, please don't look at mine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u194	Yes, thank you, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u195	I see. So, really, there's a reference to the scientific expertise of our administration, but there's also a legal one. And there's a corresponding explanatory note and an expert paper from the Ministry of Justice, by the way, and both are legal bodies that give an expert assessment. So, on the part of the Ministry of Justice, they didn't come to the bill. That's why. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, I wouldn't look at it like that, you know, we're all very concerned, by the way, Adam Ivanovich, we're all concerned about how today a person who, by the way, I'm not going to run parallels and translate.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u196	I'm asking respectable colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u197	It won't translate into politics when one of the candidates who had problems once in accordance with the law and then very hard to read the memoirs as the social adaptation of this candidate went on. [[B in m in s a l in]] So I want to say that this law for all without exception, who wants to be President and Prime Minister in the future, but has had such problems, it makes social adaptation. And that's at the expense of the state authorities, yes, of course. Because social adaptation must be done exclusively by the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u198	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Let's not go into the area of discussion. The committee proposes that this law be adopted in the second reading and generally as a law. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. I'm putting a motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u199	I think the Party of Regions should support unanimously.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u200	I put to the vote a motion for adoption in the second reading and in general as a bill of the bill amending the Criminal and Criminal Enforcement Codes of Ukraine. [[on the introduction of a correction of social behaviour of persons released from trial]] [[Registration number 3329]] Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u201	Please be supportive. [[12:59:59]] For 148 The decision is not taken. The factions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u202	Then there's a re-offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u203	Region Party – 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 106, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 22, communists – 0, "Litvina Block" – 20, non-fractional – 0. I would be willing to vote on the second reading of the draft Act. [[Registration number 3329]] [[13:00:34]] For 155 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u204	Well, they don't want to be corrected. So that's how it's gonna stay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u205	A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Cross-border Cooperation is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 4029]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of Belarus Oleg Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u206	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, Foreign Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u207	During the break.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u208	I have considered carefully the draft Act amending the Law on Cross-border Cooperation in Ukraine. [[Registration number 4029]] I'm asking the BUT faction to stop these poor people.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u209	Oh, right, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u210	My friend, Dry, take your place of honor. This bill was designed to implement parliamentary hearing recommendations on: “To intensify Ukraine’s cooperation with the European Union within the framework of the Euroregions and the perspective of cross-border cooperation” and was adopted at the first reading on June 10 last year. A working group under the direction of a subcommittee on external economic relations and cross-border cooperation of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Greenwich was set up in preparation for the drafting of the draft bill, including coworkers from interested ministries, the secretariat of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and the Office of the Supreme Council. The general working group carefully studied and considered the proposals, many of them being expressed by legal entities. The draft law provides for the strengthening of the role of the Central Executive Authority in the area of regional development of MINREGIONBUD, the coordination of cross-border cooperation. The bill is in line with the Supreme Council’s Chief Legal Authority and with the comments made, most of which are taken into account. On October 7, 2009, the Committee reviewed the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Cross-border Cooperation and recommended it before the adoption of the Supreme Council. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u211	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendments are all included in this bill. The committee suggests that we accept the second reading as a whole. Any other suggestions? None. That's why. Please, National Deputy Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u212	Thank you. I basically support this bill, but I have two questions for the reporter on the final text and one unaccounted for amendment. On the third page, paragraph 3 in the right column provides for a mechanism for joint funding of cross-border cooperation. What can be a common funding mechanism when it comes to funding from budgets or from sources of nations? What financial institution will carry out this joint funding? And the second question. On what grounds is the amendment of the 4th National Deputy Shevchuk, which also provides for the possibility of involving the credit resources of international financial organizations to finance cross-border cooperation. Why is this position excluded? Why is it that the final edition does not provide for the possibility of borrowing from international financial organizations? I'd like to answer these questions and then I'll decide how to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u213	I hope you've already identified yourself as you stated in your statement of support. What about co-financing or co-financing? In international practice, which includes industrial cooperation and scientific and technical cooperation, this is common practice. Such things are subject to negotiation and are subject to contractual arrangements in the form of agreements. And they're calendarizing and there's no discovery of this world. As for the second question. Why was the amendment removed? I can't answer that in detail, because I don't have a motivation in my papers to remove this amendment. The commission recommends that it be removed as irrelevant to this law. If you have a different offer, you have had the opportunity to make your suggestions in second reading, for this was the time.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u214	No, it is not possible to make proposals verbally today. If a negative amendment can be supported, it can be done either by voting or by amending the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u215	I, my esteemed colleagues, vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u216	What, what? So I'm going to put amendment number four of Chevchuk's voting colleagues and ask her to support it. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, the amendment number 4 of Sergey Shevchuk is put to the vote. Please vote. The committee doesn't object.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u217	I don't deny it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u218	Please vote. [[13:07:44]] For 243 Correction counted. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal of the Second reading Committee and, as a whole, the bill of the Act of Amendment to the Ukrainian Law on Cross-border Cooperation, taking into account the amendment of Sergio Shevchuk, who received the support of 243 national deputies. [[Registration number 4029]] Please vote. [[13:08:22]] For 296 The law is passed. I am announcing a draft Act amending the Act on Resorts in Ukraine. [[Registration number 3249]] The rapporteur is the head of the Health Committee subcommittee Yuri Alexanderovich Haydaev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u219	Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich, great colleagues! In preparation for the second reading, proposals were made by 10 Ukrainian national deputies, only 11 amendments were made, 8 of which were taken into account, 3 were rejected. According to the committee, the amendments proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to the law create the possibility of removing parts of the land of the resorts and using them for other purposes, unfortunately. I'm sorry for the simplicity -- changes for the jerk of the resort land. In addition, when the draft legislation was adopted, it was possible to use adjacent land with the area of the first and second areas of the health care area for non-occupational activities, which could have a negative impact on the quality of the natural health resources of the resort. The proposed changes to the law, the term “significant distance” is such, proposed, but neither by law nor by legislation of Ukraine is the term defined. The authors were never able to legally justify the necessary application of the term in the law before the second reading. As a result, articles 8, 30, 31, 32 are left in the law that works. Thus, most of the amendments made to the Ukrainian Act on Resorts were rejected as groundless, irrelevant and contradictory to the Constitution of Ukraine. And despite this, the changes that remained in the bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine were nevertheless noted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let me sum it up. It is quite possible that the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Resorts adopted in 2000 require review, review or clarification, but the review of individual articles only leads to disagreements in the law and creates the possibility of non-implementation or ignoring the Ukrainian Law on Resorts in general, which means that the resorts remaining are simply destroyed. In this regard, the committee proposes to remove it from consideration and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to approach the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Resorts as a whole, if necessary. A second reading in this case, according to the committee, will not fix the situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u220	Dear colleagues, several amendments have not been taken into account. 1 Amendment by Yuri Carmazin. Are you insisting on her, Yuri Anatolyevich? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u221	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! In order to consider the Law on Resorts, we need to look at the situation at our resorts in general. The situation at our resorts is weary. The situation with those sanatoriums that remain somewhere else is also weary. That is why I agree with what has now been said and ask you not to consider the amendment so as not to take up your precious time. Let's spend it on something else right now under this law and support the committee head's opinion. By the way, he was both a minister of health and a vote. I don't know if I have the political will to vote in the room today after such a committee proposal. I'm going to make my amendment in this case because I don't see the point of just, you know, putting amendments to that bill now that can be rejected in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u222	Yes, dear fellows! Please, Yuri Alexanderovich, the committee's proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u223	To reject this bill. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u224	No, no. One minute. I have a pass. I have an idea to accept it on the second reading, so the committee didn't offer it, it's your proposal. Is that what I'm saying?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u225	Nope. This is a committee proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u226	Dear colleagues, I'll read you a document signed by Bachelor's Aunt Dmitry. In the second reading, the bill proposes to be adopted as a law as a whole. So I will now put to the vote a proposal by the committee on the adoption of the second reading and generally as a bill of the bill amending the Ukrainian Act on Resorts. [[Registration number 3249]] Please vote. [[13:13:39]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. I would like to vote on the second reading of the draft law. [[Registration number 3249]] [[13:14:04]] For 165 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service is being announced for consideration. [[on military reserve service]] [[second reading]] The rapporteur is the head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Anatoly Stepanovich Grizenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u227	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, a respected colleague, immediately says that our committee unanimously recommends that we support him in the second reading and in general. The main scientific and expert administration has no reference to this law. The 35 revisions were 34. I want to thank you for your active work on the bill of deputies Kuzmuk, Karmazin and Shamanov. One amendment — Deputy Shamanova, number 11 — was rejected because it is essentially already included in the law in force and provides for a contract to be signed before a person goes to the reserve, a permanent reserve of the Armed Forces. The bill is more technical, since these changes were introduced in 2006. Now we have to finish them off. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u228	Dear colleagues, the bill has been clearly worked out. The Chief Legal Authority fully agrees with the committee’s work. The committee suggests that we accept the second reading as a whole. Is there no objection? I submit a proposal to the committee for adoption in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service. [[on military reserve service]] [[Registration number 3340]] Please vote. [[13:15:59]] For 309 The law is passed. Next law, draft law: amending article 29 of the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service. [[Registration number 3634]] The rapporteur is the head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Anatoly Stepanovich Grizenko. Please, Anatoly Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u229	Dear colleagues, this bill. It has happened that the same law has been proposed at different times, so it is the same law, and the committee unanimously proposes to support it in the second reading and in general. Of the nine proposals, eight were included, and one was removed because it was the subject of another law. There is one position that I would like to hear and consider. Chief Legal Authority, I point out that this law gives the Minister of Defense the right to determine the number of those who appeal to educational congregations. And I point out that this authority belongs to the Cabinet of Ministers in accordance with the Cabinet Act. There is a problem, not with our law, but with a valid legislative basis. Since one law states that this is the mandate of Kabmin, the other is the basic law, and that this is the mandate of the General Staff. Even in the third law, the minister of defense is given the right, not to the congregations, but to call on the officers to his own discretion, according to the need for defense. So we would like to find out about this compromise in the form proposed by the committee: that the Ministry of Defence be empowered to determine how many people will be called on to study congregations for reserve staff each year. I'd like you to support me as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u230	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, the bill has been passed. He has a high readiness, and the committee suggests that he accept it in the second reading and generally as a law. I am voting on this proposal, namely, on the adoption of a second reading and generally as a bill of the draft law amending article 29 of the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service. [[Registration number 3644]] Please vote. The committee found a compromise position, and he's offering to support it. [[13:18:39]] For 257 The law is passed. Thank you. Introducing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Military Status. [[Registration number 3638]] The rapporteur is the head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Anatoly Stepanovich Grizenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u231	Dear colleagues, so that the title of the War Status Act is not immediately feared against the background of the political situation, has no bearing whatsoever, it is absolutely necessary to defend the law. It provides a procedure for conditions and lists of jobs, guarantees of people and everything else if it engages in the performance of tasks that are important to the State. These questions have not yet been properly settled. The committee also unanimously proposes to support it as a whole. There were four proposals that were considered essentially or editorially to preserve this substance. There is one question that concerns the Supreme Council’s Chief Legal Authority. The point is that the legal system insists that the conditions and corresponding restrictions that are set for this period are determined by the law of Ukraine. At the same time, these are technological things that are particularly difficult to predict by the law of Ukraine, such as the list of work in the event of epidemics, episodes, pandemics and whatever, the number of people involved, the areas in which this is done, the period of guarantees of employment and everything else. We have proposed that this be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine within the framework of the powers given to it under the Cabinet Act and, accordingly, by the Constitution and everything else. This will be an effective mechanism. If the law of Ukraine is in place when it has to be done, first, second and last readings, then we will fail to perform important tasks. I would like to support you as suggested by the committee as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u232	Ladies and gentlemen, no objection? A second reading committee is therefore put to the vote as a bill of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Military Status. [[Registration number 3638]] Please vote. [[13:21:07]] For-286 The law is passed. Please, what do you have?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u233	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention, Vladimir Mikhailovich? We have a bill that the President passed on the direction of our own. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll tell you now. Contingent in Côte d'Ivoire. So now the first deputy of the M.E.S. is sitting here. I have an offer. Since the solution is obvious, it will be negative, let's look at it and put it at this point. I made an offer. If there's no agreement, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u234	What?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u235	If there's no agreement, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u236	Your Honor, there's no agreement. We could do it this way. Everyone understands what's going on. Put it to a vote, that's all. Oh, no? Please, Anatoly Stepanovich is not supported. The draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine on the implementation of an external independent assessment of the quality of education and the establishment of responsibility for the violation of the procedure for conducting external independent evaluation of knowledge and the use of its results is announced for consideration. [[second reading]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Science and Education's subcommittee, Orobec Lesy Yuryovan. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u237	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, distinguished colleagues! I propose a bill to amend some of Ukraine's legislative acts on introducing an external independent assessment of the quality of education and establishing responsibility for violating the order of conduct of external independent evaluation of knowledge and the use of its results. [[Registration number 4241]] On April 15, the project was adopted as a basis in the first reading of the Supreme Council decree. The second reading of the project to the Science and Education Committee included more than 200 suggestions and comments from both the legislators and the general educational community. The Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, the Association of Rectors of Higher Education Institutions, the Rectors of the Red Corps, the Rectors of KPI, the Association of Rectors of Technical Institutions of Ukraine, the Board of Rectors of the Kyiv Region, the Association of School Managers of Ukraine, and so on. The vast majority of proposals after careful research and discussion on the committee were supported. I would like to pay particular attention to the fundamental amendments that contributed to the improvement of the content and logic of the National Deputies Project: Lolodimir Ivanovich, Klukkowski Yuri Bogdanović, Samylik Katerina Mikhailovna, and Kiwalov Sergey Vasilovich. In summary, 82 amendments have been made to the table, 47 of which are fully included, 15 in part, and 20 are rejected, mainly because of duplication of some of the provisions in the text of the law. The committee's proposal is to enact a law as a whole with amendments to the committee that I am fully joining. And finally, dear colleagues! I would very much like to view this project as a purely educational project, that is, not political. Not by chance among its authors, members of the committee are representatives of the three factions, the largest factions of Parliament. In addition, millions of educators and parents of future graduates join the project. It was no accident that the Lithuanian bloc supported the draft law in the first reading, for which the educational community is deeply grateful to the political power. I would like to remind you that, according to the Democratic Initiative Fund, almost 80 percent of the population supports external independent evaluation reforms, 72 percent trust these tests. Please, dear fellows, do not deceive their expectations. I hope so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u238	Dear colleagues! Who insists on amendments that have not been taken into account? I understand. But, dear colleagues, perhaps someone insists? You don't? I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and in general as a bill of law. [[Registration number 4241]] On amending some Ukrainian legislation on the introduction of an external independent assessment of the quality of education and establishing responsibility for the violation of the external independent evaluation of knowledge and the use of its results. Please vote. [[13:26:03]] For 203 The decision is not taken. I am betting on voting for re-reading the draft law. [[Registration number 4241]] May I have a second vote, please? [[13:26:30.]] For-188. The decision is not taken. The factions. Now, dear fellows, I think it would be wise for you to go to the second one again, and let the committee work. The process is going, and we're not taking the law. Adam Martinyuk. I'll be right there, just a minute. I'll set it up now. Just calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u239	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, the law has gone to rest, so let's forget about it. I want to go back to another proposal. We can now support the offer of the head of the Gristenk profile committee to consider military issues. Let's go back to him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u240	Let's do it this way, dear fellows, one minute. Let's work this way. I'm going to put again the vote on the return to the consideration of the second reading. Please vote for the second one again, please. [[on Bill 4241]] Let the committee work. [[13:27:47]] For 208 The factions, please. Region Party – 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 128, Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense – 60, Communists – 0, Litvina Block – 20, non-fractional – 0. The bill was rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, two to go, let's go. I propose that there are two bills left in the second reading, and then we will consider the deployment of the contingent. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on bringing in compliance with the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on International Private Law]] [[Registration number 2438]] The rapporteur is a member of the Justice Committee, Dmitri Mikitovich Pritica. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u241	Ladies and gentlemen, Bill 2438 on amendment to some Ukrainian legislation is being tabled in the order of your second reading. [[on the introduction of separate acts of legislation in accordance with the Ukrainian law on private international law]] In preparing the draft for the second reading, the comments and suggestions of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council; the National Deputies: Carmazin, Tarasyuk, Krutsa. Only two suggestions from the national deputy Kruc to article 123 and article 382 of the master code of Ukraine remain unaccounted for. In particular, the National MP proposes to include in article 123 a rule that does not extend the procedural laws of Ukraine to foreign subjects. The committee did not support such a proposal, since it would conflict with the content of the article itself, which clearly states that foreign operators have the same procedural rights and responsibilities as Ukrainian owners. These rights and obligations are defined by the Ukrainian Procedural Codes, which are laws that are bound by foreign owners. Hence, the offer of a national MP was rejected. In addition, he suggests that the words “in court” be deleted in part three of article 382. This is also not supported by the committee because, apart from the court, no one can consider the terms of the contract concluded between the foreign - Ukrainian authorities. In the second reading of the draft law, a more clearly defined procedure for referring with a court order to foreign courts and enforcement procedures was proposed. The law was enacted by the bill without any notice. The Committee on Justice at its meeting on September 23, 2009, supported the proposed drafting recommendations and requests Parliament to support the bill in second reading and in general as a law. Please be supportive. That's a lot.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u242	Dear National Deputies! There are no two amendments to our colleague, Krutz. Are you insisting on these amendments? No, it's not. Everyone else is accounted for. There is no central legal administration of the bill's observations. So I'm voting on a proposal for a committee to adopt in a second reading and as a whole as a bill of the bill amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[on the conduct in accordance with the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on International Private Law]] Please vote. [[13:31:41]] For-286 The decision has been taken, or the law has been passed. I am announcing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Insurance Act. [[on agricultural risks]] [[Registration number 3248]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Finance and Banking's subcommittee, Alexander Ivanovich Klimenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u243	Thank you. Dear National Deputies, Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, to the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Insurance Act, our Committee on Finance and Banking in its session has considered a comparative table that invites you to support it now. [[on agricultural risks]] [[by number 3248]] [[of 3.10.2008]] I would like to point out that the bill had only three proposals from the national deputies, two of which were taken into account and one proposed by the national deputy Karmazin on the second edition of article 7, paragraph 11, of the Law on Insurance, was rejected because on June 4, last year, I apologize, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, in which this paragraph was deleted altogether. [[on the improvement of the mechanisms for State regulation of the agricultural market]] [[by number 1447-6]] Following comments and suggestions, the bill is intended to introduce a new type of voluntary insurance – agricultural insurance, including crop insurance for agricultural crops and perennial crops, crop crops and sugar beet crops, as well as farm animals, birds, rabbits, fur animals, bees, fish and other aquatic resources. Once the draft law has been passed, the authorized authority will have the right to issue, and insurance companies will be able to obtain a licence for voluntary agricultural risk insurance. It should be noted that the adoption of the draft law will also provide an opportunity to separate in the reporting of insurers to the authorized authority the data relating to agricultural risk insurance for the calculation of the amounts required for subsidies from the national budget of Ukraine to agrarian market entities. I'm talking about the insurance grant fund. In view of what has been said, the Committee proposes a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Agricultural Risk Insurance, under number 3248, to be adopted on second reading and as a whole. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u244	Ladies and gentlemen, the report is complete. Yuri Anatolyevich, are you insisting on your amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u245	Don't you insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u246	Who's gone?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u247	Don't you insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u248	I'll be right I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u249	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u250	I'd like to, I'm sorry, I'd like to say more, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u251	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u252	That the Cabinet of Ministers has also taken into account the conclusions of our Chief Legal Authority and the very adoption of this law will make it impossible for some to be accountable for the regulator of our farmers and this will improve the Insurance Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u253	Dear colleagues, I'll put it to a vote, but please. “The final position” that this law takes effect from the day it was published, not from January 1, because the term expired. “It shall take effect from the date of its publication”. FROM THE ZALU A compromise is possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u254	Huh? BY AWAKE! WRITER IN AUSTRALIA
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u255	What? What?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u256	It was an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u257	Well, the committee doesn't think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u258	But the Cabinet of Ministers accepted these comments and determined that this law could be adopted. This is true of the agricultural market.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u259	Honorable National MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u260	As far as voluntary insurance is concerned.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u261	I am voting on the proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Insurance Act. [[This law takes effect from the day it was published.]] Please vote. Please vote. [[13:36:22]] For-136 The decision is not taken. I would be willing to vote on the second reading of the draft Act. [[Registration number 3248]] [[13:36:45]] For-146 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, the draft Law on the Credit Association Deposit Guarantee Fund (registration number 3265) is under review. Well, let's see, dear fellows, there'll be other proposals now. Well, we'll break everything. I beg you, I'm ready to put it to the vote. I'll put it to a vote so there won't be any charges. And in a bag. [[th m in s a l i]] About right now. [[th m in s a l i]] I'm talking about moving on to right now. Yes, honourable national deputies, the draft Law on the Fund for Guaranteeing Credit Sharing Investments is under review. [[Registration number 3265]] Everybody calm down and let's work. There's an offer. So let's think about a simplified procedure so that we can think about another question. I'm voting on this proposal to consider the bills before the first reading on a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:38:07]] For-129 The decision is not taken. Please, let's get to the bottom of this. We'll consider today the deployment of a peacekeeping contingent if we get there. Please, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u262	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear National Deputies! I'd like to say right now for the general problem that arose in the first one. In the first row of the financial services market, one component is credit unions that have become one of the most vulnerable chains because, unfortunately, we have not made the right decisions in the last two years to improve the situation in this particular financial services market. So if you look at the overall trend in international financial markets, 97 countries in the world, with a total of more than 54,000, and 186 million people, unfortunately, we have only 70 in Ukraine since 1992. 780 credit unions in all parts of our country and a population of about 2 million people. In terms of assets, they're now over 4 billion dollars. As far as the branches are concerned, it is about 2,000 of these branches throughout Ukraine, i.e. each territory of Ukraine has credit unions. They're roughly formed into three all-U.S. credit associations, as well as 24 local credit associations and a deposit protection program. During its existence in Ukraine, especially in the context of the ongoing systemic financial crisis in Ukraine, credit unions were and remain virtually the only real mechanism for lending small businesses and farmers, financial support for the development of territorial communities and professional communities, social adaptation, and the wide range of low-income populations. Thus, in Ukraine credit unions have become a very important social factor and one of the basic pillars of economic and financial stability. At the same time, the basis for the existence of credit unions is mutual trust, I would like to stress once again the mutual trust of participants and the State's guarantee of protection in the context of a financial and economic crisis, a political and governmental crisis, which has also become a very nutritious background for the vast number of fraudsters and the inaction of law enforcement agencies, which I would also call criminal. And sometimes the direct indulgences that have enabled millions of citizens in Ukraine to cheat, allowing them to own their numerous investments and expenses. A particularly tightening situation took place during a financial crisis, as part of the credit unions have problems with liquidity and are not properly calculated with their investors. On the other hand, Ukraine does not have a mechanism to compensate citizens for lost deposits that have been deposited in credit unions. It is possible to resolve the issue of guaranteeing the deposits of credit companies if a bill on the Deposit Guarantee Fund is adopted under number 3265, which I propose. Once a decision has been taken on the establishment of a fund at the level of law by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine or the regulator, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the appropriate regulatory and regulatory framework should be prepared and adopted to ensure the organisational and functional establishment of the fund and to achieve the level of financial reserve that is adequate for credit unions in the market to the amount of the claimed compensation. The bill lays down the principles for the operation of the Fund to guarantee the contributions of members of credit unions, the order of reimbursement of the contributions of members of credit unions, and regulates the relationship between the Fund, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the authorized authority for regulating financial services markets. According to the bill, the fund is a state-owned specialized institution that acts as a public administration in the field of guaranteeing the contributions of members of credit unions. In its activities, the Fund is governed by the Constitution of Ukraine, valid legislation and action on the basis of the Regulation on the Fund to Guarantee Contributions of Members of Credit Associations, which is approved in turn by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the authorized authorities. Members of the Credit Association Deposit Guarantee Fund are primarily credit unions that are included in the State Register of Financial Institutions, which is run by an authorised authority, and are licensed to carry out activities involving members of the credit union's contribution to deposit accounts. Participation in the Credit Association Fund is mandatory. The Fund shall issue legal and regulatory acts relating to its powers, which are binding on the Fund's participants, including the establishment of mandatory standards for Fund participants, requirements for participants for their membership in the Fund, which shall be established by the Fund's legal acts. The bill includes the reporting order of the fund, the formation of funds, and the use of fund funds for the use of funds. First of all, it's about funding. It is the credit unions that make the first contribution of 1 percent of the total amount of deposits to their account. Further funding is provided by credit unions and is not needed. State budget funding. Although in the first edition of my proposal, it was set up for the Cabinet. Ministers of the first contribution of 50 million dollars, as was the case with the National Bank of Ukraine’s Fund for Guaranteeing the Investments of Individuals. But unfortunately, on the advice of our Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, we are. I deleted that rule. Convinced that the establishment of a state-wide system of guaranteeing the contributions of members of credit unions is a topic that is politically relevant to the socially sensitive especially in today’s world. The socio-economic conditions of Ukraine. Moreover, the very fact that such a decision is made today, even if it is still implemented in a relatively long time, will have a significant psychological effect and will have a positive effect on the mood and behaviour of credit card investors, and above all will allow it. they are exhausted and lost, including the State's guilt. I would also like to point out that the concept of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine since June-month 2006 has also adopted this concept of settling and creating the Fund to guarantee the contributions of members of credit unions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u263	Dear colleagues, the report is complete. Please sign up for the question. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u264	Vladimir Karpuk, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Alexander Ivanovich, a really good law that touches many people, contributes to their social protection, but you're talking about the concept that was in 2006, and we're about to adopt this law against the financial crisis and the situation that happened in the credit service market. A lot of people have actually lost a lot of money. Why did this happen? Why Was It Not Predicted? Is there, in your opinion, a reason why this law is adopted after it has taken place?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u265	Thank you. I would like to report and thank you for the questions, because, in my opinion, they contain either a delay or a degree of inactivity, including us, the national MPs. But I would like to point out that when we adopted the Financial Sector Support Act in October 2008 and when we adopted the Refinancing Act and additional measures as anti-crisis, I personally made a proposal to look into other markets of financial services that apply to members of credit unions. Sadly, only today have we come to this consideration. As for the concept, which was approved and approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of June 7, 2006 at number 321, it was also approved for the purpose of implementing the concept: it was necessary to create the necessary legislative and institutional conditions for the operation of the system of guaranteeing the contributions of members of credit unions. It seems to me that if we now go back to the positive decision and the adoption of this law, first of all, we will restore trust, second of all--
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u266	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u267	Thank you. Second, this situation will be more stable. Why: because, speaking for the banking market, it is now, in my opinion, and according to expert estimates, more vulnerable and liquidity is even lower than in credit cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u268	Stanislaw Arzhevtin, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u269	Alexander Ivanovich, you probably know the statistics that there are about 250 billion deposits in various forms in Ukraine today, and that's more than 10 in credit institutions. In credit unions today, a little bit, about one percent of these deposits. Your concept implies that for each group of financial market participants we should now create a state institution. This idea is about creating a State Guarantee Fund in the insurance market. Now we're looking at -- in the credit unions, it's likely that the pawnshops will also take this initiative and the other ten participants. We can have ten state institutions that will guarantee it. I have a question: is it not a better way for us to still have, given that we have a state institution, which is called the Population Investment Guarantee Fund, and we haven't been duplicating yet, without creating new institutions of state, or this institution to do it and hand over the authority here, or.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u270	Thank you. You know, I'm not afraid to use that word, but if I'm going to now call you that number of references to me, as to the National Deputy of Ukraine, as well as to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I'm going to even give you an example of when the members of the Regional Council of the Cherkas region have taken, even at their meeting of the session, a decision to address and to put into the agenda, for consideration by the Supreme Council, as a matter of urgency, this bill. Secondly, I wouldn't want us to be using some kind of discrimination about the market of financial services, just like credit unions. Look, we are today guaranteeing the depositors 150,000 returns. This law provides for a total of five thousand returns to the unprotected groups themselves. Now, please tell me, as a former banker, who today can come out of the body and take credit to the bank without a proper mortgage and so on? It can only be one credit institution, like credit unions, and the other is pawnshops, which we have also passed the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u271	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u272	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Alexander Ivanovich, you said that, on the advice of the scientific and expert management, you had eliminated the initial funding of the fund at 50 million dollars in contributions from the State Budget. I wanted to ask you: how did you delete that, because we're looking at it in the first reading and you're financially and economically based on this, this is the initial funding of 50 million dollars. What do you mean, we're gonna delete it? Maybe you're going to do it, so say it. And the second question. I'm sorry, I still have time. And the second question is, please tell me, do you have statistics, and how much money has been set up today by credit unions? Because you yourself said that there were cases of fraud, it turns out, no less than when these sad-known trusts appeared in the 1990s that actually took people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u273	Thank you. As for statistics, I would like to point out that it is the credit unions that are always looking through their associations, that is, the national credit unions, they are looking for a clean-up, that is. And they themselves try to regulate this market so that the level of trust in them is constantly renewed. It's just an offer. The introduction of this bill and its adoption will also allow the State to guarantee the return of the stakes at the level of five thousand for which I have spoken. As for 50 million, yes, indeed, I'm the author, as the subject of the legislative initiative, it was my initiative, I'd like it if we took it on the first reading to save it. But as for the starting fund, we've foreseen in this bill to make one percent. One percent, it's a year's credit union itself that directs these funds to regulatory capital. And about. If you don't have enough money. And so, so, the challenges that today are in this market, and that's out of their liquidity, I think we're going to gradually overcome them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u274	Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u275	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Dear Alexander Ivanovich, in the territory of Ukraine, it has happened that credit unions are a kind of MMM. I can give you an example of Poltavščina to explain when the credit unions “Acord”, “Lubno”, “The Prosperity of Poltavščina” to some extent and others have stolen the money itself. At first, huge percentages were declared, then stolen, and they were gone, and that's a huge human problem. I don't understand why we have to form a State Deposit Guarantee Fund and at the expense of the State Budget to make up for what these people stole. I think that the very role of the state is that it is, first of all, that this fund be made up of those who form this association, those who abuse human money and so on. And the role of the State today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u276	Thank you, Mr. Sergei. As I pointed out in my report that the first contributions at the same percentage level, as well as 0.25 percent twice a year, would be the funds that would be channelled to market participants themselves. What is the most important, important role the State has to play in this process? First. When we adopt this law and this body is created as a specialized state organization, two representatives from the Cabinet of Ministers, two representatives from the authorized body and one representative from the credit institutions have to lead the very direction of this fund. And so an extraordinary role on the part of the state, first of all, it's going to be control. And with regard to the inadequacy and inhospitable advertising that you say, it is very clear in all markets of financial services when they offer dividends that motivate and motivate both law enforcement and control organs to take advantage of these fraud schemes. Because of what? Because there is no authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u277	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u278	The mechanism. That those credit unions and institutions that will be marked as temporary and will not be guaranteed by the State, it is the citizens, first of all as consumers, who will monitor it. And, of course, in those financial institutions, they will study more closely the conditions under which they are offered to keep their contributions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m0.u279	Ladies and gentlemen, the time for answering your questions is over. The suggestion is to continue, actually, the 16-hour bill. We won't be able to make it through the full program, you know, even if we're 15. So, the proposal is, dear colleagues, we will continue to consider this at the evening meeting. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
