ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:53]] The 410 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our colleagues. Olga Borisovna's bodyguard, she's got a Jubilee. Let us sincerely welcome good health and great success in life. And also the Socs of Alexander Alexandrovich. Let us also welcome our colleague. () [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meetings on February 18, 2010. Twenty-eight issues of the agenda have been considered. As a result of the review: 1 law and 4 decrees were passed, 7 bills were passed on the basis, 1 bill was returned to the subject of the legislative initiative, 1 bill was returned to the committee for redrafting, 6 bills and 4 draft regulations were rejected. According to the President of Ukraine's proposals: 1 law has been passed with partial consideration of the President's proposals, 1 law has been passed by the President's veto, 1 law, 1 law has been rejected. Honorable national MPs, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, take 30 minutes on Friday to announce their requests. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Victor SLAUTI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the National Bank of Ukraine on the restructuring of the credit debt of the Open Shareholder Society "Cagarlic Sugar Plant" of the Kyiv region in front of the Bank of Kiev. Mr. Vladimir DANILEN to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the lack of funding to pay a one-time fee to 212 women in the Suman region who are assigned the honorary title of "Mother Hero" and to explain the reasons for the failure to comply with the Ukrainian Presidential Decree. Ms. Eugene ZARKOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting as Head of the Ukrainian State Property Fund, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the illegal privatization of the Odeska Kinostadija Closed Shareholder Society. Eugene KARJKOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Prosecutor of Kiev for the construction of a restaurant and an underground parking lot on the street of Prozni in Kiev. MICHELLA TO THE U.S. MINISTER’S OFFICE FOR THE ACCIDENTAL SITUATION OF DESTRUCTION IN THE TERNOPIL REGION, IN PARTICULARLY IN TERROPIL. Oleksa ZARUBINSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the adoption by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of pre-emptive measures aimed at minimizing the negative effects of the forecast flood this spring. Oleg TYCHENKA to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine for an improper examination of the parliamentary appeal of the inhabitants of the village of Rusanów Brovarski district of Kyiv district for violations of the rights of social workers in the exercise of the legal right to obtain free property rights in the Land Areas of Long. Alexander KEMENYASA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for urgent action to ensure that the constitutional rights of representatives of national minorities are respected in the process of independent external evaluation. Alexander KEMENYACHA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for clarification regarding the further use of the military city’s property complex No. 77 in the village of Dercen Mučakov district of Zakarpatsk. Mr. Paul TUTCHANA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the preservation of the Ukrainian Academy Theatre "Bereginina". Ms. KRAPOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine, on the misconduct of officials of the Labour Administration and the social protection of the population of the Executive Committee of the Ingulatsky District Council of Krivi Rig. Jury KRUKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, for the award of firearms and the assignment of ion names over the years. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the State Committee on Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, acting as Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine on the cessation of corruption and other violations of Ukrainian current legislation on the part of the Odessa City Authority in the advertising market in Odessa. [[KOSTUSIVA, KORJA, and others. Total 11 deputies]] Anatoly of MATVIENKA to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the verification of violations of Ukraine's territorial integrity by members of Crime Donbas-Russia. Victor PAVLENKA to the Minister for Industrial Policy of Ukraine, acting as Head of the Ukrainian State Property Fund, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the situation surrounding the establishment of the State Commercial Enterprise "Resource Science and Technology". Ms. Alexander ŠEPELEVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of measures to address the problem of the supply of drinking water to residents of the Luhansk region. VOLADIMIR JAVORIYSKI to the executive responsibility of the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine for a new adventurous increase in fares for private Kiev road taxis, leading to the deterioration of the Chinese and then the economic collapse in Kiev. Edward PRUTNIK, Acting Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Head of the State Treasury of Ukraine, Acting Head of the Supreme Audit and Audit Office of Ukraine, Deputy Head of the Montenegrin District Administration, for the re-appealing of the deputy of the Chernigian District Council of Natalia Kucherovska for the under-receiving of the City of Knine Grants from the State Budget for the sum of 1 million 302 thousand dollars and subsidies from the district budget for the amount of 14,000 dollars, which has created a credit debt for the beginning of 2010, and a return of 169 payment orders for the general and special funds for the total amount of 762.5 thousand dollars. Mr. Eduard PRUETNIK to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine regarding the verification of the facts set out in the reference to the "Information Agency for Information Investigations" and the application of the response measures provided for in the Act. Igor KALETNIKA to the first Deputy Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Head of the National Tax Administration of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine on the criminalization of the former head of the government of the State Shareholder Company, The Bread of Ukraine, Inga Vršinina for systematic abuse of official status, possession, loss of state property, the promotion of illegal alienation of state property, the granting of illegal advantages to business entities. Igor KALETNIKA to the first Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Prosecutor General of Ukraine for the use of urgent measures to stop the criminal activity of the head of Southwestern Railways, Alexia Krivopišin, and to bring him to criminal responsibility for systematic abuse of duty, the theft of state funds, their purposeless use, the promotion of illegal alienation of state property, the granting of illegal advantages to business entities. Igora SHAROVA to the Ministry of Regional Development and Construction of Ukraine regarding the provision of information on plans and actions for 2010 to address the housing problem of investors who have suffered damage as a result of the activities of the Elita Centre building group. Oleksa ZARUBINSKI to the Minister of Coal Industry of Ukraine on the distribution of social guarantees of the Ukrainian Mining Labour Act to employees of geological exploration expeditions and other persons employed in underground jobs. Alexia KOSTUSJEVA to the Ministry of the Ukraine on family, youth and sports regarding the reconstruction of the ice-skate Križinka and the construction of a modern ice-cold complex in Odessa. THE Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, was asked to examine the reasons for the abolition of the law enforcement authorities regarding the Kyiv State Enterprise Izumrud. Jury CARMAZIN to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Head of the State Committee on Land Resources, the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the verification of the abuse of his official office and the overriding of official powers by officials of the Bucharest Village Council, the gross violation by the designated authority of local government of land, forest and environmental law enforcement in the exercise of its powers to dispose of the land of the territorial community of the village of Butch Kyiv district, the transfer of the relevant land of municipal property to the property of citizens and legal persons, and the removal of their property from the land of municipal property, the inaction of officials of the procurator of the Kyiv region, on the basis of the question, the use of appropriate measures of citizens and legal persons responsible for the prosecution and the imposition of legal action. Adam MARTINJUK to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to prevent the destruction of archive documents related to the activities of the UN-UPA in relation to the Department of Archives of the Ukrainian Security Service. The Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine on the need for a thorough investigation of the deliberate liability of the Society's limited liability to the "Lan 2000" of the Corsun-Shevchenk region of the Cherkas region, to the Society with limited responsibility for the "APK-Services" of its former head, to cause property damage to the society in particular large scale, and the need for this person to be brought to criminal responsibility. Mr. Vladimir DANILENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the conduct of an examination by the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine of the facts of illegal possession of property by the cooperative private-producer agricultural cooperative Agro-firma Sinjka and compliance with Ukrainian legislation with the head of the cooperative. To the Attorney General of Ukraine, Vladimir YAVORIYSKO, on the illegal attempt of the Kyiv City State Administration to evict the House of Actors, which means further extermination of the spiritual culture from the center of Kiev. [[Vul. Jaroslav’s Val, 7]] GREGORY to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of the alienation of Ukraine’s Ministry of Defence and the abuse of officials who have caused significant damage to the state. John ZAJIJA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of citizens’ rights to privatize homes in Winnitzi’s hostel. Caterina VASCHUK to the Attorney General of Ukraine on ensuring the objectivity and legal rights of the resident of the city of Petihatka in the Dnipropetrov district of Igor Garkavenk during the investigation and investigation of a criminal case. Petra PISTARCHUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the investigation of a criminal case involving the theft of a collection of paintings by a well - known Ukrainian artist, Gregory Smolski. Petra PISTARCHUCA to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the investigation of crimes involving the destruction of churches in Lviv. Ulysses MOSTIPAN to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the improper examination of the parliamentary appeal for the verification of the legality of the actions of officials of the Department of State Executive Services of the General Administration of Justice of the City of Kiev and the Kiev Regional Road Administration for the enforcement of judicial decisions in favour of the Open Shareholder Association of the "Rockitnian Special Career" of the Kyiv Region. Jury CARMAZINA to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the improper response to the appeal of the Ukrainian National Deputy on the fact that the land of the Carpathian Mountains, belonging to the Ukrainian people, was seized by official officials of the State authorities and the local self-governance of the Zakarpatsky region, the inaction and possible corruption of the former Prosecutor of the Rakhiv region, the use of measures to return illegally removed land to state ownership and the involvement of guilty persons in the responsibility. Igor ŠAROV to the Head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the untimely performance of residential and utility services to the capital in the area of the elimination of the consequences of the winter disaster. Alexander ŠEPELEVA to Kiev’s city head on urgent measures to prevent a deterioration in drinking water quality in Kiev. Andrija PARUBIA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal release of the employees of the Open Shareholders Association Pavlogradjilstro, the Limited Responsibilities Society, the Boudmaster Door Factory, and the Limited Responsibilities Society, the Boudmeister Building Factory, and the humiliation of their national honour and dignity on the part of the owners of enterprises. [[Pavlovgrad Dnipropetrovsk oblast]] Thus, honourable national deputies, 69 parliamentary inquiries have been made. Dear National Deputies! You have a schedule for today. In addition, I inform you, my fellow countrymen, that the National Deputy of Ukraine, Janukovitch Viktor Fedorović, has applied to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the appointment of the National Deputy of Ukraine. There is a decision by the committee on this subject and there is a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Yanukovič Viktor Fedorovich. [[Registration number 6093]] Dear colleagues! In accordance with article 222 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in the event of a request by the Ukrainian national deputy with a personal application for a permanent suspension of the powers of the committee, i.e. the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, should consider this matter and make an appropriate draft regulation on this subject. The necessary documents have been received. Human resources doesn't need, as you know, respectable colleagues, to be included in the agenda. So we have every reason to put this question to a vote. No objections? I put to the vote a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the permanent suspension of the powers of Ukrainian national deputy Yanukovič Viktor Fedorović. [[Registration number 6093]] I'll read out the application, draft order. According to article 81, part two, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: To suspend the term of office of Ukrainian national deputy Yanukovič Viktor Fedorovic, elected in a multi-mandate national constituency, the Party of Regions, in connection with his personal application for parliamentary powers. Please vote. [[10:19:41]] For 242 Decision taken. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the granting of public service status to medical, pedagogical and scientific teachers]] National MPs Oleg Alexanderovich Zarubinsky, Yuri Volodymyrovich Prokopovich, report. The Coroner is the first deputy head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Bodnar Olga Borisovna. Please, Oleg Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, representatives of the media! Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. At the beginning of my speech and presentation of the draft law, I'm going to do a very small one, but I'm going to take a tour of the history of this issue. Medicalians and educators in pre - revolutionary Russia have been much more socially protected than they are today. All because their professions were integrated into a complex scheme, a complex system of public service, to participate and to be subject to honor and confidence in tomorrow. Today the experience of countries like France, where at the end of the 1990s, out of 7.5 million government officials, 1 million worked in the field of public education, 840,000 in the area of health. The experience of the United States of America, Germany, Japan, has shown virtually all Scandinavian countries that the status of a public official for doctors and teachers is a norm that not only harms but helps to develop harmoniously in the state. Opponents of the state’s equalization in the single legal status are intimidated by the strength of government officials in the country, who seem to be being paid for by the left side of the budget. Help. In fact, the percentage of government officials in Ukraine is relatively small, and we have 4.5 percent of the working population have this status as government officials. And in the European Union states, to which everyone claims to be integrated, this percentage varies from 14 percent to 30 percent. By the way, for the sake of interest, Denmark's record, where government officials, their share, is 30.4 for the working population. And at the end of the little tour. The clear position that comes from the world experience and our experience of the Austro-Hungarian and Russian Empire is that all employees working for the state are to be government officials. But in order to do that, we need to change the principle of understanding the public service, not as a privilege, as a public service, but as a form of employment and a form of pension. Thus, the appropriateness of the adoption of the Ukrainian Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the granting of the status of civil servant to medical, pedagogical and scientific and pedagogical workers is due to the need to increase the level of material security and social security for medical, pedagogical and scientific personnel paid from the national budget of Ukraine, with a view to improving the conditions of social protection for such workers, improving the prestige of such professions, overcoming the problem of human resources provision for educational institutions, health institutions, especially in rural areas. I especially emphasize the prestige of these professions, for some understand this legislative idea only as a one - time increase in payments or material aid. It's not only about the need to improve the social and material conditions of these categories, it has to be about a very different status -- about the prestige of these people, because today, dear colleagues, no one is surprised when the red-graduates are those who have completed the teaching colleges, are going to work as secretaries, and for them this profession is much more prestigious than the teacher's profession. And it's not just a matter of material position, it's a question of moral prestige, it's a question of prestige, it's a question of respect for people who perform a public function, unlike many government officials today. It's not a paphos, it's true, because if we rely on doctors who are funded by the state budget, if we rely on teachers, we have the most important public function of teachers -- the formation of a healthy and educated member of society, then they should be government officials. I know the comments that are before this bill, often, they're right. I want to answer some of them, because I understand that we can improve, polish, correct this bill in preparing it for the first reading. But I would like to point out that the question of assigning these categories to the status of civil servant began to be considered in 1995, but it still hasn't moved away, so far it hasn't even started a discussion on this issue. And that's why I think that adoption today in the first reading of this bill, in the first, I emphasize that this is going to be an impetus, an incentive for both discussion and substantive amendments. Hence, some of the most common or popular observations. Management, including science and expertise. Some colleagues, the profile committee, by the way, note that comparing these categories with government officials “will take away their rights, in particular the ban on entrepreneurship”. [[quote]] That's what I want to answer. As far as entrepreneurship is concerned, doctors and educators are concerned. First, looking for additional work is a sign of dissatisfaction with one's social status and material wealth. I think that's understandable. Comparing rights with civil servants will improve the well - being of educators and health - care professionals and thereby reduce interest in finding additional wages. And it's an axiom, there's nothing to prove here. But there's an important and second point that they don't pay attention to. An article referred to by those who say that this would be contrary to the Anti-Corruption Act, in fact, article 5 contains an exception that allows public officials to engage in, quote, “scientific, teaching, creative activity, and medical practice”. Given that the main subset of these categories is tutoring or counterfeiting in private clinics, the narrowing of rights does not take place, as we see. In addition, this standard will help to increase the professional qualities of the categories mentioned by allowing them to find work in the field where they work, not on the side for primitive additions. The next observation, right, is the serious one that needs to be discussed: the failure to resolve this project's main problem is material security, i.e. the size of the pay and socio-economic security of government officials of different categories of office depends on the organizational and legal level of the body and can be lower than the material security conditions of the doctor or teacher. I'll answer that right away. The need to establish, at the legislative level, what categories of civil servants are going to be referred to as medical and scientific teachers, is indeed correct. But to fully implement it, it requires proposals, thorough work from relevant ministries, professional ministries: the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Health, to provide teachers and doctors from their positions, depending on the level of the educational or medical institution, the corresponding categories of public officials, so that the matter can be resolved when preparing the project for second reading. Another important observation is that it seems that the project reduces vacations and increases the workload of teachers and doctors for a week. I say, with regard to the observation that teachers are now on vacation for 56 days and 17 hours of work, it is worth noting that the project does not cancel the benefits that are applied in the professional laws that teachers and doctors do not cancel, will look at the text. Another question is that once again, you need the work of ministries that would allow you to fit the rules of both laws so that the rights of these categories are not restricted. And these are supposed to improve the project during the second reading procedure. I would like to stress once again that the question of the granting of state status, the status of civil servant to those categories of our population, to our citizens who are doing a state function, this is not only a logical question, it is a question, I take it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u3	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u4	This is a question, considering how teachers live today. What is their attitude? Bad attitude. Because I want to tell you that more and more often your students and your children can tell you this, they ask you this question: Why are you, Mary Ivanovna, or Ivan Petrovich, so smart, why are you so poor? And there is no answer to that question. Because they weren't poor in pre-revolution Russia. Because they had great status, they could support six children, with the wife of a high school teacher not working. I ask you to support this bill in the first reading, seriously refine it to the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u5	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u6	It's a different way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u7	Yuri Volodymyrovich Prokopchuk, please. Oh, I'm sorry, the question. Excuse me. Please sign up for the questions, dear colleagues. Mikola Petrovich Kruglov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u8	Dear reporter, please tell me how you're going to handle this. Schools and hospitals are communal property, district, district. Financing them as government officials is from the State Budget. It's actually going to be such a venegret. To date, rural councils are being held up, they're funding -- district councils, now there's going to be a state. Now we're in the State Budget to solve questions and give money to finance doctors, teachers, and so forth. How are you going to do that?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u9	Thank you for asking. That's a good question. The only thing you've admitted to yourself, is a respected colleague who is now with funding, and in general with the status and the hospitals, and the educational institutions, is a total venegretta. I'm offering to end this venigret. This is the first position. Second position. If we leave the status, and actually the anti-status of today's teachers and teachers, and the medics at that level, it's not going to be a venegret, it's going to be nothing, it's going to be nowhere. Because our children are brought up and taught by teachers. And our children are starting to disrespect them, first. Secondly, if we want to implement a key function of maintaining and preserving our health from the medical community, it is obvious that the state should be concerned about this. And obviously the left-hand side and focus should be exactly about financing the state of these institutions. I'm going to say again, maybe you'll take it as an imagery or a pompousness. But if there's a venigret, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u10	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u11	Vladimir Yavorowski. Mr. Zarubinski, of course, is a strong move, a move that has long since come. I think it's one of the disgraceful paradoxes of Ukrainian beings in general, the Law on Civil Servants. Because I'm convinced that a Ukrainian officer, I'm not talking about military service, a larger civil servant, or, say, a teacher, or, say, the same doctor who saves the health of the nation, and another who saves the minds of the nation, are much more beneficial to Ukraine than the armada of officials from Kiev to the district center, or even to the village itself. Because of this, of course, it's some horrible peroxide that's found in our deformed Ukrainian society. My question to you is this: I have thought about this at all, and perhaps it would be more radical and perhaps even smarter, to some extent, if I were to impose a moratorium on today's Act on State Service and Officials. I think it would be much more appropriate in a time of crisis.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u12	I agree to 100 percent with everything you've said. The only thing I have to comment on is that this issue has now arisen, in fact, the bill was registered in the Supreme Council, and I want to stress this, in 2008. And what he's now going to the session hall, that's largely the result, that's the product of awareness by well-known politicians, influential politicians of what needs to be done. State officials need to make public people. And during the election campaign, I don't want to call it a name, but actually all the participants, and as they once said in the left and right sectors, publicly, I emphasize, publicly, repeatedly stated that this status would be assigned to those categories. It was on the billboards, it was during television broadcasting and so on, I'm not ironic, and you know I'm not blasphemous, as I say, it's very good that all the influential politicians realized that it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u13	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u14	It's literally ten seconds. Don't think I'm coming out of the question. As for the public service, I started by saying that the public service in a normal civilized country is not a system of privileges, it's not a closed club where teachers and doctors don't let go, by the way. And that's quite different, it's a system that ensures the functioning of the public service, the people who do it, they do the government function.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u15	Paul Mokchan, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u16	Dear Mr. Oleg, we are all aware that the role of the teacher, especially in the countryside, in those depressing areas that I have actually turned into the whole rural sphere, had the status of this civil servant. I think there should be some other preference, so I'm asking you. If in postwar times the state has even managed to provide fuel, there are benefits. Today, when teachers and doctors, especially in the village, were deprived of the right to privatize pies, which can also be done for those who can save the village, because where the school, where the medic is, is still being preserved and the national life is heating up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u17	You've already said what you can do, I just want to point out one thing. If someone thinks that today is not the time to develop education because the economy, first of all, has to be alert, then I would like to remind or turn to the world’s experience. I don't think that in Japan's World War II victory or Korea destroyed, South Korea today, conditions were better than we have today. But they made an education wager, not in the capital, but in small towns and in our language in the villages, it's not really a village. They've made an education bet and they've won the future, and today they're showing all those who don't pay so much attention to education that their rate of development, their potential, their resources are much more dynamic, much more serious. So I think we need to do everything we can to make this happen. And what you're saying about the rural area, I think both the teacher and the country medical needs this status.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u18	Mikola Kravchenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u19	Oleg Alexandrovich, I'm going to continue your thinking, you've begun to decipher the concept of the service. The concept of a service is, in principle, a system of restrictions, if taken in large ways. This raises the question of whether, because there are contradictions in society, even among teachers, doctors, these categories of people will positively accept the system of restrictions that we impose. And most of all. You have heard from the report that as soon as we bring this category of people into the ranks of civil servants, they immediately have material well-being. I'd like to know from what? At the same time, you didn't say what mechanisms? You didn't say what rank they'd be assigned? And most of all. What can people do in two and a half years' time to retire? If such a law is adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u20	Thank you for the professional question. I think I'll just start at the end. For people who are pre-pensive, if we make the right decision today, and then when we prepare for the second reading, their status and their capabilities will be much greater, just for this category it definitely works. What about what you said about rank? It was during my speech that I spoke about the fact that this was not the subject of this law. Perhaps it should be the subject of this law. But I think that such a subject of the legislative initiative is one of only three, which is like the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. With the help of the Ministry of Education, both the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Health, to become a real subject of the legislative initiative, which, between the first and the second readings based on serious calculations, based on, by the way, and including public hearings, on the basis of, I think, committee hearings in Parliament have a proposal for rankings and doctors, and teachers depending on your position, you are absolutely right, depending on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u21	Yes, Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine People's Self-Defense"
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u22	Vladimir Karpuk, deputy group "for Ukraine!", party "Our Ukraine". Of course, this bill has long been there and several have been able to be introduced into the hall. The first bill of 1451 of 29.01.2008 was passed entirely by the People’s Deputies of the Philippines. And really, I approve of your desire to improve the social status and social protection of medical, educational workers. Yet many questions are raised. Why and what is different about a scientific worker who works in a higher educational institution, a private institution that also works for the state. Why is there no increase in the work of culture and social workers? How can you be a social worker? As a matter of pension insurance, there's a deadline to be worked out for the public service. You know that in medicine, 20 percent of people, or more in some medical institutions, and especially in rural areas, work in harmony. 25 percent of the people are retired.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u23	Please, Oleg Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u24	Thank you so much for asking that question. In fact, you have shown that you have something to offer for the second reading. By the way, when this bill was being tabled, there was some discussion about cultural workers and I think it would be quite fair that for certain categories of these citizens this law should also be implemented and I think it might be a matter of discussion when preparing for a second reading in a profile committee. I agree, more than that, we've talked about it. About what you're saying about how to implement this law, well, I think we should all be interested. I want to say again, without irony, I'm saying that all the politicians who won, who lost, who were wandering, didn't talk about what was to be done, said it publicly, proved it, with serious argument, including the acting President of Ukraine. So I think we should all unite to vote in the first reading for this bill and yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u25	Thank you. Time's up. Please sit down. Yuri Volodymyrovich Prokopchuk for Bill 3155-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u26	Yuri Prokopchuk, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. A respected chairman, respected colleagues, respected physicians, and educators. Indeed, the time has come when this proud node, which exists long ago in the state, needs or solves the legitimate way and does not speculate on this issue, or to bring our legislation, including with regard to both medics and educators, into a race that would not allow anyone, and ever again, to use these categories of deserving people in their political speculations. And that is, when we talk about the difference between the bill previously reported by Oleg Zarubinski, and the bill that we are introducing with Victor Schwetz, the main difference between these bills is the issue that has already been raised here. Does the status of a public official need teachers and doctors? Are social guarantees needed, the security they will have as a result of the adoption of this bill, namely, Bill 3155-1, entitled “To Change Certain Laws of Ukraine ”? [[on the expansion of social guarantees for health care workers, educational institutions and public property education]] This is the answer to the question again. Not by dividing people into categories when asked how to be with our librarians, how to be with those or other fields of medicine, with areas of education. And the purpose of the adoption of the Ukrainian Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, as well as the project, is to raise the level of material security and extend the social guarantees of these categories of budget workers. [[on the expansion of social guarantees for health care workers, educational institutions and public education institutions, and the precise, and municipal form of ownership]] Unlike Bill 3155, my colleague, Sweden, and I deliberately propose not to extend the status of civil servants to health workers, educational institutions, public and municipal property education institutions, since such an expansion of the concept of public service will require a radical change in the vast array of legislation that now consists of the State Service Institute and substantial additional costs from the State budget of Ukraine, which are to be directed towards reforming the public service system itself. The essence of the project is to provide state social guarantees in part concerning wages, pensions, various assistance and social guarantees. This question is completely solved, and it is this status that completely solves all the questions raised in this room. Indeed, including many meetings with doctors and teachers, they themselves realize that a status that is only status limits their rights. Ukraine's current legislation imposes a series of special requirements and restrictions on government officials, which are directly linked to their implementation of state-owned powers. Well, we know. For example, the prohibition on civil servants to fight, including their rights, such as strikes, and so forth. The extension of these requirements and restrictions on public medical, pedagogical, and other institutions is not, in our view, justified and will result in an unjustified narrowing of their rights. The extension of the status of civil servants to health - care workers, educational institutions, public property education institutions may result in a reduction in the statutory length of leave and working hours of medical and pedagogical workers. In education, for example, a 56-day vacation. In the Law on State Service, this leave is a maximum of 45 days, depending on the benefits and so on and so forth. I mean, there's a limit. In education there's also an 18-hour working week, unlike what government officials have. Which sometimes, of course, they even say to them: “You don’t have a day’s work, you have a day’s service.” So serve there as much as you can guide. Instead, the draft law that we have drafted proposes that the concept of the State Service should be extended to the social guarantees of education and health workers by extending the material and socio-economic security features provided for by the Ukrainian Public Service Act, namely: pension insurance, increased material security, including the annual payment of material assistance to address social and economic issues, etc. The project makes it clear that such an extension does not in any way limit other rights provided for by law. In addition, the legislator has already used this approach to improve the conditions of material security and to raise the social standards of individual categories of workers, such as forensic experts in 1994. Another important point is the limited budgetary capacity of Ukraine. Nevertheless, the State must find an opportunity to encourage workers in these professions. If, for example, we talk separately about doctors, separately about educators, which, of course, I'm not going to be expanding like that right now, so to speak, so that we don't take too long. But what is an emergency doctor, a surgeon, a traumatologist, a gynecologist today? This is a person who can't get away from his phone. It is a person who is about to come to the aid of another person. And so, of course, it's nothing like a public service. Again, once again, I would like to point out that the Law on State Service itself severely limits the rights and social guarantees of these people. Despite the fact that the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law amending certain laws on the extension of social security for health care workers, educational institutions and institutions of public and municipal property education entails an increase in the salaries of educational and health workers, as well as the additional costs of the State budget to increase the social protection of workers in these areas, I note that the salaries of such workers are currently paid at the expense of government funds, with a small number of pensioners from the above-calculated categories of workers, which is less than 1 million, the increase in the payment of higher pensions will amount to around 100-150 million dollars per year, which is less than 0.1 per cent of the total expenditure budget in the second half of 2010. So this tells us that there is a possibility in the state that, if it's good will with you, there is. So the adoption of Project 3155-1 will not lead to a substantial increase in budget expenditure, and the above amount is proposed to cover post-crisis overall growth of the economy and corresponding increases in revenues to the State budget of Ukraine. Colleagues, once again, I remind you that the number of the bill that was tabled by the national deputy of Sweden and me is 3155-1. Please be supportive. I would also like to say that this bill minimally traumatises the entire body of legislation that was previously worked on in relation to the public service, and only changes are made in fact to two articles, i.e. article 77, which deletes paragraph "h" and includes that the health and social and social security features of the state-owned property institutions are being extended to medical and pharmaceutical workers, and the provisions provided for in the Ukrainian State Service Act do not restrict other rights provided for in the law. And article 57, where appropriate changes are also made. So without at least, let's say, breaking the structure of all laws, we do a good thing for all medical and educational people. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question to Yuri Volodymyrovich. The recording, the honorary colleagues, is being held. Mikola Kulczynski, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u28	Mr. Jury, I'm going to tell you right away that I'm going to support your bill, because it's much more accurate and much more responsive to the aspirations and aspirations of the medical staff, the educators, but it's a matter of pension insurance. Don't you think it's time to stop the practice of extending those or other special categories to receive special pensions, and it's time to accept the reform of pension legislation so that we have, let's say, one law according to internships and earnings and, let's say, another law for the military because they have a specific law. Because we are constantly discrediting all Ukrainian citizens. We have 25 special pension laws while 95 percent of people have one law that greatly reduces their pension insurance. And by introducing everything new.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u29	Thank you. In fact, it's a long time for us to unify or, if you want to codify pension legislation, I completely agree. But this bill right over here, it settles these issues in time, because the wages of both doctors and teachers, of all educated people, they're going to be brought into this law, without giving a status that violates the rights of these people, they're going to be brought into what, in time, they're going to be settled. Right now, we're going to forget about those who worked hard, and that was, in fact, for the state, for those who received education, for those who received medical care. That's why I think it's temporary. It will exist, but, nevertheless, I think it just settles with time by this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u30	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u31	My dear colleague, frankly, I find it strange that you built a presentation of your bill -- at the criticism of who I was introducing. I think I have a lot of reason to criticize your bill first of all because it's an elementary repetition of Kabmin's allowances to individual employees. It's not about the benefits at all, understand. I know what a teacher and teacher’s work is: I was over 40 years old and worked as a simple teacher. For about 20 years, I have been associated with a higher school. So it's not a question of allowances, you know, it's a question of itself. It's a question of another status: moral, prestigious, state status. Understand that. And second moment. Well, you keep saying that the State Service Act will limit doctors and educators. You heard me when I presented the project. I denied it, and you keep saying the same thing. In the bill that I presented, there is no narrowing the privileges of doctors and educators, no such thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u32	Oleg Aleksandrovich, Your Honor. First of all, if you think I've criticized your bill, I want to say now that it's completely wrong, because I've been saying what the difference is. And without saying what the difference is, there is no subject at all. So I didn't mean it in any way, because we went along parallel paths so that, as they say, this law was born. But I told you about when, really -- and these remarks were from the hall, and from different factions -- that today, in order to bring exactly to your bill, it's going to take an array of all the legislative bases that apply to the public service to completely change. We're going to turn the whole public service over, as they say, upside down -- and then we're going to put it down again, or put it down, or whatever. That's what this is all about. And here, without injuring legislation, and in fact, as they say, doing well, doing what you had for your own purpose, which you had for your own purpose. For doctors and teachers, not only do they need the status, but they need the social guarantees that government officials have.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u33	Alexander Steshenko, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u34	Yuri Volodymyrovich, thank you for your honest conversation. You know, I'm also from a family of doctors, and my mom worked in a district hospital for 51 years. I know what this is about. I would very much not want us to act on principle as an authoritative international organization called Doctors Without Borders: to promise everything and everything. And you've taken up such a niche of conversation and it's very valuable. But in view of these two brief questions, please tell us what is the value of your bill and our colleague, who has just submitted to his bill, which, if there are such calculations? And now perhaps it is inappropriate for the rostrum to have a discussion with the author of the previous bill, which should be discussed outside the parliamentary rostrum. Is it possible to unify these two bills so that the hall is the only one in the sense that we want to do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u35	Thank you for asking. Well, as far as unification is concerned, what is the question? On that point, you said you could promise to draw for a long time. Adoption of Bill 3155-1, it is. In fact, the first reading, or the second reading, is the shortest way. Because we're not changing the entire legislative spectrum. If we start to change the entire body of state service legislation, it's going to take years, and the result isn't going to come from medicine or education. What's more, well, as far as the discussion is concerned, I think. How's it going? The truth is born in a dispute. Yeah, like the classics say. Well, not the Ukrainian writer Chekhov, but the classics say. And so I want to tell you that in any case you have to take everything better, what's there, what's there, and what's there, and what's there for the second reading to unite everything that's practical, what's good, what's healthy for this law to work so that the real and the medics and the educated get the social guarantees that they should have gotten long ago. Thank you. And the price of the question -- I said that according to experts -- is 100-150 million, 0.1 percent of the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u36	Yuri, Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u37	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Yuri Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u38	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u39	I've read your drafts carefully, and 3155 where it's written "before" and 3155, there you are with several other authors, here you are with Sweden. They're completely contradicting each other, but now that I've heard all three drafts, well, when I get to know all three of them, I get these questions. What about the changes to the Law on State Service? What do you propose to do, then, when you complete article 77 of the Law on the Basis of Health Legislation, only the state form of property of health workers and the municipal form of property? There's even more of them than the state's? We immediately put up a contradiction. And how do we predict this service, do we change the definition of the law “what is the public service ”?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u40	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. If you heard from my report, I pointed out that the state and municipal forms of property. Yes, there's a comparative table in this table, which you can see is what you're predicting about the state. State-owned property. Here, indeed, the omitted word “communal form of ownership” must be introduced to the second reading. Because this bill was preceded by a previous bill that my colleagues and I passed. This is Pierre, the medics, the helmet of Dmitry Vasilovich and others, and the woodwork and so on. But he was not registered because that was clearly the political situation. He's been doing some research for a long time. Now it's simple reports, and from other bills it's taken. And here is the only thing I agree with you that's missing a "communal form of property." I agree, and this is accepted, and the second reading will be introduced.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u41	Mikhail Papiev, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u42	Thank you. Your Honor, this is an important question and it's at your ear today. And first of all, when you report your own law, you don't have to tell a theory, which is based on the articles that are set out in your law. To be honest, out of 3.5 million budget workers, this law applies to 1,000 workers. Why? Because you have it written down that these are only educational and medical establishments of state-owned property. If you look at the laws, we have the Law on the Status of a State Official, or State Service, but there's another Act that you've forgotten about the status of officials of local self-government. Because 99.9 percent. We have institutions that have a communal form of ownership, where the State Service Act is not in force, but a completely different status is in force, and the status of officials of local self-government. And you need to keep people informed and say that this law is very raw.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u43	Thank you. As for the refinement, that's why the calculation, by the way, is economical, which applies to all urban, district, district hospitals and so on. Similarly to rural schools, urban schools are said to exist in us. So the calculation that I was talking about is 0.1 percent, which is going to be made of the State Budget from that output. I'll just give you the answer again, the one that I gave Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin, that this applies to all hospitals that are both educational and educational and medical institutions that are both state-owned and communally owned. Yes, of course, there will be questions about private clinics, private schools, and so on. But I think there's another form of ownership, and there's a completely different security. And we also need to support rural, circuit, district medicine, which works for people who don't pay for money, who come to a doctor and have the right to medical care in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u44	Thank you, Yuri Volodymyrovich, sit down. I invite you to report to the First Deputy Head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Bodnar Olga Borisovna. Please, Olga Borisovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u45	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! At its meeting on January 20, this year, the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government considered draft Law 3155, introduced by the National Deputies of Lithuania, Zerubinsky, Pavlovenko and February 17, 2010, a draft of Law 3155-1, introduced by the People’s Deputies of Ukraine, Sweden and Prokopchuk. For the first one. In line with the need to strengthen social guarantees for the listed categories of workers, the Committee considers it necessary to make the following observations. The proposed legislative proposal is not in line with certain provisions of the State Service Act, namely, part two of the preamble to the law, which defines the general principles of activity, as well as the status of the civil servant who works in public authorities and their apparatus. Part two of Article 2 of the Act, which defines the basic functions of civil servants, such as the performance of organizational and advisory and advisory functions, as well as part of the first article 25 of the Act, which defines the basic criteria for the qualification of public servants. The extension of public service legislation to education, science, and health workers in certain cases will narrow down their existing rights to the present by law and impose additional restrictions on acceptance of public service that conflict with article 22 of the Constitution of Ukraine. In particular, it will significantly reduce the duration of the vacation, increase the working week. The government official’s annual primary leave is 30 calendar days, 56 calendar days for teachers and academics. So we're taking a substantial vacation from them. For government officials, 40 hours a week is fixed and 18 hours a week is set for education. You lose your pension for years. For civil servants, there is a limit to the age of public service service and retirement, and for those who work for education regardless of age. If there's an internship between 25 and 30 years of age, that is, teachers and doctors will retire at 55 and 60 years of age. There is also a ban on entrepreneurship, cohabitation, and so forth, on other requirements of anticorruption legislation. The bill requires a substantial budget expenditure of more than 30 billion dollars. In view of the above, the Committee considers that, in order to address the issue of increasing the level of material security and social security for workers in the categories noted, it is more appropriate to compare them with government officials in the area of payment of material and pension work by amending the relevant laws. And the committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that, as a result of the first reading, draft Law 3155 should be returned to the right of the legislative initiative to work with the comments made. As for the second bill. The bill does not have the ratio of posts of designated categories of employees to the corresponding categories of positions of civil servants, depending on which the salary scheme is drawn up, the unforeseeable change in the structure of the salary for the identified categories of employees with a view to adapting them to the structure of the salaries of civil servants. There is a proposal to increase social guarantees for the relevant categories of employees of state-owned property, while the same category of employees working in appropriate municipal property institutions are out of the question. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council, in its conclusion, considers it appropriate to send both bills for further work on the results of its first reading. Ukraine’s Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Finance, believe that the implementation of the bill requires about 6 billion dollars. On the basis of the stated and supported idea of raising the level of social guarantees of the relevant categories, the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine return the bill to some of the legislative acts of Ukraine to the right of the legislative initiative to work with regard to the comments made. [[on expanding the social security of health care workers, educational institutions and public property education institutions]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u46	Thank you, Olga Borisovna. If you would like to write a question to a fellow reporter, please write it down. Bylorus Oleg Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u47	Dear reporter! The committee’s recommendation is not clear. What and what are the refinements you have in mind? Because these two bills are different, and if we work on them, we'll get two different concepts again, two different formulas, and we'll never get to any single solution. If possible, what do you recommend to introduce into the concept of “recasting” these two bills?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u48	Thank you, Oleg Grigorovich. The point is that no one prevents colleagues from getting together and passing a collective bill that takes into account all the comments made and which were made in this room, as well as those expressed by the Scientific and Scientific Administration, is the first. And secondly, the committee says that the best option that we can offer when we deal with the problems that we face in places and that we are approached by medical and educational workers is simply to predict that the pension provision for these categories of citizens in their own occupational laws that regulate this issue today will be prescribed in such a way that they will not have a pension lower than 80 percent of their salary.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u49	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u50	Thank you. I'm grateful to you, Your Honor, that unlike the drafters of the bill, you spoke essentially, not theory, because they were speaking one theory, and you're reading the texts of the bill and there's an entirely different one. And one more thing. There are conclusions from the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, which clearly and clearly expressed its negative attitude towards both bills: one suggests that the Scientific and Experimental Authority reject, the other send for further work. And one more question. You know, since April 1, a package of anti-corruption laws comes into force. In fact, today, if we don't tell people the truth and lie to them socially, I don't think that's going to be a plus for the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You have to take, according to these bills, the status of the public service has these benefits, these are the negatives, the wages, the same thing, you're losing here, you're losing here, on vacations and a lot of other aspects. So I'd like to ask that we send these bills for further work and your opinion on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u51	Thank you. That's exactly what I'm talking about. First of all, the first bill is that it will actually make a very large "service bearer" on April 1st, unfortunately, these categories of workers. Because since April 1, they will be completely subject to this anticorruption law. In addition, I said that if there were 56 calendar days for teaching scientists today, they could now have 30 calendar days. If the length of working hours in education is 8 hours a week, government officials have 40 hours a week. So this is a very significant narrowing of their existing rights and benefits to date. I've already mentioned it. And if we really want to help teachers and doctors, we need to understand what they really want. I don't think such proposals can lead to some kind of rise in prestige. Not enough, I want to say that most of the categories they're offered are going to be 13th. This is a small, for example, rank, but a lot of commitment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u52	Mikhailo Kosov, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u53	Mikhailo Kosov, faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko, Party “Reforms and Orders”. Dear Olga Borisovno, this question has a very long history. And when I reported in this room the laws on museums and museums, libraries and library affairs, that question also came up, but it's not something in these projects these days, well, abandoned, well, cultural workers don't mention there. Now the second one. Well, you've obviously made a deal, Olga Borisovno, because it's not 8 hours a week for a teacher in high school. It's 18 hours a week. Thus, it would be 40 hours a week on a five - day workday for a civil servant. The question is, most importantly, the issue that needs to be solved is actually the numbering of pensions. And can't we just focus so much on that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u54	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u55	Thank you. I understood the question. Where we can, how we can address pension issues. That's exactly what I was talking about in my speech. That these are the occupational laws that provide for pension insurance for these categories of workers, and the changes should be to these laws. And they have to be prescribed in exactly the same terms: “No less than 80 percent of the salary.” And what I'm going to tell you is that the first bill is, well, the second one also applies to scientific workers, and today they have a law that provides for them up to 90 percent of their salary pension. So there is also a narrowing of existing rights. It's such a scrupulous job. But it has to be in profile laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, time is up. Olga Borisovno, thank you, sit down, please. Let's move on to the bill. I'm asking you to sign up. No, not the vote yet, but the discussion. Please sign up for the factions. Please. From the faction. Please also make a record of the people’s deputies. Yes, please put your names on the board. Yes, Valentin Grigorovich Matthews, Communist faction, please. Catherine Samuel, next is George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u57	Dear colleagues! A few years ago, the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine initiated the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Retirement of Pedagogical and Pedagogical Workers. And I want to tell you that this bill just predicted 80 to 90 percent of this category's pension and each year's allowance, of course, added one percent. I also want to point out that virtually all of those, we're going to talk about, are specific benefits for teaching and for science teachers. But unfortunately, over the years, this bill has never reached a hand, and it has not been considered by the pension insurance committee. He was not introduced into the session hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I want to say, on behalf of the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, by order, more faithfully, that we will support this bill, we will unlock this issue, but until the second reading, we have to solve the important issues, because this whole law will turn into a bubble. The first question that has already been raised is the duration of the annual vacation from 56 to 30 days. Whether our teachers give us the benefit of the doubt or not, we too need to think about it. Next. We need to resolve the issues that have to do with working hours. For today's 18-hour working week, it's going to be 40 hours. By what means will we load up our teachers, where they will find such loads at school? This question too must be taken into account. Next. We know that schools, kindergartens, FAPs, and hospitals are being closed today. The State Service Act prohibits these categories from participating in strikes, i.e. the ability to defend their rights, the constitutional rights of those living in the relevant population. These issues certainly need to be resolved and so I'm very sorry that this bill didn't get to the science and education, health care, that we're just limited by consideration in.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u58	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u59	I think we're just limited to the consideration of the State Building Committee. And so the second reading needs to be done well, so that not only these but other comments can be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u60	Thank you. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” faction. Please do not pass on the right to speak. Then please, Oleg Zarubinsky is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u61	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear people's deputies, almost 15 years ago, when I went to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I was convinced that this was the right decision. I was just convinced that it was the right decision. Now, knowing much more than I knew 15 years ago, I see that there are a lot of flaws in this decision, especially. And I agree with my colleague, who has just been speaking, that it was extremely important to miss this bill through committees of medicine, medicine, education, and culture. And you know what a civil servant is? 55 years old to a woman, is she supposed to retire? All of it! Look at the teachers ’ age today. My late mother worked in school her whole life. I know by 55. At 55, no one retires. At the age of 60, men. I'm not talking about compatibility, I'm not talking about work at a few bets, I'm thinking with horror, if this law were now distributed to teachers, to doctors, which would be after the laws on combating corruption came into force on April 1st, all our three laws. It's gonna be something scary. Now, as to whether this restricts what we're talking about, does article 22 of the Constitution limit it? Yes, it does. Restricted on vacation, limited during working hours. What to do with these people at this time is also unknown. I also asked a financial question. The Ministry of Finance experts have told me that my colleague Zarubinsky's first law is highly respected for 22 billion dollars, and if you add cultural workers, it's going to be 30 billion. That the second law is now worth 7 billion. If you add one more thing to what you're talking about: municipal and so on, it's going to be one and a half times that. So, my dear friends, in my opinion, we should have a wide-ranging parliamentary hearing on this issue, just like on education: whether to make it less than 10 years old or not. You can take the first reading, you can do all the preparatory work. And if we get to the second, let's see what we can see on the way out. Because a lot of questions come out of this project very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u62	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania” faction. Prepare Michael Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, I am forced to take the floor in order to correct some of the things that have been said, that are being circulated, that do not correspond to the substance of the law, namely, the bill. You know, it reminds me of when they said that Yuri Anatoliyevich was referring to Minfin, he said that the Law on raising the living minimum would be, Minfin ordered, there, 100 billion, or 70 billion. And then the Pension Fund sent out papers saying that "you have 60 copies" of the bill raises something. So we don't have to fool everyone all the time. Remember, you're getting a 60-billion-dollar pension because it's out there, and Minfin said it's 100 billion of the budget he's going to take. Well, that's a little loose. What I want to do is walk twice, and it's been said that since April 1st, corruption is going to be co-existence. Your Honor, either you didn't listen to me or you didn't read this law. Once again, article 5 of the Anti-Corruption Act contains an exception that allows public officials to engage in scientific, teaching, creative and medical activities. Well, don't keep spreading the same thing that the predecessor says wrong to manipulate the public consciousness. Second, on 56 days off and 30 days off. Once again, I want to say that the bill does not provide for the abolition of the benefits and standards that are in the professional laws that apply to doctors and educators. And finally, here were the comments about not voting for this bill, so here I'm going to say, 2.10.09, I have to say this already, the leader of the Party of Regions, Viktor Janukovich, has publicly spoken in favour of granting all teachers the status of civil servants, I emphasize, status, and no comparison. Victor Andryovich Yushchenka's Presidential Program: The Status of Employees in the Education, Culture and Protection of the Status of State Official. Well, at least look what your leaders suggested, they were right, obviously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u64	Mikhail Papiev, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u65	Thank you. The country's distinguished national MPs, honourable colleagues, the faction of the Ukrainian Party of Regions supports the very idea of raising the social status of health workers, education, but I would ask that we all consider one more nuance, that we have three and a half million budget workers, besides teachers and doctors, are cultural workers, social workers, and other workers. And the principles of the Constitution of Ukraine on equal rights and freedoms of citizens must also be taken into account. As far as the bill is concerned, honourable colleagues, I wish that when we talk about the bill, we should be based on the rules of the articles. It's written in these bills, not in lectures, or in scientific theories. Because I read about these bills both and it says here that they only relate to the educational institutions of state ownership. Call me at least one preschool institution of state property, at least one. We have today, we are now subject to these two laws by only a thousand, maximum, budget workers of three and a half million. And the main mass we have in the budget sector is the employees of utilities, municipal property. And they are completely subject to other laws, not the State Service Act, but the Service Law in the local self - government bodies, and this must be taught. And it is the main question, my fellow Members, that we have not answered the teachers today, in general, what will be the fate of the 57th article of the Education Act of Ukraine. And let's remember, 57 articles, it predicts that the official salary of an education worker should be equal to the average monthly wage in the industry. Today, the average wage in industry in the past month was 2,000, 117. Yes, Your Honor, let's do the law that works first. Or article 22 of the Ukrainian Health Protection Act, it also regulates that the official salary of a health worker should not be lower than the average wage of an industrial worker. And one more question. If we want to talk to people honestly and not lie to them socially, we need to take a clean paper and divide it into two and write down the pluses and minuses that this law gives us, which are minuses. I'm going to prove to everyone that these laws give absolute benefits except for one. Absolute minuses except for one plus are 80-90 percent of the assigned pension from the wage level. Yes, dear colleagues, let's settle this, and we need to settle this. You have to make changes to the law, you have to assume that the pension should be between 80 and 90 percent of the wages and wages.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u66	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u67	Just like we did in the Science and Technology Act. Because today, 20 percent of our teachers are retirement age, 20 percent are pre-retirement age. And you have to give them the answer that they will be, as they will live by this law. We have 40 percent of our health - care staff.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u68	Thank you. Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov. Ladies and gentlemen, the factions are over. Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions. I'm looking at who signed up, there were no records, distinguished national MPs. Sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u69	Respected colleagues, populism, which has been put at the forefront of public policy, deprives States of the future. Because Julia Timoshenko was defeated in the elections. For one reason: because it has brought populism to the level of public policy, which has led the economy to a financial economic collapse and put the country on the brink of default. I will give an example of the good intentions of several years ago that they came up with national status in order to really assign this status to the largest universities with public recognition. Of course, this status has attracted some kind of material encouragement, just a few days later, it has become devalued, and institutions, technicians, colleges are now assigned to jacks that do not even remove snow. I am not surprised that if this orange power in the face of Siamese twin brothers and sisters Yushchenko and Timoshenko had lasted another six months, it would have been six months before the President's decree or Kabmin's decree that we and the public house had granted national status. We're taking the civil servant now. Let us not deceiving people, for which we attribute the status of civil servant, in order to raise their salaries and pensions a little bit, so that again the Government is quick to deceive people, why Timoshenko did not make a budget before the new year, in this budget they have placed normal wages, pensions, social pensions so that we do not humiliate doctors or teachers. So that we do not deceive them. So few bets, Timoshenko has refused to make a budget, and today there is no budget, unprecedented, in a world where the Government refuses to even budget. There's no budget today. Therefore, we need to understand that it is not a matter of civil servants, it is not a matter of national status if the economy is breathing on the ladanus if the Government is not beating its finger to raise the real sector of the economy. And if the Prime Minister runs the papers in the courts, what happens in this country, people laugh at us, foreigners talk, Janukovic wins, hand over power quickly and start working. You don't have any strength in the economy, do you? Therefore, unless we raise the real sector of the economy, nothing national or civil servants will be devalued. Therefore, the task of one and the main output would be to ensure that Timoshenko's bankruptcy government would leave, and that the Government of pragmatic managers and managers led by Yanukovic would come, and then all problems would be solved.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u70	Sulkowski is handing over the right to speak to Michael Papieuve, followed by Paul Zebrowsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u71	Thank you. I've asked the country's distinguished national deputies, honourable colleagues, to take the floor once again, because three minutes for such important and serious laws as Ukrainian citizens are looking forward to and with different information, different approaches to this law, we need to show people all the benefits of this law. And I took it for myself that we adopted this bill and it started to work. See, we have in the Ukrainian State Service Act seven categories of civil servants and 15 ranks. At 12th rank today is the head of the district office or education department, 12th rank. The State Service Act is drafted in such a way that a school teacher cannot be higher in rank and category than the head of the district education department, as well as the teacher. I would like the authors of the bill to show which of the three categories 15, 14 or 13 will be the Methodist teacher or teacher of the higher category, or the senior teacher on which the nurse will be ranked, on which rank the starting doctor and many others. Now, let's see what the salary today is for the leading district government specialist, 531 bracelets. And I'm looking at what the senior nurse's salary is, and there's the qualifications, that's higher education and a lot of other things. A nurse in the upper category today has a salary of 943 bracelets, so under this law we have a nurse to reduce the salary. Or we take the head specialist, the chief specialist in the district government -- 880 bucks. Dear colleagues! And if you take, even the head of the district education department, you know that today the principal of the school gets a salary, he gets a salary, he gets, like, one and a half times as high as the head of the district education department, which is 12th grade. The principal of the school now has a salary of 1 thousand 406 dollars, and the head of the district education department has 1 thousand 404 bracelets and many other things that we need to give an honest, non-prejudicable answer to today. Yes, today we have an underpaid salary, both for government officials and for local government officials. We have a similar situation with teachers, because we don't even have a law that the first tariff level of the single tariff grid should be at the minimum wage. We don't pay every teacher and doctor between 400 and 1,000 dollars today. Yes, dear fellows, let's give this law to work out with the teachers themselves, the doctors themselves, as it should be. And then we'll be able to prepare a full one.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u72	Pavlov Žebrovsky, please, the faction of "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense", will be followed by Catherine Samuelk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u73	Here before the previous colleague was so scattered and it occurred to me that "Januković suffered a devastating victory" – you might say. Friends! Let's talk about realistic things, about games, about what we're going to talk about. In fact, no one today denies that there is a need to get out of the destructive state in which there are medical and pedagogical workers today. Can all of these concepts be addressed by the two bills proposed today for our consideration? Sadly, no. Actually, what's the problem? You see, I've analyzed, every day we're looking at 3-5 social laws. We love that category of people, we love that, the problem is that today there are at least five ex-Ministers of Social Policy in this room. But there is no social policy as a whole system today in the state. There's a committee, there's ministers who criticize each other, they're in power today, they're tightening spending, they're opposition -- they're criticizing the predecessor and they're changing each other. But a system-wide social policy in Ukraine. not available. It's absolutely true that the only thing we know when we meet with health professionals and teachers is retirement. And just for the sake of the state service laws, there's actually a desire to settle pensions. But let's look at it a little bit differently. We need to raise wages today, first of all. Friends, five years from now, we will have more retirees than workers. If we're talking about 80-90 percent, if we have 80-90 percent of the salary of the pension, that means we're going to be subsidizing the Pension Fund from the budget, which means that we can't raise the salaries of the budgeters, it's a vicious circle, it's Trishkin Kaftan, which we're pulling from there and there, from there and there." In fact, these questions do not solve anything. We need to seriously unify pension insurance, starting with national deputies, civil servants and all other categories of workers, then that'll be an honest answer. In fact, both medical personnel and educators don't mind getting even, but they say, "Then why do you have 80-90 percent? Then let us all put together one whole 35 per cent per year worked for all categories of workers and then it will be fair, it will be fair!" That's what ex-Minister Papiev and ex-Minister Kirilenko and other people who've been involved in this question have to ask: if you're really a mate, you know, give a real concept of social policy in Ukraine, then it'll be an honest answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u74	Catherine Samuelk gives the right to speak to Sergey Gordijenko, a faction of Communists. Vladimir Karpuk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u75	Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honorable Citizens of Ukraine! At each stage, in every election process, like the “tubacquesters” take this problem out, which is to be compared, forgive for the harsh words that I have called, our educators and doctors to the status of civil servants. What we're talking about here today in the session room, about those documents, there's no doubt that it's the faction of the Company of Ukraine that will definitely support them. But the root of the problem and the root of the problem, as necessary, lies in a completely different plane. Perhaps the main problem is the return of Soviet power. [[B in m in s a l in]] Because just during Soviet rule, as you would, as if you weren't laughing here today, and just in the time of Soviet power, the Soviets became from a purely illiterate country to the mid-30s a country with complete writing. And it was in Ukraine that a Soviet teacher was placed on the proper level. We are today, no matter who laughs, but it is a perfect fact, because it is all the historical and statistical evidence given today that Ukraine has become one of the best scientific countries in the world in Soviet times. And I would like to say today that exactly what I said would take away all the privileges and benefits that we're talking about here. And for teachers, when we and the Polish teachers repeatedly analyzed these bills, we came to the same conclusion that the Soviet teacher had been led by this authority over the past 20 years to a beggarly existence. And our Ukrainian teacher and doctor today need a proper level of wage, and on this basis, a proper level of pension. The bourgeois authorities, which are and will be in our country, are unable to resolve this fundamental and fundamental issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u76	Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u77	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear audiences and listeners! We're looking at extremely sensitive bills in society today. Without a doubt, the wages of all budget workers, not only in educational, health, but also in the social sphere, must be raised by cultural institutions and a pension of 80 to 90 percent of the decent wages paid by these workers today. During 2009, the wages of a doctor, I repeat, amounted to 64 percent of the average in industry. You were called 2,000 110. But on the average, even in highly specialized institutions where doctors take over, there is no such average wage. The other day, I went to the Institute of Cardiosurgery called Amosova. A doctor of medical science, a professor who has spent his entire life in college and has worked from a health center in this institution, is receiving a pension of 1 thousand 440 dollars. It's a shame for the state. But these laws do not solve the problem. For example, 25 percent of health - care workers are retired. How is it that now, when such a bad law takes effect, what can we do? Continued work only by permission of the state? 40 percent of the people work in harmony. In rural areas, a husband works both as a therapist and as a pediatrician. They will not be able to carry out their functions. First of all, this will affect your health. Since April 01, the Law on Corruption has entered into force. So this is the huge responsibility of these medical workers and a lot more. But what I want to stress is that we have to explain to people because these questions arise at meetings of both medical and educational groups. Closer to solving the problem, the bill proposed by the people of Sweden and Prokopchuk proposed 3155-1. This bill can be redrafted, introduced, really, 80-90 percent of the salary. But I think the figures quoted are unrealistic. 150 million for these purposes is not enough. But it's bumping into the skulls again, like being the workers who are now retired who won't be able to work for 10 years. This will only create further social tension. Therefore, we propose the first bill to reject, vote on, adopt, and work on, the second bill 3155-1, along with the Committee on Health and the Committee on Local Self-Government and Public Administration.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u78	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time for the national MPs is up. Time's up, there's nothing I can do. Dear colleagues, we have the right to use a representative from a faction that has not spoken. Yuri Prokopchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u79	Yuri Prokopchuk, "Block. Julius Timoshenko." Dear colleagues, Ukrainian citizens, educators, medics! In fact, now in this room again shows how the other part reacts to what it once promised. I thank all colleagues who made comments, but they supported the bill. And what I'm saying is that it's Bill 3155, footnote 1 that was introduced by the Swedish People's MP and myself. He settles many questions when he does not have to spend a lot of money on changing legislation. And some of the hawks that confuse the MP's bill with the government's going on promised, including all the Ukrainian people, teachers, doctors who didn't vote in favour of the budget that the government has repeatedly submitted, and now they say it's not in the budget. You know, this wise man, this Ukrainian poet Chekhov, said to the international writer Chernishevski: “What can I do?” That's what you do! Because given that in this room, in one part of it, the best genocide of the Ukrainian people or the gene pool, as was the case, is a mistake, you better see for yourself what you are doing, because you know what will happen, that, God forbid, you will come to do it. And then what are you going to do? Yeah, you don't have to speculate. I ask everyone to support the bill, although in the first reading, if these changes are necessary, I agree with them, to carry out and finish speculating on this subject once and for all. Both the medics and the educators are waiting for it. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, the speeches are over. Final word, please, Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u81	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I'm actually pleased as one of the drafters of the bill is satisfied that they finally started talking about a topic that they're only talking about before the election. It's very good that we're talking about this after the election. And this raises the question of responsibility for promises, for when the election bonuses are implemented or unfulfilled, these promises are then forgotten. And that's embarrassing. But I think the electorate should appreciate that. I don't call names, I even quoted them as saying what they were saying and on what billboards they were on. But I'm talking about another question that really got me excited. It is said that there is no need to touch the public service system in Ukraine. And indeed, the bill proposed will touch it. But tell me, please, do we have people who are satisfied with what the system is in the service of the State, is it just, or is it adequate today, why do we contradict ourselves? If we have a problem with the public service, if we have an inadequate assessment of the different ranks of government officials, this should be changed, including through proposed bills on the status of government officials. There's nothing wrong with this. And one more moment. You know, it's all about what we need to talk about, I've already talked about it, but once again, I want to say that we just have to add these privileges to the teachers and doctors, give them a little bit more pay and let them shut up, let them calm down. That their social status is zero, that the prestige of their work is zero. Let's make them one more purchase, and they'll calm down. This is unfair to these people who, by the way, all have higher education, a real higher education! Because a person who has no higher education or medical training will not become a teacher or a teacher, only a politician can become a deputy. And one more moment. When they talk about these supplements, I have to tell you this. If that were enough, then I would ask this question: If there were 57 articles of the Education Law and similar articles of other laws in Ukraine, neither teachers nor doctors would even claim to extend the status of civil servant to them. Even in spite of the Constitutional Court’s decision, however, the State budget limits payments each year. Isn't that right? And now we say we're only going to give them these payments. Don't let them get paid, you don't have to lie to anyone. You have to change the status and place of teacher and doctor at school -- a person who performs a state function. And the last. It's kind of like we're taking these bills as data as the final version. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing that we will have the opportunity to prepare for the second reading all the right suggestions to implement, consider, let's view this as a bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u82	Thank you, Vladimir Matviyczuk, Deputy Minister of Finance. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u83	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! When you make a decision, I think you'll take into account what you've already said, so I'm not going to stop at the social injustice of these bills because they've divided the budget staff into two parts. Some were counted, others were not counted. I will not stop at the fact that the distribution of such status takes up a number of rights in the budget area of employees regarding the term of leave relating to the right to co-existence, which refers to the length of work after reaching retirement age and so on, in which there are limited civil servants. I want to look separately at what hasn't been said. Education and health care workers, according to current legislation, have the right to engage in entrepreneurial activities and to participate in strikes. State officials have no such right. As a result of this bill, it will be a violation of article 22 of the Constitution, because there can be no narrowing of rights and freedoms. Ladies and gentlemen, please note that what are "government officials". By definition of the State Service Act, they are persons who perform organizational and advisory functions and advisory functions. How does a surgeon, what kind of organizational function does he do? It's just that it's impossible to write the law. As far as financial security is concerned. I'm saying that the first bill is going to cost 22 billion dollars for the year, the second bill is 5 billion dollars. With the rest of the budget workers there, the first bill will cost about 30 billion dollars for the budget, and the second bill will cost about 7 billion dollars. There will be no non-inflationary sources of funding for this bill either in this or in the following year. And I'd like to pay attention. The first bill envisions its introduction on January 1, 2009. We have February 2010 today. It's impossible to accept that, it seems to us in the first reading. And with regard to the criticism of the Honourable Zarubinsky People's Deputies for the Social Standards Act. And I'm still saying today that if we do this law completely, it's going to cost 100 billion dollars this year. If you lie to people, it will cost the wrong amount at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u84	Dear national MPs, distinguished national MPs, we are finalizing the discussion of the law. Using the presence of a government member, I ask again: Where is the 2010 budget? That's the first one. Ivan Aleksandrovich, the government has a budget to make. There's no budget. By February 10, a public discussion of the budget was held in accordance with the government’s direction. The national budget discussion is over, please submit the budget to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and we will put it to the vote to confirm whether there is a coalition. Because all of these discussions: whether or not there are, should be supported by practical decisions, this is the first, and the second, honourable representative of the government had to make this statement regarding the draft Law on the Status of State Officials when, in a pre-election campaign by the government, the opposition officially declared that they would demand the granting of the status of State officials. We need to have an honest and open conversation with people. So where were you when you called these numbers now? And the honourable colleagues, this is a conversation about the subject that we talked about in terms of learning, which is a sign of it. That we need to have a serious dialogue, determine what we need to do to get the teacher and the medic to have the proper attention from the state. And here a colleague told us how much the head of the district education department gets paid by the school principal. So what I'm saying is that in the previous period, which is called criminal, highly skilled workers received much more wages than the secretary in the city party. And no one raised their voices at the time. It may be necessary for people to pay an appropriate salary for the job and not during election campaigns. With this in mind, in summary of the bill's discussion, let's demonstrate consistency and make decisions so that we can move in that direction. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the bill, registration number 3155, to amend certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the granting of public service status to medical, pedagogical, scientific and pedagogical workers]] Registration number 3155. Please vote. [[11:58:19]] For-163 The decision is not taken. The draft Law shall be put to the vote. [[Registration number 3155-1]] Please withdraw the vote. The factions, please. Region Party 0, "Timoshenko Yulia Block" - 114, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" - 3, Communist faction - 26, "Litvina Block" - 20, non-fractional - 0. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the granting of public service status to medical, pedagogical, scientific and pedagogical workers]] Please vote. [[11:59:22]] For 202 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, "Club of Timoshenko" – 146, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 9, Communist faction – 27, "Club of Lithuania" – 20, non-fractional – 0. I'm betting on voting for the re-reading of the bill, registration number 3155, 3155-1. Let's do it again. Here comes the vote. [[12:00:01]] For 312 Decision taken. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the Supreme Council of Ukraine decided to review the bill with registration numbers 1104, 4530, 4745, 4447, 5165, 6062, 6039. That's how they inform me. Dear colleagues, I announce a recess of up to 12 hours for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, we continue the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Request: Invite the national deputies to the session hall. Dear colleagues, there is a need to consult. Yesterday, at the suggestion of Andrew Cosemyakin, we decided that a number of drafts that are now in the order of the day are being considered by a reduced procedure. And instead, there's a proposal by National MP Simonek Peter Mikolaiovich that's a bill that's important enough and resonant enough to be considered in full procedure so that it can be properly reported and discussed. I'd like to ask you from the faction, Peter Mikolaiovich, your argument, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u86	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, first of all, that decision was made yesterday and it had a bearing on the order of the day and the consideration of yesterday's issues. Today, we are considering a very important issue that relates to the basis of our economic state, to the lives of our citizens, to the perspective of our state. And to consider the protection of state interests because of the possibility of having a law that ensures the legal order of return to the state property of enterprises that are essential to our state, it is of great importance. I would like to stress once again, my fellow Members, that there is a Privatisation Act in the State of Ukraine. And there is no law in the state of Ukraine to protect the interests of the state and to have state property. Today, only 10 percent of our government property remains in Ukraine. There's no such thing in the world. And we must, in my opinion, settle this issue in terms of the protection of national interests. That's why I'm proposing.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u87	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u88	That is why I propose to adopt the relevant law and to consider it as a complete procedure for each to express his or her point of view and to make a reasoned decision in accordance with the Rules, which provides for the discussion of issues in full procedure. This law is very important.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u89	Thank you. The argument is understood. Alexander Bondar, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" and Valentin Zhubov is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u90	I have to speak on behalf of the committee, because there is no committee leader Alexander Mikolaiovich Tkachenko, I have been instructed to inform the Supreme Council that these two bills have not been considered by the committee and there is no decision. That's strange, because the committee is headed by a Communist faction and why we didn't look at it, I don't know, although the committee's decision is known in advance and the hall is also known. This issue in the Supreme Council Hall has been dealt with a number of times, it's been like a pear campaign on charges of privatization, but no decision on the adoption of this law has been made for one simple reason, because these laws conflict with the valid Constitution of Ukraine. And so that we don't discuss the Nationalization Act now, it won't be adopted. And everyone knows that. So I think we shouldn't waste time on this, and if a faction of Communists is already insisting, in a reduced procedure, consider this law once again, which has no prospects.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u91	Thank you. Valentin Zubov, BUT, and Gregory Smythuch.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u92	Valentin Zubov, “Bloka Yulii Timoshenko” faction. I strongly support Peter Nikolaevich Simonenko's position that this bill should be implemented in full procedure solely on the basis that it is strategically important to ensure the vitality of our country. The previous speaker was totally wrong when he said that such bills would not be passed and should not be discussed any more. I believe that discussion is essential because we have been so confused in the market economy for 20 years that we have. Only success has been achieved in the collapse of the public sector of the economy, which today needs to be restored. I therefore believe that the bill is very important to the country and that we must consider it fully.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u93	Gregory Smythuch, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to go to the full consideration of this bill and there is no need to make arguments here. And in general, in the Supreme Council there should be practice, as is the case only, that we're considering bills that are important in a reduced programme, so there's a possibility that there's some argument if there's a shortcut program. And more like that, I'm counting, it's relevant, it's socially relevant, it needs to be considered on a full-time basis. As for the committee that didn't consider it. Dear colleagues, see when the bill was introduced and why it was not considered. There's a month's notice and please come to the hall. You need to work in committees or in the hall and stop referring to the committee. I didn't think about it. Let them work here in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u95	My dear colleagues, as far as this bill is concerned, I want to say that this is where the discussion is concluded, or not to be considered, because this is the decision of the Conciliation Council and it is in order of the day. So there's nothing to talk about, we're just talking about the format. From the Block of Lithuania, there's no wish to express a point of view as to how to consider this bill? Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u96	Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich, honourable colleagues, is aware that when dozens of bills are in order of the day, it is desirable that all of them be considered and I understand the subjects of the legislative initiative, often they are the initiators of the brief procedure simply so that this bill can be considered at least. But Bills of Differences, as they say, and they're different, are where two words change into law and everything else that can really be considered in five minutes, and there are bills that are fundamental, I would say, strategic meaning. Such ones need to be considered in full procedure, otherwise there can be no real discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, if you don't mind, because most of the factions have expressed themselves for us to look at the whole procedure and, given the circumstances that we would have to go to different 13ths, I would have offered this option. We are considering the bill in full procedure, and after voting for the bill, we are moving on to a different one. And we're not going to look at other bills, and we're going to get out of this situation. No objections? I invite Simonek Peter Mikolaiovich to report on the draft Law on the return of property of the basic sectors of the national economy, which are owned by citizens and legal persons, to the property of the state. [[nationalization]] [[Registration number 1104]]
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u98	Dear colleagues! And our citizens of Ukraine are respected! The general acquisition of state property by the basic means of production was not legitimate without the will of our people to be privatized among private, natural and legal persons during the 1990s. As a result of privatization, millions of Ukrainian citizens were actually robbed, they did not acquire new property, and they also took away their common property, which was used by social consumption funds, which increased the level and quality of life of tens of millions of people through the shadow politics of the state. I am addressing you today, my fellow Members, and I would like to take this opportunity to address you as representatives of various areas of our Ukraine. I turn to those who represent Hersonianism, where and where did the CBC go? What about the Hersonian combines today? Where did the oil refinery go? What about the shipbuilding plant today? What is the state of the cellulose combination of Zurupinski? I am addressing who today represents Kharkishte here in the Supreme Council: where is the Kupyan foundry? Where'd "Serp and the hammer" go? Where did the sugar factories in Harkishka come from? I refer to the representatives of Kirovgrad: Has not the so-called lease and lease relationship “Alexandriaugil” been destroyed? Where did the Clean Metals plant go? [[Svetłovodsk]] Where did this radio plant go, a powerful company. I turn to the Chinese, who today represents Kiev: where is the famous “Bilshevik”? Where is the “Leninian cousin ”? Where's the Darnicki silk combination? Where other companies are famous for our Soviet Ukraine, which was our pride. Where they disappeared from the economic map of Ukraine. I'm talking to the Winnicks who represent Winnitz. 39 sugar factories were – 12 left. Where did the electric lamp plant go? Where did the tractor assembly plant go, where's the same balloon bearing factory? Where is the Terminal plant? I'm talking to the Mikolai people here today, who represent the Mikolai district where the Black Sea Shipbuilding Plant, where the Ocean, where the Mikolai Agricultural Plant, which is the result of today's activities, is now fully coming out of Ukraine and moving into another state. And where all the radio-electronic industries in the Mikolai district went, all the businesses of the same light industry. I mean, ladies and gentlemen, whatever area you and I now take with you, this privatization has resulted in the destruction of the virtually economic base of the independence of the state of Ukraine. As a result, the remaining 10 per cent of government property today, only $5 billion has been privatized to the State budget over the years, taking into account the fact that 4 billion have been paid for Crevystall and 10 per cent have remained. I remind you, Nationalists, you started off with 600 billion dollars of property left in Ukraine from the Soviet period. Where did the 600 billion go? This is what I would like you and I to take into account today that the plundering privatization of national property, created by the self-sustaining work of many generations, is now being used ineffectively in the interests of speaking to the people of Ukraine, and is being used effectively only in the pockets of individual citizens who have virtually illegally occupied these businesses. It has led to the widespread deindustrialization of Ukraine, the unprecedented decline in production, the decline in the volume of domestic gross product more than double, mass unemployment, population poverty, the destruction of the world’s best social security system, the degradation of the health system, public education and culture, and so forth. Unemployment and poverty, poverty, social mass sickness, malnutrition, begging, the loss of training today, professional training for workers, that is, the destruction of science, industry and other industries. Thus, as a result of privatization on a single pole, there have been large-scale robberies of the people's wealth of bandit and oligarchic clans, corrupt government, which has increased with the criminalist, law enforcement agencies that have rejected the law and laws, not in the interests of society, but primarily for their own benefit, have taken over real power in a country that leads Ukraine to the brink of civilisation in the state of a colonial country. And today, if carefully analyzed, only raw materials are exported from the state of Ukraine. And as such, quality products we don't have with you today, which can compete in external markets and allow us today to create normal conditions for the development of our state. What does world experience say? And what should we think about with you today? The world’s domestic experience of farming strongly shows that the state is deprived of its property, unable to manage either the economy or society. In developed countries of the West: Austria, Britain, France, Germany, Sweden, Norway, Finland, and others, and not less than 55 - 80 percent of the major economic sectors — transport, communications, telecommunications, energy, geological exploration, mining, metallurgy, engineering, shipbuilding, major banks, and so on — are owned by the State. Agriculture has long been out of market relations and taken care of by the state, financed from the budget. What's going on?Oh, my God! “Poltawageology” – 12,000 workers. Kabmin's decision is to destroy this enterprise. Why? In view of what we need to hide, who is really sitting on our wells, and who is sucking our resources out of our native Ukraine. If we're talking about the power of the state. National security, independence, and sovereignty do not have material security today. And all these questions are in the hands of private individuals. And it's up to them today whether there's a state or a state today that has a power of defense or not? Depends on the fact that all these profits are hidden in the shadows, and offshore companies use their own pockets to extend property and our independence with you. The state has lost ownership rights to almost all strategically needed for national defence security and to meet the social needs of the basic area of the national economy. For example, once again I want to remind you, and it's time for you, dear colleagues, to consider it. The people of Ukraine built five oil factories in their time. Even though one oligarch built an oil refinery for his native Ukraine during his years of independence? Now let's all say no. How has privatization taken place, including? The Lysic oil refinery is Europe's largest! 20 million tons of oil could be processed, and this was the annual program. It was sold for 50 million dollars at the cost of $5 billion. I want you to. That's what you've been doing! That's exactly what I was up against. And if you are with them, so to speak, as you are, please be with them, for you are sharing with them. So, ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to emphasize and, speaking to you, the honourable ones, which has resulted in the completion of privatization. The “Cruvoristal” was sold in one year for 24 billion. Kissed him. In one year, he put 4 billion in his pocket, and in one year, 11,000 workers reduced to “Criminals”. The government budget has dropped all the social infrastructure and nothing is needed, it means the local budget is practically drained. All of this leads to the fact that the state of Ukraine today ceases to be a state, for we also lose political sovereignty. So, from this point of view, my dear fellows, I have proposed a specific project that envisions all the mechanisms, how and who makes proposals, how the state and other organizations take part in this, how an enterprise is assessed, how the money is returned to whoever invested in this enterprise, and how the calculations are made for what amount to be recovered. I have just proposed a full mechanism so that on the basis of democratic principles, i.e. legality, we can address the issues that have a bearing on the development of our state. I'm paying attention to you, my dear fellows, and I'm asking you to just throw away all of this that has a bearing on you, including your property, let's think about the state. What can be done today is a program to eliminate unemployment. It was only the nationalists who could say that they created jobs from the air. No jobs are created from the air. The state must have a state-owned job creation program. Today, the state has to regulate wage levels and ensure a standard of living. Today, the state must rekindle its attitude toward the very applied science, which should be an opportunity for the development of our nation today. The draft law therefore defines the basic principles, order and conditions of nationalization. The implementing authorities provide laws to protect the interests of the nationalized owner of property, setting out how to resolve the issues that arise in the process of nationalization. I believe in you, that common sense, that you have no interest in, yet you hold an interest.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u99	We sign up for a question to the rapporteur and the author of the bill. Light up, please. Papiev Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u100	Thank you. Your Honor, it's a complicated law of perception, but I'm sure I'll have questions for you. We already have the state statistics report “according to economic activities”, that is, we do not have the term “branch”, “branches of the national economy” or any other. In what way is this type of economic activity planned? And one more thing. You have here the term “property of the Ukrainian people”. Yes, it is in article 13 of the Constitution of Ukraine, but today there is no bill to interpret in general what property is of the Ukrainian people, and there is no decision by the Constitutional Court on this matter either. What sense would you put in the term “the property of the Ukrainian people” that the land, Nadra, is the property of the people under the 13th article of the Constitution of Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, this would have to be a question for those who were the authors of the draft Constitution at the time, and now the existing Constitution, which were the formulations that were being made. And that's the first one. And secondly, I would very much like you and I to be professional today, responsible as politicians, about the question that I have raised. Today, you can hide behind a formula. And the question is, is there a state of ownership that today provides an opportunity for the authorities to exercise their powers? Why Are We Suffering Today? Because the authorities do not have ownership, and we do not know how to turn today or on which horse to go to the owner. So what's the problem? So once again, I want to emphasize, these issues are easier to resolve. And I say, let's make this decision on the first reading. And then what may not be agreed upon or disputed is certain, then we'll, let's say, enter it and settle it. But you can't hide from this term of understanding that the state is today. So let's see, what's the state of the rocket complex today? Let's go to the South Car Factory with you and see who's from Dniproperty.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u102	Let me finish. Yuri Litwin, Lithuanian Block faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u103	I'd like to give it to Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u104	Oleg Zarubinski's word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u105	Dear Peter Mikolaiovich, for example, I am not intimidated by the words “nationalization”, in principle, in some countries these processes are taking place, not only in the whole sectors but in the individual enterprises where the state sees them, but also in the United Kingdom, Norway and some other countries. In terms of whole areas, I don't know, frankly, that kind of example. In view of this, as you feel about the bill yesterday, I think he was right when someone who privatizes enterprises does not fulfil their social obligations with regard to the collective of this enterprise, with regard to the social infrastructure around this enterprise, it is possible to take a more individualised course and where, in fact, the enterprise is completely ineffective, where commitments are not being made, they can be returned. And if there's an effective owner, he put a lot in there, people don't have a bad salary. Maybe it's differentiated to do that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u106	I fully support your concern, because it is reflected in the draft law that I have the honour to present to you. That's the first one. And there it is that it is done to inventory this process, to understand who and how it worked, who made the commitment to the state, and who did not do it, and who did not intend to do it. Let's go with you now. Who is from Tokmak of Zaporozhye? Where's the diesel? “Judgielmash”, if I am not mistaken, the factory. Well, don't you know that because of the most powerful equipment, they just pull out and cut into metal scraps under the slogans of privatization. That's why we have to do inventory because it's a metal scrapper, it's got millions on it, and Ukraine's lost the factory. That's what I'm talking about. Why did Zarubinsky’s respectable comrade use the term “branch” here? And because the specifics were the development of Ukraine then Soviet and so on, let's say, a certain area. Look, if there was only a private sector, would there be 13 metallurgical enterprises in Ukraine? It was the Soviet authorities who gave 13 metallurgical enterprises to Ukraine as an independent one.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u107	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u108	What do we have today? In Zaporozhye, I return to you, Your Honor, where did the aluminum combination go? Is he not needed by Ukraine? So this is exactly what I'm saying is that Ukraine's development was special. And yes, we see with you how the light industry developed powerfully in us, because we had a powerful potential, including the labor force. The mining complex, the metallurgical complex, the energy developed so strongly, because this is where everything that Ukraine was giving to the European part of the Soviet Union, including abroad, was being concentrated. Ladies and gentlemen, it was a powerful nation-building complex that provided for the development of the state of Ukraine, and we were all proud of you that Ukraine was the most developed republic in the Soviet Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u109	Gregory Smythech, Party of Regions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u110	Thank you. Dear Peter Mikolaiovich, I share your concern and your understanding that something needs to be done in Ukraine because in principle I share your concern in the plan that the economic potential as Ukraine's independence is destroyed or almost destroyed. As a percentage, it was destroyed more than during World War II. I agree with you. I have two questions to ask you at the same time. How do you feel about article 13 of the Ukrainian Constitution regarding land privatization, nadr and so forth, air, and water resources? That's the first question. Should it be included and not privatized? That's the first question. And the second question is, how do you feel about the banking system, which is Ukraine's economic or financial independence, such as Nadra, where money was stolen from people, then stolen from the bank's reinvestment, the National Bank? Now it is proposed that these debts be repurchased to the state. How do you feel about having the bank’s managers immediately advertise and put them in a position?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u111	In terms of land and air. Indeed, we already have a terrible phenomenon in Ukraine because Ukraine trades its own air through the so-called Kyoto Protocol. And we understand that this is a yoke and rope on the neck that has been imposed on Ukraine, too. Some, and we know these schemes, dear colleagues, I'm not going to tell them, because it takes time, as some people earn by trading in Ukrainian air. And I think we just have to do everything we can to secure today, if we're talking about land, the citizen's right to have real income and benefits from what he owns with the pie, and the state has to help. But by no means, except for the creation of a state land fund, which will be redeemed from those who want to sell land in order to preserve it for future generations. It's sacred, and it's our territory. Well, it can't be like that -- I'm talking to you again, dear colleagues -- if, God forbid, Ukraine would start selling today, you should know that 3,000 different foreign firms have already taken 11 million hectares of roller coaster today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u112	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u113	I think we need to take a public view of this issue here. It's about the bank. I'm in favour of having a clear structure of state banks today that support the very question that we're talking about: the economic sovereignty of our state. And what has to do with the bank “Nadra”, to my deep conviction, must be arrested, brought to criminal responsibility and placed. But it should also be borne in mind that the banking mafia today is headed by a citizen of Yushchenko. And he needs to be attracted to what he did with the banking system today. Because this is the main criminal in our country today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u114	Yuri Gnatkević, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u115	Peter Mikolaiovich, on my first call, I was sitting in the front row, where Sergey Hrapov is now sitting. And when we passed the first privatization laws -- you weren't there, there were other communists who passed those laws -- I sat there, and I sat there, and I thought, "Well, someone can buy a kiosk, someone can buy a hair factory, but how can you buy factories, factories, whole industries that you're talking about right now?" And imagine, Peter Mikolaiovich, that your law will pass. By the way, we had received a whole series of security guards along with the Communists. But they smashed, ripped, embalmed, "adopted" everything, regardless of these fuses. Imagine that our law will pass. And what do you think they're going to give it all up for now? If you don't regulate them, the capital won't forgive you and it won't give up, it's not just a class fight, it's a civil war. How do you imagine the process of this reprisal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u116	I'm offering you, don't be afraid of people, but everyone, regardless of the amount of capital he has, has to take equal responsibility for the law, just like a simple person. And if he has failed to fulfill the obligations set forth in the privatization act, we must, the State, defend our interests. And for that, we have a law enforcement system that needs to work to protect the interests of the state. I'm not idealizing it, I understand that you're still going to tell me that the law enforcement system is privatized by these same criminal clans, unfortunately, it's a bitter truth. But we are talking about the future and that our young people today should have confidence that we are building a democratic state with you. And then there's people sitting here who really think about democracy, not what good words say today, and actually, let's say, let's say, protect criminalized capital. Here's the answer to the question: What mission are we with you people's deputies carrying to Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u117	Thank you, Peter Mikolaiovich. Questions, Answers, and Questions Answered. Please sign up for the performances by the MPs and the MPs. We, the honourable colleagues, have made decisions, no one has objected, we have completed the consideration of the matter, and we are about to move on to different kinds of things. Please point it on the board. Yes, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense," Jaroslav Georgette John the Rabbit is passing on. John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, there is a problem of the efficiency of privatised enterprises – clearly. Because the conditions are privatization, you could say, are not being largely implemented and the structure of production is changing, the nature of the economy itself is changing. And we can say today that Ukraine does not have a whole, full-fledged economic system, where the export-type industries under control of imports are developed, and most importantly, that we have an internal market based on production by a national producer. There is no such economy today. We have one clan in charge of exports, and they wanted the entire economy, the entire potential of Ukraine to work only on exports. And exports, you know, are always controlled by a small number of people, and that's why they all belong to a small group of people and they're protecting the whole nation. And there's a second political force that's taking care of imports, and they're driving into Ukraine, and they're creating special import support mechanisms. And there's no big business that's doing internal production today that's doing the internal market. And this requires a consumer, and this requires the doctrine of expensive labor. But according to this bill, I want to say this. It is unlikely that we can make such a general law today. We already have under current legislation we can turn private property into state property if the conditions of privatization are not met. I think a more productive direction would be to take very important businesses, not industries, because here someone was asking the question that if we went along the way, we would go a long way, and we would look at the Supreme Council as an example of what we are doing today in the economy by privatizing those or other enterprises that are very important. For example, there is a second bill that deals with a machine - built Hersonian factory. It's a so-called combine plant.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u119	Wait. Ukrainian Combin factory. For 20 years, Ukraine has been working to have its own combustible plant. He's not here. And it's really a conscious policy to destroy key enterprises that would give us the intellectualization of our activities. So if we go this way, I support the author. Because I can't agree that Ukraine hasn't released its combine in 20 years. It's that plane, only if there's one, two, three there's ten, one hundred planes, there's tens of thousands of high-tech companies going in there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u120	Gregory Smythuch, Party of Regions, prepare Tishchenko, the Yuli Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u121	Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! The idea that our colleague Peter Simonenko presented, I think, deserves to be discussed more widely and not by the presence of the deputies who are in the hall today. Unfortunately, patriots or those who speak patriots, or those who receive the Patriotic Order, are not in the hall today. And these patriots, which the heroes, including they get, have created nothing in our state. How did our nation survive? They're on hold. I do not agree with Peter Mikolaiovich, because the Soviet Union was created, nor did the Soviet Ukraine create, our people created, with their hands, our parents. People who worked day and night. But what has the state done today? Today’s state has failed to ensure the proper functioning of this object. Chaos that has entered our souls, our homes, our institutions, and so forth. And the leaders, of course, are the nations that are involved. That's why we don't have, Peter Mikolaiovich, and Black Sea steaming, which was really big in the world, not just in the Soviet Union. And a lot, a lot of other things. We've got one left, we've only got the land. We have only a fraction of the nadar left and we have to do everything we can to save for future generations at least this. Because future generations born to our mothers, they will be able to rebuild it with their own hands, build a house, build businesses, build ships, but they will never be able to restore resources, they will never be able to restore these resources, nor coal, nor iron ore, nor what is the basis for the normal development of the state. And certainly, such contempt for such fundamental issues has led many political powers to lose their independence in the full sense of the word. And for the benefit of both the West and the Americas and other countries, to make us poor and so on. What mechanisms? Because of different things, they didn't create jobs for us, they didn't give us the ability to technologically drive some equipment, rebuild an enterprise, and remember the conversion that came into the military-industrial complex. No, it's not. They took our workers out of the country who work there in their businesses and create an additional, ethno themselves. And they're restoring their jobs, their equipment, and so on. That's why I almost agree with this question. And there's one question I need to ask you about the combine plant. The scheme is very simple: 25 agrarian companies that made plows, combines and so on, built in one "Investholding" and sold 29 million dollars, that money came in, they went out the second day, they didn't go anywhere. And so 25 companies were stolen into the state. I have a question with the Attorney General's Office, I asked why this is happening, an offshore company with one founder in Switzerland Interlink stole 25 businesses, we're silent. Why?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u122	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u123	Why should we be silent? Because they may also be sinful, we need to stop and consider the future generation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u124	Tishenko Oleg Ivanovich, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Please, Yuri Odarchenko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u125	My dear colleagues, I am grateful that the presentations mentioned the report of the Interim Investigation Commission, which studied the activity of the State Holding "The Kragromashinvest" and the question of the bankruptcy of the Herson Combin Factory. We see that in the process of these holdings, a whole series of criminal offences have taken place in the process of transforming property. And it's really a question of why the prosecutor's office, even within the framework of existing legislation, doesn't study these issues. Unfortunately, the report of the Temporary Investigation Commission was not supported by a majority in the Supreme Council, but he studied the matter very carefully. And honourable colleagues, in the process of working, the commission was studying mechanisms that could have an impact on the processes that were taking place in the state. I wanted to offer Peter Mikolaiovich the following principle. First, to adopt a national strategy for the prioritization of certain industries in order to identify, not sectors, but individual enterprises that need to be assisted. And then through the Institute of Temporary State Administrations, we're going to introduce some management regime for these enterprises. This mechanism lays very well on our legislation, it supports the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which was adopted in 1950. And this mechanism is absolutely conducive, and it's possible for it to be accepted. If we are now going to consider this law, it is, in my view, unfortunately there is no prospect. Because it is overloaded with declarative positions that do not have the character of legal norms. More standards proposed are in grave conflict with the Constitution. Only through the adoption of the Strategic Priority Enterprises Programme and the introduction of a system of temporary government administrations can we move these processes, including, above all, the Herson Combin Factory. Dear friends! This is a matter that needs to be resolved. In fact, if the country has its own grain, we have third place in the world in grain production, we have our own metal, and we don't make our own combine. The mechanisms we're proposing will really help us get out of this. And now it seems to me that this bill needs to be seriously worked out in order for us to have real mechanisms to influence these situations, not declarations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u126	From the Communist faction to the word of Samuel Catherine Simeonovna, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, I apologize.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u127	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! I would like us to be responsible, considerate, and calm in our response to this bill. There's nothing to be afraid of. We need to determine the rules of the game with you. Please take a close look at this bill and it doesn't say that if we now vote for the law, which is written by the leader of the Simonenko Company, everything will be returned to the people tomorrow. No, it's not. And we don't ask the question, we ask the question differently, we say that we need to adopt a basic law that gives the state the right in the person of the Supreme Council for each particular enterprise to adopt a specific individual law. What is more, to adopt legislation in cases where the conditions of privatization are violated, when they are not implemented, when an enterprise is bankrupt, when it is necessary to take the state importance of an enterprise, when three quarters of those working in this privatized enterprise are going to the Supreme Council, to the government, asking it to return to the people's property, and so on and so forth. What was created by the people should belong to the people and work for the people. Or when, for example, a privatized enterprise is taken over by foreign firms, where foreign companies already take precedence over this enterprise, which is of national interest. I will no longer refer to the infamous Herson Combin Factory, around which we “break our spears” for almost a year and unfortunately we cannot solve this. I hope that as soon as possible, and the more it's in our agenda, we'll come back to that question again, and I can see that the situation in the session room is coming to light, that we're actually going to bring the Herson Combin factory back into state ownership, and we're going to show that the state is in charge of these processes. Now, please tell me, who runs state property? Nobody. It's like the State Property Fund, but it's a fiction, sorry, nobody controls anything. Everything that's in state property today is in private hands. Because the Ministry doesn't run this, the State Property Fund doesn't do that, they do other problems, and it turns out it's absolutely like they say it's irrelevant. I'm here to conclude, to conclude, and to prove that we need to adopt this basic law, which, once again, I emphasize, does not pose a threat to private owners if they work for the state. I'm going to give you some figures from the Cabinet of Ministers, and they recently put together, in early January, a list of companies that can be raided, in this list of 128 companies that are facing fate like the Hersonian Combinian or maybe some other. I'm asking you, let's support this basic law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u128	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, we must consult. All factions were willing to delegate their representatives, and we still have the MP's body to discuss. If we didn't insist, because we've already intervened in the Razna to stop and vote in factions, would there be no objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u129	There's no objection. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for decision-making. I'm putting the bill on the ground. A bill on the return of property of the basic sectors of the national economy, which are owned by citizens and legal persons, to the property of the State. [[No. 1104]] [[nationalization]] Author of the bill, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko. Please vote. [[13:14:05]] For-34 For -34, versus -0.3 - held. The factions, please. Region Party 3, Timoshenko Yulia Block 4, Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense - 1, Communists - 26, Litvina Block - 0, non-fractional - 0. Dear colleagues, the bill has been rejected. Let us move on to the “Various One. ” Please prepare, we are recording a performance in the “Variable”. Light up, please. Yes, Kilinkarov. Samuel Catherine Seminovna, a faction of Communists, prepare for Caletnick.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, dear Mikola Volodymyrovich, I also wish to address you, including a very large request. Please help us find the Head of the Herson District Administration with the help of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ukrainian Security Service and the Attorney General's Office. After the first round of elections, he disappeared. He's gone. There's no one to sign the papers, there's no one to raise the urgent questions that have now arisen in front of the population of the Hersonian region. It's not just the words and not the pear, as the ex-head of the holding fund here said, that instead of protecting the holdman, he's been embalmed, and that's really an emergency. The economy that she wouldn't be in the area and living with her life in the area needs someone to manage and someone to answer for it. I'm really serious about this. Because the problem is flooding, and it reminds us once again that we have a number of the population of the Zurupina region, the Genician region, the Kalanchi district, the Chaplin region, the Novotroitsky region are flooded today. They're using lists to contact the district government. There's no head. He hid himself from the image he had brought, and none of the deputy heads were going to address the Cabinet of Ministers with the funds allocated from the Cabinet of Ministers' Reserve Fund for the elimination of this natural disaster. Today you have heard that no business works. That, in practice, the polluted land of the Black Sea, the Azova Sea, is credited to the wife of the head of the district administration with millions of dollars for the so - called service rendered. Tell me, would you and I, dear fellows, want there to be a desert after us? So that we don't inherit anything from our children? Please tell the acting head of our head of state -- you want us to leave the desert behind. I'm addressing all our structures, help me find them, handcuff the head of the Herson District Administration, and force him to carry out his duties.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u131	National deputy Kaletnik gives the word to Sergei Vladimirovich Gordijenko. To prepare Philenko Volodymyr Pilipovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u132	Honorable Chairman, Honourable Citizens of Ukraine! Today, the Ukrainian people look forward to the time when the final minutes and seconds of this present power will come to an end. The most appalled president of Ukraine today is taking steps that are not only understandable to his administrations and his nukers throughout Ukraine but also to the world’s public. I'm talking about dozens and hundreds of awards that don't fit in at all. I'm talking here from this rostrum about the decrees he's taking. In these hands, I hold the citizens' and councils of the Orgitsky region of Poltava, Seminovian, Globensky, Cherkas region, where, contrary to the interests of the territorial communities of Poltavščina and these areas, the President of Ukraine on 10 February this year passed decree 175 on the creation of the National Natural Park “Lowernosulski”, which removed 18,000 hectares of land to create this same park, so that its transfer into private hands will be followed. People are denied access to their natural habitats, to recreation, to hunting. In accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the Natural and Inventory Fund, this is regulated by articles 51 and 53, these procedures should be followed. and agreement with the local communities and local councils. This was not done. And people are writing that the Black Bay District Council, by its decision of 18 April 2008, on the situation of the establishment of the park, strongly denies it. The inhabitants of the villages of these areas object. But without regard for people, this decree is accepted. This president and this authority, as my colleague has just spoken, have shown complete legal lawlessness. And I would like to say and warn people about the future. It all began with a loud noise; it ended with a great misunderstanding, and here those in the scarfs were brought to the roost, a great responsibility, and ended up with the reward of those who had nothing to do with the work of the people; they were rewarded for stealing the story for having copied it, for having plundered it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u133	Please, Philenka Volodymyr Pilipovich's microphone, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko, to prepare Michael Wolinz.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u134	Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues. Vladimir Filenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. I want to start with a simple statement that stealing, in principle, is bad, even if it's the voter's vote, it's also bad. I'm going to talk about falsifications whose history in Ukraine is colorful and rich. As a person who has been in active politics for more than 20 years, I can say that the first and only relatively fair elections in Ukraine were elections to parliament in 1990. And then it started, and what we didn't see, we saw lists of frauds, bribery of commission members, counterfeiting of protocols, we saw Greek voices, carousel with photos, bribes, mass illness on election day, looking at the districts, parallel servers and so on, and so on. This was usually the case with one political force, which we used to call a “house of cities”, now modestly referred to as “regions”. In 2004, massive falsifications were countered by massive popular opposition, which contributed to the establishment of true national will. Counterfeiting in Ukraine was thought to be over forever. Whatever. The election of the 10th year has once again demonstrated to us, and to the world, the entire non-gentleman set of distortions of the people's will. The most damaging was the presidential election law, which was raped by the “regions” and, in fact, two positions — voting at home without medical help and permission to change the list on election day. The court has stopped these rules, but the “regional” control of the CEC has ignored this ban. I will not use detailed examples in specific areas, many of them in the submission of Timoshenko to the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine. However, there is only one messenger: You can find offices where more than 30 percent of those who seem to have become ill and voted at home have voted. In Ukraine alone, this amounted to 1 million,382 thousand,865 voters, much more than in the previous presidential and parliamentary elections. Another example. 200 voters vote at home for 720 minutes. It's less than four minutes per person. Those sprinters running with boxes would be sent to Vancouver, or ours wouldn't be enough to run properly. I think it's just physically impossible. Hundreds of thousands of voters are listed on the day of the vote — 293,000. Such results raise many questions and doubts. It is not enough that the Party of Regions has offered Ukraine a candidate with questionable history and with questionable knowledge that we can still have questionable results of the elections.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u135	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u136	Exit one: a quiet count of results. We have legal, political, and moral grounds for this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u137	I would like to invite Michael Wolinz, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. The next was Andrew Parubius, who was given the word Kulczynski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, respected TV setters, respected radio audiences! Today, the case for the appointment of a candidate to the Presidents of the Yulia Volodymyrovna Timoshenko in the Supreme Administrative Court for violations of the Presidential Election Act of Ukraine continues. For unclear reasons and under the pressure of the Party of the Regions, the judges decided to stop broadcasting directly to the proceedings. So Ukrainian citizens are unable to hear the truth about the systemic violations that took place during the President's first round of elections. They do not have the opportunity to hear all the information about the court’s proceedings. In addition, today, the newspaper “Today”, belonging to the oligarch Renata Ahmetov, who is the spiritual father of Viktor Yanukovic, tells and provides false information about the candidate for President Yulia Timoshenko and the government she leads. It literally says that the government has made the purchase of unbuilt housing available in its structures. And there's no more absolute truth to the fact that in fact, in the Donetsk region, the government has built 11 unbuilt buildings -- that's over 600 apartments. In this regard, disabled workers, the Great Homeland War, Afghans, other 30 - year - olds, and 40 - year - olds took turns in obtaining housing. I personally went to the city of Amurosívka in the Donetsk region, where two houses seemed to be in turn and where 27 years had not been rented and no housing had been built for these categories of workers. And I want to give you some examples of what the actual violations were in the Donetsk region. For example, on the election day of February 7, three times there were calls to the head of the headquarters of the “Julia Timoshenko” – this is in the Donetsk Region – Simasko Svetlani Valeriyovni, who was simply explained, threatened in an uncensored form with acid. Next. Cauliflower Tamari Vasilivni was called three times, head of District No. 9, a polling station in the city of Dimitrov, and asked if she wanted to live. Next. Kovalenko, Roman Volodymyr, was on the phone and asked if she agreed to lose the child. Others, such as Larissa Ivanovni Posini, a child - care worker who rears her own garden without a husband of two, were told that she had been fired from her job in connection with the fact that she had made an act of violation in the constituency. Surprisingly, she was contacted by Zimbabwean Nadia Grigorovna, who is an inspector of the Krasnomian Horon. For example, Lashenko Andriy Henadaiyovich, who is the mayor of Krasnomyski, headed the headquarters of the Party of the Regions, led the eye.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u139	Let me finish, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u140	And at the time when the Posin I mentioned asked the prosecutor about the violation of electoral legislation, other examples explained in the prosecutor's office in oral form that there were no violations and no one was brought to account. At the same time, no one gave a written answer. I want to say that these violations took place under the cover of the forces, the militias of the city of Krasnomiya, the city of Dimitrov and other cities in the Donetsk region. This was done under the cover of the local prosecutor’s office and local criminal structures. In addition, the organization was organized. And it was the representatives of the Party of the Regions who were on the commission, or as observers, who reported that the relevant structures that had not yet been able to vote and then went to the house to those who had not voted and were invited to go to the vote and to drive in an organized manner, or simply in a rough form, those people were being delivered to the field to be able to vote and, of course, an explanation was given as to which of the candidates to vote for. What I want to say is that when I, as a national MP, tried to support people who were intimidated, I explained that no one would fire them, that we would protect these people, that I was constantly followed by a car. And yet when I turned to the police and tried to stop this car, the driver tried to just move me, and only then did the DAI staff jump in and stop the car. But they made an act that it was an angry disobedience to the police and that man did not stop. When we looked at the orientation, it turned out that this person was in the search -- that's the first one. Next, the police gave absolutely no answer, and they didn't notice that I was a national MP and they responded to my statement one-sidedly. Thus, those who followed legislation, who were not selling, who were trying to take an honest position, today were under pressure. And it's up to the court to deal with these issues today, but I'm surprised that it was the Party of Regions that blocked the court and made the judges pressurized and stopped, decided to stop the broadcast live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u141	Andrey Parubius, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". To prepare for Vladimir Yavorowski, "Timoshenko Street".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u142	Papuy Andry, “Our Ukraine”, the MP group “For Ukraine!” Dear Ukrainians, the day after tomorrow, we will all be celebrating the Day of our mother tongue. By the age of 19, the existence of the Ukrainian State in Ukraine would not seem to raise any questions about the use of Ukrainian. Instead, we see strange things. On the one hand, we hear statements from one of the presidential candidates that he will try to introduce Russian as the second national language. We have already stated that we will be very hard and determined to deal with such attempts. But today I would like to sound another fact that has taken place in the territory of our country literally in recent months. In Pavlovgrad Dnipropetrovsk district, 18 employees of the business “Budmeister” were released only for speaking Ukrainian. This was done cynically, brutally, and eloquently. On November 18, 2009, one head of government, Slunkov, Blashkowski, and Butenko, decided to ban the use of Ukrainian in their employees’ territory. I want to read a letter sent by Slunkov to one of Szczerbak's employees about the use of Ukrainian. In this letter he notes: “Today everyone serves inappropriate use in our joint business of Ukrainian language I will rate 10 bracelets from your prize. I'm warning you, it's not a joke. Moreover, if such Messianic education in the factory develops, we will inevitably face a conflict. Please think seriously.” And when people refused to think that they were forbidden to use their native language in their own country, they were freed from the company one by one. And Slunkov was not enough, there was enough insolence to declare publicly: “This peace is so established that there are owners, owners. And if the employees are hired, they are obliged to comply with the decision of the masters. That is how they now refer to both the Ukrainian State and the Ukrainian language. On the central channel, this Slunkov stated publicly that “the decision of the shareholders was due to the fact that the use of Ukrainian as a slogan had become an end in itself.” And I'd like to say, who's Slunkov? And I'll tell you, this is the head of the Yulia Timoshenko faction at the Pavlovgrad City Council. And I'd like to go to the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, which we have here today in Galician, trying to imagine how the great, ideal fighters for Ukrainian language are the representatives of a national camp. It's a big fake, and it's a big double standard, what happens in Poltava, where your mayor destroys Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u143	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u144	Where your mayors destroy Ukrainian history, Ukrainian culture. In Pavlovgrad, where your activists, high officials ban the use of Ukrainian for our citizens who are not only ashamed of their language in eastern Ukraine but also advocate it. I asked the Attorney General today, and I promise we will take control of this situation and investigate it until the last day. We will support those people. And today, I'm calling on the Yulia Tymoshenko Block to sort out this situation so that you can finally protect the Ukrainians from your bullish officials, who are on site destroying everything in Ukrainian and destroying Ukrainian language. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u145	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Prepare John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u146	Dear Ukrainian voters! I'm addressing you first, because there's still a few people left. Sometime in the early 1990s, when the first democratic elections took place to the Russian Duma, the Parliament of the Russian Federation, there was a direct broadcast from the Central Election Commission and a prominent Russian publicist, a man of high honour and morale in Korakin, when he heard about the victory of the Fat and Communists, he took his head and cried out, and the broadcast was all over Europe, he exclaimed, "Russia, you're out of your mind!" I am convinced that on February 7, 11.5 million Ukrainians could say the same thing about Ukraine. But I went up to the rostrum today because we're all a little chilly, we're using some new reality that might be completely inevitable, so I'd like to give you, dear Ukraine, a few signals. First, you can see that there is a beginning, a resurgence of Ukrainian selfishness or Ukrainian national insanity. The person who spoke to me today again appeals to some people from the Yuli Block of Tymoshenko in the city council and once again oppresses the situation of a great wrestler for the Ukrainian language, for the Ukrainian idea. So why did you encourage people not to go to the elections and actually bring Yanukovich to power today, and now you're crying, you've got a job now, but I'm not talking about it right now. I want to calm the Ukrainians down, believe me, if there's gonna be a court decision, and judging from everything that the court's already figured out where he's at, you know the fine statements they've made today without coming to power. How eager their today to take Ukraine into their fists quickly, fold their tongue, fold our European choices, collapse our gas transport system, it's absolutely in front of their eyes. They haven't come to power yet, and they're already trying to do it. I want to say that Ukraine isn't the same anymore, it's not even 2004, it's 2010. Because of this, I am convinced that the thinking Ukraine, the 11 million that it is today, we will not allow Ukraine to surrender, we will not allow its sovereignty to be shaken, we will not allow its democratic values to be swayed. I want to thank you today, they're all gone, they're all gone to share the portfolios. I really want to thank the Party of the Regions, it's a genius faction, listen, we don't have to do anything to keep the faction as far as it's concerned. But one day yesterday, they're going to totally push our Ukraine away from them, they didn't vote for giving the nationals that the Ukrainian people have the right to celebrate, they didn't vote for the identity of the Ukrainian nation before the global challenges, they're voting against everything where there's a tiny Ukrainian spirit. Because I'm convinced that they came for a while, it's theirs.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u147	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u148	Their ball will end very and very quickly, and you will see for yourself, those who even voted for it, in absolute inability for them to rule a country like Ukraine. And I want to remind you that "the best thing to do is to keep the nombs on the horns of the devil." Remember!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u149	Dear colleagues! I would like to remind our national deputies that we are now working in the "Rizzne" regime, which does not provide for the participation of all national MPs, because we do not make decisions. [[Ivan Alexandrovich, wait a second.]] The point is that every national MP can inform about their political position, about the situation in the district, and I think that the appeal to the electorate to our citizens is absolutely correct. The rabbit Ivan Aleksandrovich was handed over to him by a colleague, including Jaroslav Jódzik — six minutes’ notice. Next Eugene Kzarykov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u150	John Rabbit of the Ukrainian People's Party. Dear National Deputies! Respectable compatriots! Today, we hear an electoral campaign evaluation from all over the world. I want to say the same thing with a few words on this point. From my point of view, the elections took place in Ukraine, not within the framework of ideology and the Constitution, because if there was an electoral campaign within the ideology and the Constitution, we would hear three things from the presidential candidates. First. They would acquit their electors in such words that I am responsible for the Constitution, for foreign policy. And I'm going to do it in this kind of and this kind of direction, something like that. I'm responsible for the security of the state and I'm going to do it in this way. I stand for the Constitution as a guarantor of the Constitution, a guarantor of human rights, so I'm going to provide them with this technology again. We don't have the election campaign under those terms. We have an election campaign under the motto of monopolizing power in the hands of a political power. Because the candidates said if you elected me president, I'd do whatever you wanted. And they start from economy to foreign policy, from urban problems to national problems and so on. Clearly, if this was the case, these people want to group power in all hands today, they want to have -- both the Presidential Post, and the Cabinet of Ministers, and the government administrations, and the courts, and everything else. [[winners]] This is not the correct understanding of the system of government that is set out in the Constitution today, because we have today, not the presidential form of government, we have today, not the totalitarian organization of power, but the parliamentary-presidential form of government, the republic. Moreover, this electoral campaign and the political powers of some have been under the slogan of dismantling the conquests in the sphere of European choice, democratization, and the spiritual restoration of Ukraine. Do you remember what the Party of Regions said? That they were going to pursue a second Russian language, they were saying that we should be a neutral state, not go to NATO, as all our neighbours in Europe did. They said that the national identity of today doesn't play any role that we need above national institutions, because we live in a globalized world and so on. It's nothing less than the ideology of dismantling those conquests of the Ukrainian nation that we've had in recent years. And we have to prevent the policy of rematch, we have to stop these people. One of the deputies who pointed out that there were several deputies in Pavlovgrad, as I understand them, who were the directors of the Business Observatory, who forbade their employees from speaking Ukrainian, is where the Constitution states in its 10th article that the Ukrainian language is the national language. What's he talking about? It's not just a misunderstanding of the process, it's saying that these leaders have committed a criminal crime, that these people today don't recognize the Constitution, that these people don't recognize the law today, and these people have to be punished, there's got to be a criminal case, and they have to take responsibility because they're destroying our state system, they're undermining our national type of Ukrainian state. Let's move on. On February 17, the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea adopted a decree approving the draft law in which they want to address their lobbyists, who are members of the Supreme Council, to amend 136 articles of the Constitution, part one. To be recorded in our Constitution, the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea is the official name of the representative body of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea in Russian. What does this talk about? This suggests that they cannot today tolerate the nationality of the Ukrainian language by changing the 10th article of the Constitution, they are going around. Again, I would appreciate such a policy from such a symbolic line as a policy of separatism. It's an effort. Ukraine, that is, to create areas in Ukraine where there are foreign troops, and where there are foreign troops, there may be military conflict. They just want to destroy just the unitary kind of Ukrainian state. And you don't need to underestimate that step. You, the national deputies, are wise, and you know that in a legal sense such an initiative will not go through the Supreme Council. But the deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea also know that they will find it very difficult to implement this initiative. But they don't need it today. Since this initiative is a certain symbol, it is a certain request, a sign that the fifth column is raising its head today. So, I urge you, all of Ukraine's patriots today, not to let this rematch policy take place, to defend those achievements in the state-making processes that we've won over the past 20 years. And I am convinced that all Ukrainians will not allow today to abuse our Constitution and will not allow our Constitution to change part of our national identity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u151	Eugene Kzarkov, Communist faction. Next is Stanislav Arzhavitin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u152	Respectable voters, respected Ukrainian deputies! Yesterday, meetings were held by the Special Monitoring Commission on Privatization of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And thanks to the clear position of the faction of the Company of Ukraine, its leader, Peter Simonenko, and the chairman of this commission, Eugenia Marmazov, we have succeeded in removing the issue of the sale of a number of public enterprises. The most important is the Odessa Cinema, as well as the suspension of the privatisation of the Krayan plant, Centrolite and Orion. But from the rostrum of Parliament, the question has to be raised again about the attempt to take on the largest industrial enterprise in southern Ukraine the Orion machine-building production unit. In accordance with articles 40 and 60 of the Ukrainian Constitution, I was approached by the employees and the management of the business. It is not the first time that raids are carried out by means of frontal documents, the subjugation of officials and the deception of a machine-building association that is located in all four major areas of the city of Odessa, as well as on the coast, the delinquents and officials have declared a genuine criminal hunt. Surprisingly, the public sector is directly involved in such actions, most importantly the State Property Fund of Ukraine, both in Kiev and at the regional level. With the help of coffee shops, the “State husbands” are the fictitious bankruptcy of the largest enterprise, the falsified register of their names, and the dissolution of government property worth more than 50 million bracelets. Consider, for example, the 16th-tier hotel complex of the Orion health resort, which is located on the Black Sea coast at the famous 8th Great Fountain Station, a total area of 14.5,000 metres, was sold for 2 million bracelets. That's $200,000 today, that's the price of a three-bedroom apartment in the same Odessa. A three - story hotel building of 3,000 feet [3,000 m] was sold for 69,000 bracelets in coffee shops as construction materials. The President of the Government of the State Enterprise is constantly being threatened, and a recent attempt on his life has been made. The 50 plus 1 stock control package is in the hands of the State. The regional representatives of the State, instead of helping the enterprise, pretend to be quiet in the Odessa region. On the basis of the above, I request the Office of the Attorney-General, the Ukrainian Security Service, the Ministry of Internal Affairs to establish an interdepartmental investigation commission without delay and to send it directly to the city of Odessa for further investigation into flagrant cases of the looting of State property. Separately, please draw the attention of law enforcement officials to the activities of the regional public property fund in the Odessa region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u153	I invite Stanislav Arzvetin to prepare Michael Sokolov, whose word is given by the Vetwicki People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u154	Stanislaw Arzhevtin, a deputy group “For Ukraine!” The parliamentary group “For Ukraine!” urges the Supreme Council to put an end to electoral opposition and move on to normal legislative work. This means, first of all, the unbiased formation of the agenda, as well as the consideration and voting of laws, resulting from their importance to the state, not from narrow party interests. So first of all, we demand that we include in the agenda of the daily session all the bills that have been removed in favour of the Communist faction, both the BUIT and the Party of the Regions. We insist that the 16 bills submitted by President Viktor Yushchenko of Ukraine and the “For Ukraine” groups be restored to the order of the day. In addition, we insist that two important humanitarian bills introduced by Viacheslav Kirilenko be considered in the near future — Bill 5544, which regulates independent appreciation of the knowledge of school graduates, and Bill 4298, on a national cultural product that will contribute to the development and promotion of Ukrainian cinematography, music, theatre accounting, and culture. An example of political opposition in the Supreme Council, rather than in state law, is yesterday's non-vote by the BUT faction and the faction of the regions for a bill to overcome the negative effects of the financial crisis, which improved the management conditions of enterprises in today's difficult conditions. Among other things, this bill was designed to improve the conditions of external economic activity for our exporters. The return of proceeds in foreign currency was allowed not in 90 calendar days, but in 180.Why was neither the Party of Regions nor the BUIT voted in favour? The bill recorded moratoriums on the repatriation of income, recorded moratoriums on the early return of loans and loans by resident borrowers. All those who voted in favour of such proposals should understand that we are pushing our country to technical defaults, lowering our country's ratings in international markets, pushing investors away. This bill, among other things, has also improved the mechanisms for restructuring mortgage loans for our Ukrainians. Why did the political ambitions of these two major factions throw away these economic problems of businesses and our Ukrainians? The parliamentary group “For Ukraine!” will do its utmost to return to these issues in the near future, which improve the business conditions of economic operators in the context of a financial crisis.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u155	I invite Mikhail Sokolov, who was given the word Vetwicki. The next is Alla Alexandrovska, who was given the word Catherine Samuelk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u156	Good afternoon, respectable colleagues, respectable friends! I would like to draw attention to the fact that, on 7 February, on the second round of elections in eastern Ukraine, unfortunately, our citizens were unable to move on public transport, which today dominates, route taxis, to work for those working on Sunday, were not able to move towards train stations and other important sites. What's the reason? A Party of regions is being held in preparation for elections, contrary to the decision of the Central Electoral Commission, contrary to section 39, part two, of the Electoral Act, that the delivery of voters to polling stations can only be made from the State budget and can only be organized by district electoral commissions and divisive electoral commissions. Thus, in the town of Dnepropetrovsk and Dnepropetrovsk, out of the 1 million voters, about half a million voters were taken to polling stations according to the previously produced lists of the Party of the Regions. Fewly, the Party of the Regions has been embarrassed and prepared in the local press such short routes of transportation of voters according to pre-prepared lists to polling stations, removing from the route networks that drive through the city and the intercity routes of our ordinary citizens. The Party of the Regions has also posted a characteristic colour with handwritten material, which, please note, does not contain output data, which confirms a grave violation of the law, also criminalizing 157 and 158 articles, which involve extensive deprivation of liberty. And these announcements indicated the specific addresses of the polling stations to which voters had been brought. These are egregious cases and facts that will be heard today by the representatives of Yulia Vladimirovna Timoshenko in court provide all these materials in order for the court to take a fair and informed decision on this matter. I would also like to say that the mass cases by our observers and representatives of the Yulia Timoshenko bloc have been detected by the vote of persons who have, unfortunately, died or been discharged. For example, Doberniak Anatoly Andreevich, who died 25.09.99, voted on the death certificate. His wife was shocked to see his signature and her husband’s supposed bulletin. These are the cases of thousands in every city that makes up millions. Therefore, the choice that has been made.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u157	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u158	which has been made by seven numbers, it does not correspond to our true will with you. I hope that the court will put an end to this and put everything in place.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u159	Alla Alexandrovska, Communist faction. Prepare Koryu Vitaliy Terentiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u160	Respectable comrades, respected TV and radio audiences! In addressing you, I would like to say that today we are witnessing the cynical abuse of the office of a senior official in Ukraine, Victor Yushchenko, President of Ukraine. How else can the assignment of the name Hero of Ukraine and public awards or direct criminals such as Shuhević and Banderé be seen or persons of dubious reputation, as has been the case in recent days? The simple question is: Why does Victor Yushchenko do this? Remember the phrase from one anecdotes: “I don’t eat, do I overwhelm”? Greed is often boundless, but more terrifying when evil becomes boundless, even if it is done by a president who does not stop at all in his desire to do evil. Instead of working succinctly to strengthen both the self-esteem of the people of Ukraine and respect for Ukraine by other countries, Yushchenko has done everything possible to divide the people of Ukraine, to make Ukraine an unforeseeable State, as the bitter irony is spoken of today's Ukraine. Those in Ukraine who have a conscience cannot quietly observe Yushchenko's loyalty to fascism in Ukraine, how nationalism has become a key pillar of Ukraine's policies, and how these processes are welcomed and continued by Prime Minister Timoshenko. It is not possible to observe peacefully how, instead of the worship of Bogdan Hmelnicki, who achieved the reunification of Ukraine and Russia, which was welcomed by all the people of the then Gethtmanate, President Yushchenko sent for the heroization of Mazepa, who handed over everything and everything throughout his life. It is not possible for honest people in Ukraine to take offense not only to assign the name Hero of Ukraine to the Fascist adepts, as I have already said, to the criminals Shuhevich and Bander, the direct culprits of the deaths of hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians, Belarusians, Poles, Jews, people of other nationalities, whose fault was only that they were in the way of meeting the bloodthirsty ambitions of these inhumanes. It is also impossible to accept that President Yushchenko divides the people of Ukraine into an indigenous and non-indigenous nation, into people of the first and second classes. We are all equal citizens: both Ukrainians living in western Ukraine and Russian citizens living in the east and south for centuries. For me, the inhabitants of Slobojanina, Ukrainians of nationality, as for many Ukrainians, are native to two languages: Ukrainian and Russian. I cannot divide my heart and my soul into two parts: Ukrainian and Russian. So the President's desire to pretend that I don't exist offends me. And I view his policies as a direct threat to my spiritual world as an invasion of my freedom. I welcome you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u161	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u162	I welcome the defeat of Yushchenko in the presidential elections and regard their results as a negative policy of fascism and oppression of nationalism in Ukraine. Yushchenko's decrees on the assignment of the title “Hero of Ukraine” to Shuhević and Bandera, as well as others that offend the sense of dignity and demean the people of Ukraine, should be repealed. This is not only my request, but also the demand of all the honest people of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u163	I would like to invite Korža Vitaliy Terentiyovich, faction of the “Julia Timoshenko Block”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u164	Dear chairman, distinguished voters, colleagues! For the second week in a row, we see an interesting phenomenon in our nation's highest legislative institution, the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This phenomenon is that certain legislators, who should set an example of compliance with the Constitution of Ukraine, provide an obvious example of a violation of the Constitution, a violation of the law on which the guard should stand. Public references by the “regionals” to the government and the prime minister demanding that the seat be released have been particularly active when the official results of the President's election have not yet been announced. Because the CEC has given proper consideration to important electoral documents, including photographs of numerous cases of falsifications that have affected the results of the elections. But despite the obvious situation, we have heard many hysterical calls from the “regionals” that, contrary to the Constitution, require an active government to release a seat. In virtually every speech by the members of the Party of Regions, we hear this illegal refrain of freeing space for, as they say, professionals. For those of you who have forgotten, I will remind you that when the government, so-called professionals started with Viktor Yanukovic, opened up a place for today's government with Julius Timoshenko, these “professionals” left behind inflation, spread to 20 percent, almost empty gas shelters, a 1.5 billion dollar debt to Russia. They left traces of the silence sold to four students for copies of the Ukrainian Naphtegasian Naphtegasian Descent Prikerchenské, an area of 16,000 square kilometres on our Ukrainian shelf, left their legacy of the sad speculative “Rosukreenergo” with the Fertashev private contra in Switzerland, where Ukrainian money was settled from gas calculations with Russia. I am no longer talking about the famous “acceptance” affair about the Mezigiriya conservation ceremony, about the sad agreement on the supply of airplanes to Libya, which the government has entrusted to professionals, transferred money to Ukraine for. But Livia and the planes didn't get it, and the money's gone. Therefore, it is worth reminding. An active government under the leadership of Julia Timoshenko will not allow for hysterical regional calls. And I'm reporting to the voters. What if the current government under the leadership of Yulia Timoshenko is ever required under article 115 of the Ukrainian Constitution to exercise authority after it is formed and if a new coalition is formed, that government is not.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u165	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u166	So this government will not leave behind any affairs, no unpaid debts, and no widespread inflation. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-19-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, let me remind you that next week the national MPs are working with the electorate. In accordance with a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on February 25, 2010, there will be a 10 o’clock special session devoted to the formation of an oath by the newly elected President of Ukraine. But I think this meeting should be considered in the context of today's session of the Supreme Administrative Court. In accordance with the results that we will hear from the Supreme Administrative Court, there will be a seat and a meeting that has been voted on by most of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will take place on March 2, 2010. Thus, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
