ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:57]] The 409 national deputies registered in the session hall, and the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine declared open. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our colleagues Ariev Vladimir Igorovich and Klimov Leonid Mikhailovich. [[Applause]] Let us welcome our colleagues and wish them good health and success in responsible work. I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at plenary meetings on 30 March 2010. Eight issues of the agenda were discussed, four bills were adopted on a basis, three bills and one draft decree were rejected. Dear colleagues, I give you an announcement. In accordance with article 61 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, according to my personal signature, I report the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine into the coalition of the MP factions “Stability and Reform” in the Supreme Council of the appointment of Kuzman Peter Pavlovich. [[Applause]] Honorable national MPs, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, are on Wednesday 30 minutes away from speaking to the national deputies of Ukraine with proposals, announcements, and messages. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the speech. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. People's deputy Sanchenko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko, please. Next is Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u2	Vladimir Mikhailovich, 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u3	Who else is giving you this?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u4	Well, there's our next one.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u5	Who's next?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u6	Shishkina
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u7	Shishkina. Yes, please. That is, since national deputy Sanchenko and national deputy Shishkin passed on the right to speak to Oleg Laško, 6 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u8	Respectful citizens of Ukraine, today’s authorities are urging us to understand, cooperate, and join forces. We're ready for this. But not in the realm of constitutional riots and door intrigues. We believe that we need to begin immediately with solving the main problems of the country's socio-economic life. Today’s authorities have every opportunity to do so: their president, their government, the majority in Parliament, the National Bank, their power structures, their governors. So don't sit back, gentlemen, at the start. As we went to power, our opponents promised radical support to small and medium-sized businesses. But where are their laws on this matter? And they're not here until today. Millions of voters supported Yanukovich by seducing promises of a substantial increase in social benefits, an increase in pensions, support for the birth and upbringing of children, state support for the needy, disabled, veterans, and students. But where are the relevant bills? They don't come from power. Even those who have been registered before, today’s coalition does not support it. We have warned Ukrainian citizens that the promises of the Party of Regions are being expressed, as the people say, by dancing. So they have developed and registered these necessary bills to help meet the social needs of millions of Ukrainians this year. I call them 5183, 2230, 4052, 5294, 1159, 2537, 6164, 6165, 6167. We suggest that they be considered immediately to provide for the cost of the new budget. Now to the topic of the International Monetary Fund. How many charges have there been against the previous government for cooperating with this organization? But when we got the loans, we didn't raise the price of gas for citizens and tariffs for housing services, we didn't raise the retirement age, and we kept a lot of other social guarantees. Sadly, however, that is why the new authorities began their work. Everyone today is also concerned about tax reform, modernization, innovation and investment, and the fight against corruption is impossible without transformations in this area. During the elections, valid authorities promised to reduce existing taxes, and for small businesses in general to introduce five - year - old tax holidays. Again, we did not wait for the authority of the corresponding bills. In anticipation of this development, we have registered these bills. Their numbers are 6166, 6163 and others. So we insist on urgent consideration of these very important issues for society, so that we do not lose sight of the 2011 reform process. I would also like to say that the requirements of the Supreme Council Rules Act are met. Article 84 of the Supreme Council Rules of Procedure provides that opposition is to be withdrawn by committees, a number of committees, such as the budget, the Rules, justice, freedom of speech and information, and a number of key other committees. Unfortunately, at a meeting yesterday at the Supreme Council, most factions did not agree to comply with the law to allow the opposition to have real control functions in order to monitor the authorities. Our faction of the “Blanket of Yulia Timoshenko” insists on unconditional compliance with the requirements of the Supreme Council Rules of Procedure Act and warns of the impermissibility of its violation. If the authority that has everything to do today is afraid to even give up the opposition control functions in order for the opposition to have the power to control it, this power cannot be called democratic. In addition, I would like to point out that, according to the Rules of Procedure Act, faction leaders cannot be the heads of the Supreme Council committees. It is also a violation of the rules that we now see in the Supreme Council. Similarly, a number of assignments have been accomplished. Yesterday 22 deputies took an oath, but there are still a number of deputies who were appointed to the executive branch and did not take an oath. And they didn't sign the papers. Therefore, we call for adherence to the requirements of the Constitution and for applications for the cessation of parliamentary powers. And we're addressing the majority in the room, please comply with the requirements of the law, give us the rights that the opposition has, you're already illegally, in an unconstitutional way, you've been given power, and today you're illegally trying to deny the opposition to the ability to control power. The Yulia Timoshenko faction reports all efforts to protect the law, such as the Law on the Rules and the Constitution of Ukraine in part of the rights of the opposition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u9	Mikhailo Chechetov is referring to Anatoly Kirilovich Kinah, a faction of the Party of the Regions. The next one's going to be the party.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u10	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! Our country of Ukraine is inextricably integrated into European and global economic and political space. And, of course, the strategic goal is to create on Ukrainian soil modern standards of economy, human well-being, democracy, the rule of law. In fact, this is a strategic goal that should unite everyone in this room and in society regardless of the political color. It is essential that conditions of integration correspond to the national interests of Ukraine, especially in terms of the protection of the honour, dignity and rights of Ukrainian citizens. In recent years, Ukraine has taken unprecedented unilateral steps to introduce a visa-free regime with regard to citizens of the European Union member states since 2005. Signed under the conditions of increasing the problems of illegal migration of the Readmission Agreement. However, despite the fact that the ratified Visa Facilitation Agreement “Ukraine-EU” was ratified in January 2008, a huge number of cases confirm the gross violation of the honour, dignity, rights of Ukrainian citizens in the conduct of visa procedures with regard to the European Union States. In Ukraine’s embassies, the EU demands a huge variety of information, a lack of copies, a requirement for this to be confirmed, and in some cases even physical health information. A large number of cases of refusal to form an unexplained carriage. And the citizen of Ukraine, who has such an image in his passport, essentially becomes a non-grat person in the European Union. The terms of the price drop are being raised, and the huge number of middle-sized firms at the embassies of the EU States are doubling the cost. Therefore, the honourable national MPs, when Ukraine is preparing a basic association agreement with the European Union, the terms of free trade, are of fundamental importance to the protection of the principle of equal partnership, honour, the rights of Ukrainian citizens in relation to the European Union. I'm asking for this information, this presentation, to form as the position of the faction of the Party of the Regions, to appeal to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to strengthen the relevant negotiations, to work to create the visa-free regime of Ukraine-EU and to protect the honour of our state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u11	National Deputy Evening, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u12	Evening Vladimir Nikolajevic, faction Party region. I give the floor to the people's deputy Kuzmuk, Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u13	Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk, faction of the Party of the Regions. Viacheslav Kirilenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u14	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The actions of the former authorities to strengthen the security of the state, to develop its armed forces, have led to some consequences. First. The technical state of weapons and military technology is critical. The material and technical security of the Armed Forces is catastrophic, the budget for national defence is pathetic, the state of the military corps is proven beyond poverty, dramatic. President of Ukraine, Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces, Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic, assesses the state of defence of the state, the functioning of the Armed Forces, defined a strategy for the exit of the Ukrainian Armed Forces from the crisis. It consists of the following: First. During 2010, stabilize the situation in the Armed Forces. The main efforts to target the social component, to bring the officer's corps out from beyond poverty, to stop the destructive tendencies in reducing the readiness of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, to actively start optimizing governance from strategic to tactical level. On the basis of a new military doctrine to the state, a new edition of the basic principles of Ukrainian national security will begin and define a strategy for the development of the Armed Forces in the medium and long term. To this end, once the state budget has been approved, define medium-term and long-term economic macro-indicators, restore the work of the Interministerial Commission for Defence and develop and approve the National Development Programme of the Ukrainian Armed Forces by the end of the year. Third. Development of the defence and industrial complex. The development of the defence and industrial complex will support only critical weapons and military technology programs. On the basis of this fruitful work, both the Supreme Council and the government, these issues, this strategy will be completely implemented. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u15	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “Our Ukraine” faction. Please, your speech. Vladimir Yavorowski instead of Bondarenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u16	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine! ” Dear voters! The new authorities have launched a systematic attack on Ukrainian language, culture, and national identity. This attack is becoming more and more a sign of a deliberate humanitarian pogrom. In just two weeks, a whole series of steps have been taken to eliminate Ukrainian language from education, to eliminate the role of independent knowledge assessment, to bring back corruption schemes for entry into institutions, and to hide thousands of documents about communist crimes from the public. In turn, the following story – the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory, which Deputy Prime Minister Seminozhenko decided to destroy or, in his late speech, his mission on March 29th, quote: “Teach the question of the further functioning of the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory as the central body of executive power”. Two letters have been added to the commission so that no one will have doubts about what is being said. The first is from one regional deputy, known for the zealous implementation of the direction of the Kremlin, which proposes that today's head of the Institute of Academics of Igor Yukhnovsky, by the way, the veteran of the Great Homeland War, the academics and the prudent, replace the views of the Academy of Sciences of Anatoly Tchaikovsky, whose views on Ukrainian history have been widely disseminated and disseminated by the newspaper Communist, more specifically, in his view it is not a Ukrainian story. Another letter is from the Communist Olga Hinzburg, head of the State Committee of Archives, who informs us of the agreement to take the Institute of National Memory under the care of its committee. It is quite clear how Communist Hinzburg will deal with the documents of the Institute of Communist Crimes. It was under its direction that earlier in the site and printed publications of the Democratic Republic that material about prominent actors in Ukrainian history and culture had been removed, and at the same time, a propaganda book, which celebrates the Soviet Union, was published at the expense of their Communist party leader. And once again, that's exactly what's done with the budget money. In view of this, the parliamentary group “For Ukraine! ” notes that the authorities have declared a full - scale offensive to Ukrainian national memory, Ukrainian language, Ukrainian history. All the talk of unity and stability with which the new authorities went to the elections was buried, and the fight against all the gains of Ukraine that have been achieved in recent years began. In this regard, the “For Ukraine!” MP group requires the President, the head of the government to put an end to the persecution of the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory, to prevent the liquidation of the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory, and reports that we will fight for our language, for our culture, our national memory by all constitutional methods. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u17	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Soroczynska Kirilenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u18	Dear Ukrainian voters, honourable Ukrainian Parliamentarians, I have come up to this rostrum so that perhaps I can at least stop in some small way the dangerous trend that is today. One of the dangerous trends that today is in our Ukrainian Parliament. It was already said from this rostrum that according to a logic that was approved by almost all, the regulatory committee would, of course, belong to the opposition. But so far he's in power and the same man who was there. So what I want to say is, as a national MP, I've tried to respond to the trends that are taking place in Ukrainian society today. This is about, almost, the feudal benefits that Ukrainian national deputies today have, and these benefits were accepted by the ancient 239 in the first call. I've prepared a bill that's very calm and normal, where there are some benefits, let's say they don't choose a national deputy to the Supreme Council anymore. That is, he either failed to live up to his expectations, or he failed to perform some of the functions that he was to perform. Instead of moving to a normal Ukrainian society and living the same way that people live, I don't talk about retirement, I don't touch it, it can kind of study for the rest of my life, continue learning and get 80 percent of the people's salaries. I’m not saying that each one of us, when given a vacation, is able to buy a trip instead of getting one for free. Once again, it's a normal bill. I'm putting him on the committee, they're looking at him on the committee. I'm here when this issue is considered and I'm informed that your bill is approved. After literally two, three weeks, I get the answer from the committee head's signature that "your bill has been rejected". I pass it on the second time, by changing things, by attending a committee meeting, the committee doesn't have a quorum, and the committee doesn't sit down. But they're already giving me the opinion of an official who's obviously been assigned to cut this bill. There was no more committee meeting. I have an official response from the committee that this bill has not been considered. Because of this, I say again: this is a very dangerous trend. If a national MP is my constitutional right, passed a bill, he should be considered. You have the right to reject it. But I still have the right to take him out to the session. Because of this, I am grateful to Vladimir Mikhailovich, who asked the Conciliation Council that this bill should be passed. I am convinced that the vast majority of the people who are here will vote in favour of cutting off these feudal benefits, which are compromising us all and setting us up against Ukrainian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u19	Soroczynska-Kyrilenko, Yulia Timoshenko Block, please. The next will be Jaroslav Jojik instead of John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u20	Soroczynska-Kyrilenko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko, Party of Fatherland. The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, honourable deputies, citizens of Ukraine! There was a Day of Fight Against Tuberculosis in the World. There is a big problem in Ukraine today. Ukraine became the second of 100,000 patients since the Russian Federation. There is an absolute lack of attention to the TB programme in the country, and there are state institutions that do not provide it at all. Inadequate and ineffective financing of anti-tuberculosis measures. A sharp reduction in fixed beds for tuberculosis patients Imagine, in 15 years, where an epidemic of tuberculosis has been declared, 17,000 beds have been reduced. Eighty-six sanitariums are short and closed. In fact, all of Ukraine’s Phtysiatric Infrastructure has been destroyed. This is an incomplete list of problems. A completely neglected sanitary epidemiology service, a lack of transportation, lack of equipment. Not all treatment facilities are provided by fluorographers so that a person can get through each year, especially from a risk group, a preventive examination, and an examination of his health. The TB epidemic in Ukraine began in 1995 and is progressing to date. During this period, the incidence of all forms of tuberculosis doubled to 83 per hundred thousand per year in 2006. Mortality has increased by one and a half times, to 22 persons. In Ukraine four new cases of tuberculosis and one fatality are reported every hour. According to the number of TB patients, Ukraine has a stable second place in Europe, the prevalence of tuberculosis, mortality and disability have become a huge problem for Ukraine, which poses a real threat to national security. Robert Koch, who invented the TB stick, said: “During tuberculosis on earth, twice as many people will die than cholera and plague combined.” We're close today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u21	Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u22	I want to point out that Ukraine needs today to have the people in the governors' seats and you and I return to the face of the tuberculosis epidemic, that the love stick will fly into any Mercedes, it will touch any child, it's a problem that we're going away from, and we need to pay immediate attention and start implementing the TB control program in Ukraine. It's an infectious plague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u23	Thank you. Jaroslav Jojik, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" faction. Next will be the Pavlovenko, a faction of the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u24	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The Ukrainian People’s Party considers the court’s farce in the so - called Mikola Kohani case to be a sign of the return of the methods of red steel terror to the political life of Ukraine. The law enforcement and judicial branches of power have become a valid instrument of political repression. Remember, on March 29th, without any legal basis available in the court hall, a public activist named Mikola Kohaniowski was taken into account, who was legally protesting against new government assignments and was himself the victim of the attack by the assistant Dmitr Tobacco Officer Victor Voronin. The verdict of the court of peaceful protest under the walls of the Ministry of Education and Science on March 17 was in fact described as a hooligan act by a group of persons. This kind of treatment stems from the charges brought against Kohani according to the second part of article 296 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. As of today, any public protest may be regarded as a gross violation of public order and may be held liable for up to five years in prison. The Ukrainian People’s Party points out that such actions constitute a gross violation of fundamental human rights and freedoms, and they testify to the authorities ’ intentions to resort to hard authoritarian methods to suppress opposition. Today, the main task of the entire Ukrainian people, as well as the opposition political forces, is to prevent the authoritarian suppression of citizens’ rights and freedoms. I would like to remind the current authorities that its real support in society does not exceed 23 percent of the votes cast by all voters in Ukraine. In the second round, the vote was against both candidates rather than one of the two. The Ukrainian People’s Party, in an effort to restore the rule of law, demands immediate release to the custody of the National Deputies of the prisoner Mikol Kohaniowski, the establishment of a parliamentary interim commission of inquiry into the circumstances of Kohaniowski’s detention. The establishment of a parliamentary interim investigation commission to investigate the November 27, 2009, incident at the opening of Lenin’s restored monument in Kiev, when hundreds of witnesses were severely beaten in front of the police, protesting against the discovery of the monument.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u25	Finish up, please. National MP Pavlovenko, forwards the right to speak to Igor Skin, please. Peter Cibenko will be next instead of Schmel’s.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u26	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! To raise this subject, I was encouraged by a further increase in oil prices. There is no secret that the situation in this market has always raised suspicions of corruption and monopolistic conspiracy. One reason for their existence is the non-transparent pricing scheme for both the oil products produced in Ukraine and the imports. The previous Government had tried to streamline its work on the market – temporary expert and analytical groups at Mintopenergo had been established, but the principles of price formation remained closed to the consumer and the public. This time, the oil traders also used inter-authority to raise the value of petroleum products. Justifications, as usual, are a possible dollar's exchange rate, an increase in the price of oil on world markets, and so on. The victims of monopolistic conspiracies were both ordinary autoowners of Ukrainian citizens and leading sectors of the country, particularly transport and agrarian ones. The transport component is one of the main factors in Ukraine's economy as well as any other State and an increase in the cost of transport, including by increasing the price of fuel, will lead to a further increase in inflation. With regard to the agricultural sector, it is customary for it to have a speculative increase in the price of diesel before the start of spring-field work. In recent years, the Antimonopoly Committee has stated more that it has been addressing the issue of unfair competition in the market, the situation has been repeated year after year, but, in large account, none of the oil traders have ever been held responsible. Monopolistic companies follow the same price policy based on treaty schemes. However, it is difficult to prove it, but it is possible to do so if desired. Yesterday, the leadership of the Antimonopoly Committee advocated that understanding with oil traders was found, but I am confident that the Government will decide on the issue of fuel price formation definitively and will force the Antimonopoly Committee to work more effectively and in principle, and illegal action by fuel market participants should be investigated by law enforcement agencies. There are facts of unfair competition between the oil traders themselves. Fuel market participants wrote to Minister Yuri Boyko to prevent the market from being monopolized by the Privat group. The Prime Minister has already given several orders in this regard, and the Minister of Fuel and Energy has begun to work actively to eliminate the possibility of monopolistic collusion and speculation in the oil market. As consumers, all of us are interested in the final minimum price of fuel, so the algorithm for its formation must be one and understood for all market participants. Today, the coalition, together with the Government, is responsible for the situation in the country and must take this issue seriously. We are ready to support the necessary legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u27	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u28	I'm done, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u29	Do you have everyone? Thank you. Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, last speaker, Communist faction,
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u30	Communist faction, head of the Ukrainian veteran organization, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine. On 24 March, a meeting of the Bureau of the Organization of Veterans of Ukraine was held and, among other decisions, an address was made to the Prime Minister and the President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. “Dear Nikolai Janović, respectable Vladimir Mihajlovich! The Bureau of the Council of the Ukrainian Veterans Organization has decided to address you on such a matter. We are outraged by the campaign of Ukrainian cave nationalists against the Minister of Education and Science of Tobacco. The arguments, and even more so the banding methods of the campaign are already protesting to the general public of Ukraine, show the pseudo-patriotism and reaction of these politicians. [[& Tiles]] In the form of a fight against Tobacco, they are in fact in favour of continuing those socially dangerous phenomena and processes in education, science and the humanitarian sphere as a whole, which have been deliberately cultivated in Ukraine by the orange regime. That is: falsification of national history, especially of the recent period, plantings in society of national and national fascist ideology, Russianphobia, a fracture of the literary Ukrainian language, barbaric destruction of the culture of the people of the past, and moral terror against the Soviet veterans of war and labour. The most dangerous thing is that, on this anti-national, anti-national basis, young people are being raised, and national intelligence is being molded, and the degradation of the people is taking place. In the humanitarian field of Ukraine, and above all education and science, serious reforms are needed to prevent the disaster here. In this regard, the organization of Ukrainian veterans, people with advanced life experiences, whose labour and war advances exist in Ukraine, has repeatedly addressed the country's political leadership throughout 2004-2010, but the humanitarian situation has continued and continues to deteriorate. Reforms are needed without delay, but they are balanced and effective. For their implementation of the chapter in this case, the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine must not only be a highly educated professional with knowledge of this area, but also a person who is firm in his failure to perceive the falsifications of history, not the perception of Russianophobia and nationalism, which gives rise to neo-fascism in Ukraine. This is the kind of political figure that the tobacco scholar recommended himself in the veteran environment. In view of all the above, we consider it our civil duty to request you, as respected by Nikolai Janović, and you, Vladimir Mihajlović, to take all necessary measures to implement reforms in the humanitarian field, in particular in the field of education and science, and to support Tobacco in its activities as Minister of Education and Science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, the speeches are over. In connection with the proposals made by the national MPs. Please prepare the Secretariat with appropriate letters and instructions. As for the proposals that were made in the Committee redistribution. Dear colleagues! To your knowledge, according to article 81 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, i.e. the law, it is stipulated that, at the time of the formation of the committees, the opposition has the right to first choose the committees and contains a list of these committees. You can read 81 articles. I'm reading to you. 81 articles dealing with the creation of committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Article 4 tells us that allocation quotas are defined, and when allocation quotas are defined, the parliamentary opposition is given the primary right to choose positions. So if we come to the conclusion that the committees should be redistributed, it will mean that this work should be done in a new way. All the committees turn back and take a look. If. You listen, please, if--don't shout! – if you have the will to overthrow the Supreme Council, that 200, as a minimum, are the heads, deputies, secretaries of war among themselves, let us begin. On the Conciliation Board, we agreed that please look for a common conversation, a common language between the committees. If you are. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you again, I'm making a note. Don't scream! I'm telling you again. Don't scream! Otherwise, you will be deprived of your right to participate in meetings for a period of time, as required by the Rules. If you make a decision with each other, please make a deal and make the right decision. And let's not ruin the Supreme Council's work and work. Do you have a Let us turn to the issues set out in the schedule for today. A draft Act amending article 4 of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on State Customs is being announced for consideration. Registration number 2458. Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, perhaps short or full. Short cut? Dear colleagues! The rapporteur suggests that the bill be reviewed in a simplified manner. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please vote. [[10:40:42]] For-64 The decision is not supported. Please, Volodymyr Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u32	Good morning, dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head, distinguished radio listeners! I address those in the hall and those in the rostrum with a rhetorical question. What does the future hold for us? Since the question is rhetorical, I answer it myself, I don't need to answer it -- old age. And each one of us will come to that age when it is necessary for him to be respected by those who are to do so today. This bill is aimed at respect for old age and has no cumulative effect and has no effect. Its purpose is to clarify the law’s functioning when citizens have benefits in the issue of inheritance certificates and then the law states: as well as contributions to savings institutions and other credit institutions. This means that today citizens with savings contributions have certain benefits. But in practice, those who work in tax inspection and in banks require citizens to tax these things, especially when our citizens receive so-called funeral or funeral expenses in accordance with the Cabinet of Ministers decree, and they are taxed. Therefore, the purpose of this law, which is prepared on the basis of numerous citizens’ petitions, is to clarify the law in force, to make a more faithful State Customs Decree and to say that the benefits of tax evasion are also paid to citizens in institutions, including money savings and insurance contributions, which were paid to the USSR Savings Bank and the USSR State Insurance Institution, which were then operating in Ukraine. In other words, we restore social justice. I know about the observations that the ruling coalition has made, especially in the Party of Regions, about not voting on not supporting this law. But think about it, it's about virtual money, it's about the fact that today the bank is not actually returning, it's about the inheritance that comes after the death of the heir to his descendants. In an appropriate way, the situation is that a person who has worked hard in Soviet times has earned a considerable amount. Now, when the right to an inheritance is transferred, he has to pay even more taxes. As in the Ukrainian proverb, “I was also beaten for my sake.” I've made more money, so when I count, I have to pay a lot of my inheritance. I understand that the budget is suffering, but that's the right thing to do. Note the fact that the bill was prepared in May 2008, when there was no crisis, there was no budget deficit. And we just have to give it to those citizens who need it very badly today. And once again, I stress that this bill is prepared on the basis of numerous petitions made by citizens of Ukraine of retirement age, because it is usually pensioners who protect their parents from adulthood. And they still have to pay the virtual money tax that they don't get, because they're in the Savings institutions and they were introduced in 92 years. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u33	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We consider the questions in full procedure. That's the question. Please sign up for a question to the initiator of the Stretovich Bill Vladimir Mikolaiovich and we will discuss it. Please explain. Korgee, the faction of Yulia Tymoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u34	Dear Volodymyr Mikolaiovich! I think your bill is very relevant and deeply social. But I'd like to know, you've calculated how many Ukrainians apply to this bill of yours?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u35	Thank you. I can't answer you in absolute numbers. Because each year the number of discoveries of inheritances varies. If, for example, some 430,000 citizens died in Ukraine last year, it cannot mean that they all had property and passed something on as an inheritance. Maybe this number is 200,000. But the inheritance will open in six months. I am convinced that citizens today have little money left on savings, as we used to say before 92. It's about something else. That these costs are not actually going to be received by citizens today. If they had access to their inheritance rights and then took the money out of savings, then it was clear: part of it, please give to the state at least for what it kept, and the Soviet state took another three percent -- the lowest stake at that time. There is no such thing today. And here's the second illogical conclusion. Because the inheritance is not only in the cost of the Savings, the inheritance is in the cars, the inheritance is in the houses. It turns out that for some, housing buildings, buildings are exempt from such a payment of duties, and for money, if they were in Savings, taxes should be paid. So my goal is to align this position and to make it more precise, I emphasize, no change.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u36	I see. Vladimir Bondarenko, “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”, please ask your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u37	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, Party “Reforms and Orders”. Mr. Reporter, this is really about the entire inheritance complex. But it is in the inheritance of money savings, as well as insurance, so-called insurance, as well as the money that has been invested in the purchase of individual items and cars by citizens who also do not fall within the debt recovery scheme that will be involved in this law and these property complexes?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u38	Yes. I answer you. Here the amendment, if you look closely, notes: the funds invested in the institutions of the USSR Savings Bank and the USSR State Insurance in 1990. If you remember, the minister of finance, Paul’s last minister of finance, the bonds, and someone got a car, a refrigerator, a TV set, and everyone else at work was distributing, and it caused such euphoria. And today these securities are still in the hands of our citizens. There is no more of that state, and there are still citizens. And when they're inherited, think about what's obviously never going to happen, because the states that promised it won't, today they're forced to pay the tax: if the car is 6,000, please, for 6,000 taxes; if the TV is a thousand rubles. As I remember now, since I too got to the Institute of Time, I pulled it out of the lottery, paying, please, a tax. It doesn't make sense. It's simple. I believe that it is the responsibility of the legislator, those who express the will of the people, to correct this inappropriate mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u39	Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of Regions, your question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u40	Vladimir Mikolaiovich, I have a few questions for you. First question. Tell me, please, if you thought it was so important, and I share this point of view, which is really a question, it needs to be settled. But why have you been in the coalition since 2008, why haven't you asked this question, because you've allocated the agenda and didn't ask it for consideration, such a great time has passed since then? That's the first question. And the second question. You've been dealing with this problem. Say, please, and as settled on this issue of the succession, when Russia took over the rights and obligations of the USSR, as the issue was settled and protected by Ukrainian citizens in part of the repayment of debts or savings held by Ukrainian citizens at the USSR Saving Bank at that time. And how did this come about the bilateral relationship between Ukraine and Russia? I think you should have had that information if you were preparing this document, and please call, if you have, specific figures on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u41	I answered with regard to specific figures, none today, because it is impossible to count who is the heir and who has the right to an inheritance when the heir’s life stops. Regarding relations with Russia, you know that these relationships are not settled today, they remain open. Russia requires us to accept a zero choice. When she announced herself to be the successor of the Soviet Union in 1991 and took all the property abroad, all our diplomatic institutions then narrowed down to the corners and then just stood on their feet. And the question so far has not been solved, and I think in interstate relations Russia should pay us back. Because you remember the phrase of President Kravchuk of Ukraine at the time, who said that “bring the money to the Savings Bank in a timely manner, and carry the money to the Savings Bank because they can disappear.” It was such a catch. When the citizens were carried, and in 1991 the Soviet Reserve ceased to exist together with the State. So it's a matter of negotiation. And I think the ruling coalition isn't going to be calling for a union of sovereign states right now, but it's going to be asking the question before the citizens get their money back. We were able to return the money to the Foreign Bank, the money that the Ukrainian citizens had in the Russian Soviet “Vyjesheknombank”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u42	Yuri Karmazin, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u43	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Respectable. Hello! Dear Vladimir Mikolaiovich, I address you. I want to support your bill first. And secondly, I want to ask you a theoretical question. You're making changes, you're proposing to amend article 4 of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine's Decree on State Customs. In view of how I remember you were actively working on the adoption of the 1996 Constitution, I would like to ask you, when we can get out, I mean the Supreme Council of Ukraine, generally the Supreme Council, in general, the country when we go out before we make any decrees, because such an act as decrees was not foreseen by the Constitution? So my question to you is deeper than it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u44	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u45	I'm going to briefly answer the previous question: why haven't I been lobbying my bill so far? To my profound conviction, every legislative initiative in the calendar approach to the session hall should be introduced into the hall. This is a bit of an allogic situation today when Bills 6044 and 2 are being considered, not a bill with order number 2458. This is a matter that needs to be addressed to the secretariat, to the organizational department of the Supreme Council. Why are they stopping there? Because if an initiative is made, it needs to be put in a queue, a chronicle to be considered. And as for the decree, I am in solidarity with my colleague Yuri Carmazin, I believe that Ukraine is pregnant with the codification and incorporation of our legislation. We've passed so many laws, only subcommittees, so many orders from ministries, so many decrees from the Cabinet of Ministers that it's very easy for lawyers today to fish in murky water. Because the law says one thing: The Cabinet of Ministers' decree contradicts him. The Ministry's order doesn't fit in at all. So this question is again for the authorities, where I hope that peace will reign for the years to come, and we will do this work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u46	Thank you, Vladimir Mikolaiovich. I invite the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Sergio Anatoliyovich Teryohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u47	Good morning, fellow dignitaries, the committee considered a bill amending article 4 of the Cabinet of Ministers' decree on State Customs, submitted by the Ukrainian national deputy Stretovic. We suggest that we take the basis and accept it as a whole. In my own words, explaining the essence of this bill, I would like to point out that this is, say, a correction, well, an existing legislative nightmare. Imagine that people who have invested money in the Savings Bank, or in former institutions of the State of the Soviet Union, have no right, or the ability to take that money, or to get compensation for insurance policies. But in case a person dies and this virtual asset is passed on to someone, you have to pay the tax. I spoke to Mrs. Yefimenko, a representative of the Ministry of Finance, yesterday, about the morals of this tax at all. Mrs. Jefimenko told me yesterday that any transfer of the asset should be paid for something. But you know, I seem to disagree with you for one reason. If this asset is liquid, if you can hold it in your hand, then you have to pay the tax. If this is a virtual right that may or may not be implemented in the future, what taxes may be involved. This problem arose from the beginning of the active payment of the oscis, as Julie’s thousands were called. Previously, when it was issued to the “burial, ” remember when a person died, then a small amount was paid at the expense of the budget through savings. So that wasn't a big one, so it didn't feel like it. Because these amounts were small. As soon as the mass payments began, as soon as the heirs were granted the right to receive this thousand, the payments grew. That's why it's the right project. The committee suggests that it be accepted as a whole. And continuing the question that Mr. Stretovich was asked about. Mr. Smith set up, I think, for the sake of savings, the succession of savings, I can answer you. 18 years ago, I was one of six authorized individuals from Ukraine delegated to Moscow to resolve the issue of the return of these savings and the distribution of assets, liabilities of the Soviet Union. And then we met with the former President of the Soviet Union of Gorbachev, and we asked him how, when you took all the assets out of the Federal Republics of Moscow in the last days of 1991 to support the federal budget, you were going to give money to people. We didn't get any answers then. On January 02nd, 92nd, the Soviet Reserve ended its existence, along with the USSR State, and we had to pass here a law on the rules of compensation for these savings. We made this commitment, even though these 102 billion, I'm definitely calling the amount, at the rate in the US dollars, were removed in the last days of the 91st year from our balance sheet. We now have nothing to do but continue to pay compensation to our payers. But let's end this absurdity, on the one hand, we're making compensation from the budget, and on the other hand, we're starting to tax some kind of tax. So once again, I repeat, on behalf of the committee, we had a unanimous decision, among other things, to remind the Party of Regions that most of the members of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy made up of your representatives, so, unanimously, this decision was supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u48	Thank you, Sergey Anatolyovich, dear colleagues! The Deputy Minister of Finance will be given the floor after the discussion, in order to express the position of the government, myself. No, just a few more questions. If you have any questions, Sergey Anatoliyovich, please write down, and I will inform you that I do not have any claims against the initiator, Vladimir Stretovic, and the head of the committee, because the committee considered this bill on June 24, 2008. Obviously, we have some problems here in general in the Supreme Council, and the national deputies of the initiators, the committee has clearly worked on them, and there can be no claim to them. Yuri Carmazin, please ask me a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u49	Yuri Carmazin, I'd like to remind you that you are. I went out with dozens of these projects and said, "Pick up, look when you're registered." This is for those who ask how easy it is to insist. Sergei Anatoliyovich, thank you for the meaningful answer, I just wanted to hear the answer from you to two questions. After that 102 billion dollars in the United States, where the question is not closed, because there is no zero option, there is no zero. Your position, your committee and your wish for a new government, which is more common there in Moscow than we are in other cities in Ukraine, first, and the recommendation what to do, because people are all living, and that is our money and we have to return it today. And secondly, as long as we make amendments to the decrees, how many more will there be decrees that are not provided for in the Constitution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, there's a request for me, we're ready to set up rooms here, shout, if necessary, we can even put portraits against someone to shout. I'm especially the people's deputies who show up in the session room yesterday, not the session room, but work actively. Sergey Anatolyovich, answer me.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u51	Thank you. A man has a lot of potential as an old legislator, so that's probably how he behaves. On the first question, the answer is simply to follow the 1997 Supreme Council decree of birth, which was written by two people. Unfortunately, the deceased today, Vadim Petrovich Gethtman and the second person, is me, where 17 points were written, which is a prerequisite for signing a zero-species version, none of which have been carried out by our Foreign Ministry. Take this decision, it works and let the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the new government carry out at least a few points from this decision on the distribution of assets and liabilities of the former Soviet Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u52	Gregory Smythuch, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u53	The second question of decrees, the philosophical question, they accepted the Constitution, they ended, I remind you, their adoption ended in 1993, the Constitution in 1996, I remind you it was adopted. Thus, according to the legislation in force, these are valid acts at the level of the law. I agree that it would have been a long time before they were changed, despite the fact that out of 54 decrees 32 were written on my desk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u54	Thank you, Sergey Anatolyovich. Gregory Smythech and we'll move on to the discussion. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u55	Sergei Anatoliyovich, I have two questions specific to you, the first question, of course, it's good that you mentioned that you were temporary, including the negotiation process that took place between Ukraine and Russia in terms of distribution, including the savings of the USSR. Appropriately, please tell us that Ukraine has these remains and is now obliged to budget for today’s day. That's the first question. And do you think that you, including those involved in this, so to speak, failed treaty that was signed? And the second question, please tell me, who will answer when you were chairman of the committee in 2008-2009 and your government was, and at that time, the banks and our citizens that kept their funds have been bankrupted, and you've called for funds, including those in our commercial banks and over 200 billion citizens to be saved -- lost, in various banks.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u56	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u57	On the first question, this is a story that needs to be read already, do you remember such a former minister of finance of the Soviet Union Paulov? So his decision was in December, if I'm not mistaken, 1991 all balances, please. [[I can see someone's back, I'm sorry, I can't see your eyes, I can see someone's back.]] So, according to him, all the balances of the republican banks, the Reserve and the State of the Soviet Union were transferred to Moscow, to the central institutions, after which the deficit of the Soviet Union budget was financed. They've eaten. That is why it was not the decision of the Republic of South Africa – it was Moscow's decision. After that, we tried to get these funds back, to say that they weren't.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u58	Finish it, Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u59	They say it's non-state and it's citizens. And so we have to bring them back, but unfortunately Stretovic, on the one hand, told the Russian Federation that she was the successor of the Soviet Union, but at the same time she refused the principles of the distribution of assets and liabilities that had already been agreed upon. And for my own personal role. I can tell you that I was suspended at the request of the minister of foreign economic affairs of the Russian Federation, such as Peter Aven, who is now an oligarch there in Russia, from these negotiations in view of not being able to go out on principle 16/37 percent, remember this one, by distribution. He was taken away, Kravchuk took me away then.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u60	Thank you, Sergey Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the discussion, please sign up from factions and deputies. Please show me. Yuri Karmazin of the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", next will be Gregory Smitush of the faction of the Party of the Regions. Yuri Anatolyevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u61	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, we support the bill tabled by colleague Stratovic Volodymyr Mikolayovich, which is really about lifting non-moral taxes. And I hope that the representative of the Ministry of Finance will now say that, indeed, this bill needs to be supported. And I'm stressing that this is all about virtual costs, but these are the costs that each of us with you, wherever you are in the region, wherever we're not moving at all, are being asked by citizens who are waiting for their return. And in view of this, I would like to turn from this high rostrum to Mikola Janović Azarov and remind him of the events and the Supreme Council Order of 1997, which required the Government to take all measures to recover the funds of the citizens of Ukraine that were sent to the Russian Federation at the request of the Soviet Union, at the request of the central authorities, and thus the citizens deprived of their property. The Constitution of Ukraine does not provide for anyone to be deprived of his property. That's why there's a task for the new MFZ and there's a task for the negotiations, including at the price of gas, on the whole, because there's a topic to talk about, if there's a successor to the Russian Federation, it means there have to be, and there's going to be, and there's going to be problems. And we need to put these problems around and discuss them. With regard to the bill, paragraph 6 of article 4 of the Ukrainian Cabinet Decree of January 21, 1993 was amended. Why I emphasize paragraph, paragraph, article, and decree, and why we should forget about such normative acts. And then there were 54. Yeah, we have to teach students, and say, it was part of our history when, in extreme circumstances, the government adopted things like decrees. But now we have to. that these are the full laws by which all these things were to be done. By the way, I remind those who asked the question that the Tax Code is in the Supreme Council, passed and not accepted, even in the first reading. Why Is It Not Accepted? It's a question for everyone. And I would ask the chairman to speed up the review and the Tax Code. As for these changes, they should be accepted in both the first and the second readings now. And that's a moral question. I'm talking to all my colleagues, regardless of the factions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u62	Thank you. Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions. Next up, Alexy Plednikov, let's move on to the speeches from the deputies. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u63	The honourable national MPs, the honourable citizens, of course, that justice, in my opinion, is in the sense that citizens who have earned their own resources, or who have earned their money in those difficult times when the people of the Carbovant were stacking up to save their own pension and thus have not been able to exercise their right to own property, because the State has not provided or performed a basic function to protect their rights in part of its preservation of the U.S.S.S.S.S. Bank, certainly that this is justice in that it should not be taxed. I will certainly stand in this position and support this bill as part of the fact that these taxes cannot be withdrawn. But there is another question: why in the distribution, so to speak, are the property of the Soviet Union worked by all our citizens, including Ukraine, and, unfortunately, many who are no longer on this earth, right? Why was these rights of Ukrainian citizens not guaranteed in part of their ownership rights at the time? And why did those who signed or prepared the covenant not ask this question of principle? Why haven't these people been asking questions in the last five years? What a question they don't know!? They know. Why was this question not presented to the Council in a complex way? Because it's not coming out because someone's not comfortable talking about it, I think. Why did they do that, observe it voluntarily? Because it didn't apply to them! Because then the MP could have taken his money away, and all the citizens lost that money! And why, in the wake of the 2008-2009 economic crisis in Ukraine, when Ukrainian citizens were told that they needed to keep money in banks, and as a result, dozens of banks in Ukraine and hundreds of thousands and even millions of Ukrainian citizens had lost their property, in fact, and the state had failed to perform its primary function to protect their interests. Why, then, is the coalition and then the president, who is fortunately no longer the President of Ukraine, why did he not then fulfil his primary duty to protect the constitutional rights of citizens?Oh, my God! The question is, Is this a crime or not in front of citizens? When we're talking about crime, if someone has stolen a piece of money and put a person in jail, why is the state looking at it when they're stripping people through the banking system in the modern world and nobody's talking about it and asking questions about it with their ribs? And the last. You know, I don't know if I was the author or together in the negotiation process, but to my knowledge, there's this information on mass e-information that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u64	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u65	When Yushchenko headed the National Bank or when he was the deputy head of the National Bank with the deceased head of the National Bank, the assets of this money from the Russian Federation were transferred to Ukraine, passed through the National Bank, then they went to Prominestbank and then disappeared. It's a subject of individual conversation, it's a subject of separate research by law enforcement agencies. And who's temporary if that's what happened? So I'm asking a question to the Attorney General's Office, was this really a wire from the Russian bank to the National Bank and then this money disappeared into the Prominestbank? If so, it is a crime against the Ukrainian people, against the Ukrainian State. I am asking this question to investigate the Attorney General’s Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u66	Alexy Plotnikov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Let's move on to the speeches from the deputies. Those factions that aren't signed up, I'll give them in a minute. Please, Alexy Plotnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u67	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Of course, the subject of this bill is very relevant and the issue of improving the lives of citizens is what should be done and what laws should be written about. But if you look closely at the proposed bill, there is a question as to whether these things are already settled. For example, according to the current edition of article 4, paragraph 16, of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers’ Decree on State Customs, citizens are exempt from the payment of government duties for giving them certificates of inheritance. Citation: “indemnities in savings institutions and other credit institutions on insurance payments under contracts for personal and property insurance with State claims bonds”. That is to say, the same legislative standard covers citizens' contributions to the savings bank institutions and insurance payments under the insurance contracts of the NSS “Oranta” as well as cash savings and insurance contributions made by 2 January 1992 to the institution of the savings bank of the USSR and the state insurance insurance of the USSR, for which the VAT “State Savings Bank” and the NSS “Oranta” are the successor. So to some extent, these things are already settled. To a certain extent, these things are regulated by the appropriate provisions of the decree and is it correct in this form to submit a new bill, that is the question. So given all of this, there is a proposal for the drafter to work with this bill. Take into account actions or standards and what he proposes. And the general conclusion is to send this bill for re-reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u68	There are other factions that have not been recorded to speak after a minute. Does the “Lithuania Block” not insist? Communists, right? "Julia Tymoshenko"? Please, Sergey Terjohin, one more minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u69	Dear colleagues! I'd just like to draw your attention to Mr. Plotnick's previous speech. Mr. Plotnikov. Well, Mr. Plonikov's busy.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u70	Yuri Anatoliyovich, give Alexia Plotnikov the opportunity to heed the warning. Yuri Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u71	The point is, yes, what Mr. Plotnikov said was true of those individuals who are in the first degree of relationship. But suppose that when a grandmother hands over her granddaughter or granddaughter, a bribe arises. And Stretovic's bill is very complex in solving these issues. So there's no variation with the active drafting of the State Customs Decree. And in general, dear colleagues, we need to approach this decree in a comprehensive manner. Because government duties can't perform fiscal functions. State tax, that's compensation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u72	Thank you. The position is clear. Dear colleagues! We'll listen to the government's position. Deputy Finance Minister Tetjana Ivanovich, Tetjana Ivanovna Jefimenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u73	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, after this bill was registered in May 2008, since 1 January 2010, the Ukrainian Act of March 5, 2009, No.1010, which instead of the tax rate we are trying to change, introduced a small fixed-sized tax rate of only two non-taxable citizens' incomes, which is 34 bracelets. And this rule now exists -- two non-taxable minimums.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u74	17 bucks. Come on, I'll give you this.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u75	Sergey Anatolyevich, allow the deputy minister to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u76	It's completely for other purposes. That's why I have this proposal. I really agree that if this is a virtual right, a virtual right cannot be taxed on real money. So the proposal is to delay the payment of this moment at a time when the virtual money becomes real money. So I'm asking this bill today not to support it, and then to make changes to it in a way that virtual money is taxed or taxed at a time when it becomes real money, and we know what's going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u77	Thank you, Auntie Ivanovna. Dear colleagues, I ask the author, “Do you need another minute? ” Please, Vladimir Mikolaiovich, and we will make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, as you have just heard, the representative of the Ministry of Finance has agreed that this is virtual money that has no material meaning, but the tax itself, when the right to an inheritance is drawn up, is collected. The paradox, what I don't have, I still have to pay for it. That's why we have to postpone. That's the first question. Question two. I want to remind you that each of you has a high title as a national defender. The people are asking those who are suffering today to accept such a standard. Then please excuse your high rank as a national defender. And the last. We are with you those who believe in dawn, in the heat of the week, please let us do something good, some gift to our afflicted people. I urge you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the committee has proposed to accept as a basis and, in general, the Scientific and Experimental Authority is to support the bill. In accordance with the Rules, we will now vote on the basis. I am voting on the draft Act amending article 4 of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Decree on State Customs on the basis. Please vote. [[11:19:32]] For 237 Show me the factions, please. Region Party – 1, "Timoshenko Yulia Block" – 139, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 50, communists – 27, "Litvina Block" – 19, non-fractional – 1. Dear colleagues, as the committee has proposed in general, but I understand you have heard the position of the Ministry of Finance and other factions, I think we will act under the Rules. So I'd like to ask the committee to look at it as soon as possible and prepare it for the second reading. Short-circuited? Come on. Let's put it to a vote: a brief procedure to consider the bill. Please vote. [[11:20:26]] For 215 We're working on the Rules. As soon as the committee prepares, we will consider the second reading. I'm announcing a draft motion for a bill to be withdrawn from some of the bills. [[on taxation issues]] [[Registration number 6108]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Terjehohin Sergey Anatoliyovich. Sergey Anatolyovich, I take it this is a technical question? If there is no objection, there is a reduced procedure. Under the reduced procedure, I'll put it to a vote. [[11:21:19]] For 148 Unfortunately, two votes were not enough, 148. We'll consider the full procedure. But I don't think we're going to have that much discussion, so. We didn't make it? Come on. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, to return, 226. Dear colleagues. Sergey Anatolyovich, report. I don't think we have an active discussion. We'll be through soon. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, this motion for a ruling was drafted at the request of the Head of the Supreme Council, which was expressed at the Conciliation Council meeting, in order to ensure that the committees waive the laws that have become obsolete. We propose to withdraw the following bills: No. 2269 – The Law on Payments for Uranium ore Production – in connection with adoption, loss of validity, because the Act on Amendments to certain Acts of 17.11.2009, No. 1565 has been adopted. The draft Law on State Support for the Book Study in Ukraine is 2309, due to the adoption of the Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws of the same Content 18.09.2008 No. 521. [[on State support for the bookstore in Ukraine]] The draft law on amendments and additions to some Ukrainian laws has been 2457 since the eighth year. [[on the prevention of the use of tobacco products and their harmful effects]] In connection with the adoption of the exact same Law, 11 / 06 2009 amending certain legislative acts and the Act amending certain legislative acts since 21.01.200. [[on improving the regulation of relationships in the field of prevention and reduction of tobacco use, their harmful impact on public health]] It's only January of this year, number 1824. The draft Law on Amendments to Article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Fixed Agricultural Taxation — 3330 — was also submitted by Kabmin in the eighth year. In view of the fact that we have imposed it in the Ukrainian Act on Priorities and Amendments to certain legislative acts of Ukraine since 31.10.2008, number 639 and amending certain laws since February 4, this year number 922. [[on the prevention of the negative effects of the global financial crisis on the development of the agri-industrial complex]] It is also proposed to repeal the draft Law amending certain legislative acts, 3580 of the same eighth year, submitted by Kabmin, in view of the adoption of the Act amending certain legislative acts on taxation of the services of international passenger, luggage and cargo transport, international shipping, international leasing and international goods repairs of 04.06. 09: No.1451. It is also proposed to withdraw the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the prevention of the negative impact of the global financial crisis on the development of an agri-industrial complex on fiscal operations]] [[4348]] The bill provides for amendments to the Act amending certain laws that we have adopted. But he was declared unconstitutional in accordance with the Constitutional Court’s decision of 24.11.2009. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Taxes on the Income of Persons. [[4366]] Since the provisions of the bill are fully reproduced in section 9, paragraph 9, of the First Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on the Specificities of Financial Recovery of Banks, which we adopted with you in No. 1617 on 24.07.2009. The draft of the Law on Measures to Restrict the Smuggling of Beer, the ethyl alcohol content in which more than half a percent and low-alcoholic beverages are consumed. [[4653]] In view of the fact that all these issues have been fully settled and duplicated in the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts, which you and I adopted on January 21st of this year, No.1824. [[on the restriction of consumption and sale of beer and soft drinks]] The draft law amending some of the laws of Ukraine, submitted by me, Catherinechuk and Svašas as being a complete duplicate of Act No. 5416, which you and I passed on December 22nd last year, No. 1782. [[to prevent the impact of the global financial crisis on the development of the agri-industrial complex]] [[5429]] Please remove them from consideration, since the committee should deal with more pressing issues and not keep these laws that have become obsolete. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u81	Dear colleagues! If there are no questions, let us put to the vote and make the right decisions. Dear National Deputies! I'm betting on a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the withdrawal of some of the bills. [[Registration number 6108]] [[on taxation issues]] Please vote. [[11:28:02]] For 372 Decision taken. Thank you. A draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation (to prevent the legalization (washing) of proceeds obtained by criminal means and the fight against terrorist financing) is under consideration. The rapporteur is the National Deputy of Ukraine, Pisarenko Valeriy Volodymyrovich. The focal point is the head of the committee's subcommittee on the fight against organized crime and corruption, Rebecca Alexander Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u82	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! There's a proposal for a reduced procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u83	Is it not about calling back? Okay. Dear colleagues! The rapporteur suggests that the bill be reviewed in a simplified manner. I'm voting on this motion, please vote. [[11:29:02]] For 278 This vote can be considered as a basis for voting. Please, Valery Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u84	Dear colleagues! And then I'm going to quickly tell you the whole point of the bill, this is about Ukraine's commitment to FatF, and it's very true that it's actually the State Committee of Regulatory. This bill is being supported by the state-of-the-art monitoring today, and as we have established cooperation with FatF today, we believe that we need to move forward so that Ukraine does not even have the risk of appearing on the black, so-called FATF lists. What does this bill include? First of all, this is a new edition of article 209 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code on crime in the laundering of proceeds obtained in a criminal way. The initiative for these changes comes from the law enforcement agencies and, by the way, it should be emphasized that holdingfinguining does not apply this article of the code in its activities, since it does not conduct a pretrial investigation according to the authority. The second objective is to supplement the Criminal Code with a new article 258-5 on individual crime in terrorist financing. This is done to meet Ukraine’s international obligations in the area of terrorist financing, as well as to correct the direct comments of international experts who noted the need for changes in Ukraine’s legislation on these issues, as noted in the bill. Although an effective and effective system has been created in Ukraine today to counter the legalization of proceeds obtained by crime and the financing of terrorism, it is still a country that is lagging behind and constantly catching up on international standards. Our proposal is to adopt this bill in the first reading. We have already received appropriate proposals from the Ministry of Finance from this bill and will take them into account for the second reading in full. This means that we get extra weights to make Ukraine look like a country that's struggling with financing terrorism. In the light of what's happening today in the Russian Federation, I think that these bills are of increased relevance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u85	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Rebecca Alexander Grigorovich, committee decision, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u86	The honourable presiding, honourable colleagues, the need for adoption of the bill is due to the need to bring national legislation into line with international legal acts that will contribute to effective prevention and countering in Ukraine the legalization of proceeds that have criminal origin and the financing of terrorism. We came from supporting this bill, which is two special FATF recommendations, which are based on the positions of the international convention on the fight against terrorist financing, which requires criminalizing money-laundering, including recklessness, reviewing existing sanctions, and defining the financing of terrorism and terrorist organizations as a separate crime. As a result, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the bill be adopted on the basis of the first reading. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u87	Thank you, too, sit down, please. Dear colleagues! Please sign up for the bill. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Zinovo Skutak, faction of "Our Ukraine People's Self-Defense"
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u88	I give Arjevitina my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u89	Stanislaw Arjevitin, microphone, please go to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u90	Stanislav Arjewitin, group “For Ukraine!” Deputies! I'm going to suggest that we reject this bill, who wants to see it -- please read the conclusion of the Science and Experimental Authority. Here's an example. If we're going to adopt such bills, any person who, for example, sold an apartment and who was supposed to assume or should have had this criminal origin of money to be found can do it. Now she can be brought to criminal responsibility. If it's a fight against terrorism, I think I should say it's terrorists. The other one. By the way, these laws at the end of last year by laws, projects 4819, 4309 we rejected them -- that's the second. And this law is almost authentic in terms of these laws. Third. On our committee today, we are considering a basic bill of 3062, where we are basically addressing the issue of preventing the legalization of proceeds obtained by criminal means. Third. Today’s Criminal Code has established standards that are punishable by criminal negligence. The Administrative Code also provides for violations that are repeated here. Next. I wanted to point out that today we're talking about FATF, we don't have any claims, we don't have a threat to blacklists, we have a conclusion that we need to improve legislation and we're doing it, and we're expecting a basic bill of 3062. I would like to state why we should "screw" today if, according to the statistics of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, we are improving the situation. And why, today, thousands of people who participate in primary financial monitoring should receive from two to five years for deliberate or improper execution. So I suggest you listen to the conclusion and read again the conclusion of the Scientific and Expert Authority and send this bill for further elaboration, and by basic law we regulate these norms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u91	Thank you. Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u92	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I call on you not to vote for this bill for what reason. First of all, you know, we're recent, and the president recently signed a law that has put an end to the fight against corruption, and in these laws, you know, in basics, if 15 laws, including the issue of laundering, or the use of funds illegally obtained. Therefore, I believe that in view of the Supreme Council’s decision that this law will enter Ukraine since 2011 and at this time the issues that will be dealt with in a comprehensive manner by the Supreme Council are being addressed, I propose that this bill should be rejected and resolved in view of the fact that a comprehensive law will be passed, including the problem. That's one question. And the second question. Unfortunately, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I passed the law, he's on the Supreme Council committee for two years. The law says that I propose to legalize natural and legal persons who have received funds and are subject to the Criminal Code, which was in force at the time, without covering the economic, so to speak. I am confident that, as long as Ukraine takes into account that Ukraine's economy, much of it, and including our business subjects, including our citizens working abroad, has accumulated money and accordingly has not declared it, that the state has not carried out so-called legalization of funds, we will still have a shadow economy, we will still be included, or excluded from the FATF list, and until then Ukraine will be in a demeaning state. So I'd like to ask this question, first of all, to put this bill of mine in the hall so that it can be considered as a previous law, first of all, by what means we need to get order, we need to legalize this issue, we need to clean up where there is a crime that actually falls under international, so to speak, the crimes that the Ukrainian convention has signed and ratified, right? And there are crimes that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u93	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u94	There are crimes that are economic, they've already lost power. So let's do this, and then say you're going to be responsible for some kind of financial thing. No country with a transition economy has refused such a course. I hope that the President and the government will take a new path. And I call on the representative of the Ministry of Finance to listen to this view, and to follow this path is legalization, and then responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u95	Thank you. Yes, Your Honor, the bill is closed. Please, what suggestions from the government. Is there anyone from the government? Is there any evidence of this bill? _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Proposal from the Ukraine's Derjfinmonitoring: a request to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is closed. I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt as a basis for the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine (for the prevention of the legalization (washing) of proceeds obtained by criminal means and the fight against terrorist financing) (registration No. 5290). Please vote. [[11:38:59]] For 148 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on voting for re-reading the bill. [[Registration number 5290]] [[11:39:26]] For-37 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Central Electoral Commission is tabled for vote, honourable colleagues, and I apologize. [[concerning the limitation of the time limit for the preparation of the meeting of the committee when convened by at least one third of the members of the committee]] Registration number 2279. Rapporteur: Ukrainian National Deputy Kaplienko Vladimir Volodymyrovich. The focal point is the head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Upper Sergey Petrovich. Bodnar Olga. None. Please, Olga Borisovna, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u97	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Construction discussed at its meeting on 3 September 2008 the draft Act amending the Law on the Central Election Commission. [[concerning the limitation of the time limit for the preparation and holding of meetings of the commission when convened by at least one third of the members of the committee]] The committee also considered the conclusions that came to the bill. Thus, the Committee believes that the legal policy clauses do not contain any evidence of a violation of constitutional norms. According to the Committee on Budget Affairs, the bill has no impact on the income and expenditure of the State budget. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council makes separate remarks to the bill and considers that the first reading of the bill is to give the subject the right of legislative initiative back to work. However, the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government agreed with the proposals of the author of the bill and considered it appropriate to provide in the Law on the Central Election Commission for the right to be present at the Central Electoral Commission without its permission or invitation to the authorized persons of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's parliamentary factions, and to limit the deadline for the preparation and holding of the Central Electoral Commission's meeting when convened to no less than one third of its members. The Committee concluded that it would recommend to Parliament, in its first reading, a draft of the Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Central Election Commission, to adopt it as a basis. [[concerning the limitation of the time limit for the preparation and holding of meetings of the commission when convened by at least one third of the members of the committee]] The relevant draft decision of the Supreme Council submitted for Parliament's consideration please be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u98	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the question is to Olga Borisovna? If there is one, please sign in. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u99	Mrs. Olga, in a series of active laws that regulate activities, such as boards of all levels, committee meetings and so on, sometimes there is a situation where some members of the council want to put their candidatures on the council's head, on the council's secretary, and we usually only keep our heads in law. I believe that the democratization of process and choice in this case and in this case the convening of committees will be only for the benefit of the cause. Do you think it would be wise to place the positions laid down here in other existing laws?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u100	Thank you for asking. I also support that this standard is positive, because there is no other option to listen to the thought and consider the question if, for example, one third can't. And what you've said is what's going on in places is a serious enough problem for local governments. And it would really have to be supported in a broader way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u101	Thank you, Olga Borisovna. Have a seat. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the discussion. May I have the names of the people's deputies, please? Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Microphone or from the rostrum, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u102	Thank you. Vladimir Bondarenko, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", the “Reforms and Orders” party. The proposed norm is a norm that should democratize the lives of elected bodies. The situation is that restrictions on the right of individual candidates, restrictions on the right to convene meetings, lead to interesting things. I think that in the statutes of democratic parties there should also be a requirement for, and it is usually about the right to call or initiate the convening of some part of that party or of the primary organizations. This would allow for a more active discussion of internal problems, not stopping by discussing certain trends that have arisen and so forth. With regard to local self-government, I point out that we have had examples in many councils of this particular order of nomination of the Secretary-General of the Council or the submission of directors of commissions that do not allow competitive principles to identify candidates. The limitation of the right to be removed only by the council’s head leads to the practical solution of the matter. Regardless of the fact that other trends may appear in the course of discussion and voting, in fact a more popular or more active person may be chosen for a position. So I'm going to vote for this bill to become law. Because it democratizes the lives of the elected organs and the various commissions they create. And it doesn't give the monopoly to one person, to one person or to another, or to someone who replaces him at the time, to lead the created commission to something that can't even meet. We also had such experiences, you remember. So I would like to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u103	Yes, who else insists on the performance? Ruslan Knazevitch, microphone, faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, Vladimir Mikhailovich! Here's the thing. Last night, remember, here you announced that the Conciliation Board had decided that it was necessary to proceed immediately to the electoral code. I am convinced that if we continue to take something out of electoral legislation every day and try to do something as precise and as completely as possible for me, well, not to the fullest extent possible, small-scale steps, we will never accept this code. I understand that electoral legislation in general is very sensitive legislation. Because every national MP tries to write it in such a way as to predict his political future. But let's try to be as abstract now as possible from our political preferences and perspectives if we really want to make sure that in this country we have electoral legislation that can properly carry out the national will. The point is that the Central Election Commission Act is one of the urgent, I would say, basic laws in electoral legislation. Because it's a body that's actually involved in organizing and holding any election in this country to some extent. The point is that this law is really largely, let's say, morally outdated, because it was adopted in 2004 before the adoption of the relevant changes to the Constitution. And I can tell you that despite some cosmetic changes during the adoption of legislation on the election of national MPs and even the Presidential Election Act, certain mines were introduced, but they did not change the law. The law has to be real, I'm convinced of this, basically, fairly thorough, and by referring to a valid constitution, to change. But it can't be changed that way. I do not want to go into the essence of the law and also believe that the faction cannot have its representatives on the Central Electoral Commission, at least because the faction is not the subject of the electoral process by definition. A national deputy, as well as the subject of the electoral process for the election of national deputies, and as a person to whom the relevant provisions of the Constitution and the Law on Status are extended, has unimpeded access to the Central Election Commission. And you saw how many national deputies, for example, were in the last session when you were recognized by the elected President of Ukraine, Viktor Janukovic. I don't think someone was stopped at the door, someone was trying to avoid it and so on. To that end, the commission did not even need a decision to be made, nor did the commission even allow such an opportunity to prevent someone from attending its meeting. That's why the problem is premeditated. In view of these circumstances, I would ask very much, let's do it now until we get to the Electoral Code, so let's assume that we're imposing a moratorium on all electoral legislation. Because if we adapt it now and then re-adapt it, we're not going to accept the Electoral Code, we're never going to be able to have quality even if we have fragmented legislation in a particular kind of election. In view of these circumstances, this bill, with all due respect for the author, cannot now be accepted, but I think it must be taken into account in that working group that is now working in an inspired way on all electoral legislation for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u105	Thank you. Mikhailo Chechetov, Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u106	Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished colleagues, I fully agree with the representative of the people. Indeed, to date, five years before the election of the President, two and a half years before the election of the Parliament, almost a year before the local elections. We need to systematically address the issue, yes, systematically, yes, without wetting, without pulling, without patching, without making some patches, to replace some patches with others. Once prepared, once adopted systematically, is consolidated, as I think all political forces are interested in improving the electoral legislation. We have time. And it was quite right that the second sentence was to impose a moratorium on the introduction of such point-to-point, local, splinter-tapping bills, which would improve and balance somewhere, would distort them. Systematic decisions are taken under the electoral legislation at different levels: both the presidential and the elections to the Supreme Council, and the local, at the parliamentary level. I think these political forces will support Mr. Knazević's proposal. We're joining up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u107	Thank you. Dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of the bill. In fact, we have a certain conflict here. The working group has a draft law: the electoral code of Ukraine. And we agreed that up to 28 committees, factions, people's deputies are familiar with this document, 28 numbers are going to be presented. After that, we hold parliamentary hearings. And taking into account the proposals made, we will bring the election code to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Moreover, there will be such an offer that we accept it. adopted the corresponding draft decision as a result of his first consideration of re-reading, and the draft decrees determined what we were referring to for re-reading. And then consider taking into account the final suggestions in the first reading. And so, before this session is completed, we're going to be able to take the basis, and then we're going to figure out how to finally make the right decision. Such suggestions are in agreement with the committee and the working group. It's to your knowledge. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the committee's proposal to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Central Election Commission. [[concerning the limitation of the time limit for the preparation of the meeting of the committee when convened by at least one third of the members of the committee]] [[Registration number 2279]] [[11:52:48]] For the 18th. The decision is not taken. Clearly, the bill cannot be sent back to the first time. So I'm announcing that the bill has been rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, you are considering the draft Law on the Moratorium for the removal of green plantings in individual buildings, the green economy of the city of Kiev. Deputy Head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl Hare Ivan Aleksandrovich. So let's do this, we'll listen to the report, we'll announce a break, and after the break, we'll continue the debate on this bill. Please, Ivan Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u108	Honorable National MPs, me, national deputy Yuri Kostenko, have been introduced to your consideration a bill that will introduce a five - year moratorium on the removal of land on individual objects in the city of Kiev. Perhaps one of you will find this initiative too radical and very local, for what is happening to the city of Kiev is also happening throughout Ukraine. In fact, the initiative is to introduce in Kiev a moratorium on the removal of green plants, in simple language, to the destruction of green plants, is consistent with the moods of the vast majority of China. And it is a necessary step to preserve Kiev as a city with a healthy environment. Most of you, the distinguished national deputies, live in Kiev, and therefore you are witnessing a daily reduction in the barbaric way of green areas in squares, parks, instigating areas, etc. Every day the media reports the illegal destruction of hundreds of trees, the acute conflicts between citizens and those who methodically and criminally liberate the city from green plantings. The opposition here has reached such a level that these disputes against citizens are used by lawbreakers of gang formation and quite often by law enforcement authorities who, in the event of this new “Gerostram” are fabricating criminal cases against public activists. Here are some examples of the thoughtless destruction of green plants. Between December 29, 2009, and January 4, 2010, 250 pine trees were cut down between Brovarsky Avenue and Mališka Street in Kiev, tens of trees being nearly 100 years old. As a result of the investigation, a criminal case was committed. In the very center of Kiev, almost across the street of Krestatik and the street of the Prosperity, a square was also destroyed. The trees were massively destroyed at the “Jules” airport and at the Golossian Forest. Not one ax is found on the Dniper Islands, such as Truhan Island, Žukiv Island, and others. This terrible martyrologist can continue and continue. I'm going to name just one digit that shows the real magnitude of the destruction of the green plantations in Kiev. It was only in 2009 that five acres [5 ha] of green plants were cut out. A few words about the structure and content of the bill. The preamble notes that the purpose of this law is to prevent the massive removal of green plants in Kiev, which have harmful effects on the natural environment, sanitary and recreational conditions, and the quality of life of citizens in the capital city, as well as the health of the population and its aesthetic education. The first article identifies the terms used in the bill. The second article states that a five - year moratorium is imposed on the following objects in the green economy of Kiev in squares, botanical gardens, parks, forest parks, recreational zones, urban forests, suburban, green areas, steep slopes, green areas, coastal areas, and water - protection zones, on the islands of the Dnipro River within the territory of Kiev. The third article of the bill allows the removal of individual green plantings in the event of an accident or the elimination of the consequences of a natural disaster, an emergency, and an emergency. So you see, the bill is completely reasonable. He takes into account various situations. The enforcement of the moratorium on green plantings is based on article 4 on the State’s environmental protection authorities. At the end of the bill, I assign: the Cabinet of Ministers to draft the Law on Green Cities and Other Populations, which will be based on the principles of sustainable environmentally balanced development of urban areas. Ensure that legislation is brought into line with this law by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the executive authorities in place. Inventory of conservation facilities in cities and other populated areas, including green parks, forest parks, and recreational areas. Ensure that the existing green farming facilities are introduced into the city and other populated areas and that they are accounted for in future land plans and in the development of land projects. To ensure that urban and other locations, existing sites are well - organized, green, and green. Name a few possible ways to improve the bill in the second reading mode. First. The act of law will be extended to all inhabited areas, if the will of the national MPs is to do so, this is what the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration concludes. The land area of general use is declining in most cities and villages in Ukraine. Due care has been extended to only half of the green areas, resulting in deterioration of their sanitary condition, an increase in drought and pests and tree diseases. Nor is proper funding provided for green plantings, and so forth. We're going to have to improve the terms in the Final Positions, because the law was passed back in 2008, and it's clear that the terms here don't match our current tasks, it's pretty easy to do this work technically on second reading. Another argument to convince you, honourable deputies, to adopt this bill in the first reading. I would like to draw your attention to the positive results of the Moratorium Act on the mountain slopes of the Carpathian region, which was adopted in February 2000. Until this logging process was orderly, there were solid sections, there was mountain degradation and as a result all of these submerged. Now there's a moratorium, and please be kind, bring legislation into line, a material and technical base, and it stopped to some extent this barbaric destruction. We also hope that the adoption of this law will motivate local authorities, motivate the legislator, motivate the Cabinet of Ministers to create appropriate legislation, the legal and regulatory system, to take real measures to preserve green plantings. We need to finally understand that we live in cities that are polluted, that trees are a function of absorbing carbon dioxide, that they're protecting people from noise, that they're creating some recreational possibilities today. So I ask you, National MPs, to adopt this bill in the first reading and we will take a big step towards improving the environment in the direction of ensuring the health of our citizens. It's going to be a demonstration that people's deputies have finally started to think about categories of sustainable development, not categories of the IXX or the 20th century, when people thought that the natural system had no boundaries that could be used thoughtlessly on a massive scale by natural resources. In fact, at some point in this rostrum, I claim that today the limit of human civilization is natural capital, that is, land, forests, water. And what our action is in terms of a limit resource, we have to use this resource in a cost-effective way, we have to invest in its restorative part. So please vote for this bill in the first reading, work on the second and we'll take it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, we have a recess of up to 12 hours 30 minutes. After the break, we will continue to consider the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u110	Dear National Deputies! We continue our consideration of the draft Law on the Moratorium for the removal of green plantings on individual objects through the green economy of Kiev. The report was delivered by Ivan Alexandrovich. Please sign up for a question to the reporter. Yes, the Pavlovsky People's Deputy, the faction of the Timoshenko Yulia Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u111	Mr. Ivan, thank you for the law, as a cyanide, first of all, is a very relevant law. At the same time, I have a question to ask you, but would it still be necessary to write more detail about the increased responsibility for illegal logging of green plants, especially in urban areas, because these lungs are breathed not only by the Chinese but also by the inhabitants of other cities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u112	Of course, one of the weak places in our legislation is a very weak responsibility for violating environmental legislation. But what I'm saying is, if you've read the Transitional Statutes of the Bill carefully, and it's supposed to be the Ukrainian Green Plantation Act and other population sites. It's going to be one of those very important complex laws that will regulate all of these processes. And we need to step up, we need to step up, and we need to get into the Administrative Code, and the Criminal Code needs to be amended. But today my initiative is to stop this destructive action of these heroes, because Kyiv is turning into a stone bag, and soon people will not get to the river, nor to the square, nor to anything, to live in this city.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u113	Moisik Volodymir Romanovich, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u114	Vladimir Moisik, “For Ukraine” MP. Give the word to your colleague Karpuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u115	Vladimir Karpuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u116	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!” Ivan Alexandrovich, thank you for the bills and is really excited about your concern for the greening, agreeing with your material in the explanatory note about how much has been cut. But I would like to draw a completely controversial conclusion from that material: Why is it just a moratorium? This is just one aspect of the big problem. Why not think about the law or the program on urban greening? Indeed, you yourself are saying that in recent years, not only Kiev but also many cities have suffered, all of them practically cities in Ukraine. So why not think about the Green or Green Zone Act, the greening programs in the country, and it needs money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u117	The fact is that the processes of mass destruction of green plants are so intense that some radical measures must be taken. Because you know, I told you in my report that the general public is literally fighting for every tree, for every park, for every speck. But that's why we want to stop this process of destruction, and at the same time we're running this law because of the final position, just all the measures that need to be done, I'm going to repeat them to you. It is also the Law to Enact Green Cities, and other populated sites, that is given the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers. Inventory of environmental sites in cities and other populated areas needs to be carried out, and these green areas need to be moved to cartographic materials, in kind, and a huge job needs to be done in order for our habitats to become viable. So this is the first stage to stop the destructive processes and then move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u118	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u119	Yuri Carmazin. I want to thank you for raising that question. Regrettably, if this law had been passed two years ago when you had made it, there would probably not have been the devastating consequences that the invasion of modern - day Batiatus would have had on Kiev. I'd like to ask you about these things by law. Do you not see that this law also required an article on responsibility for breaking the law? Because there is no such article. There's just a moratorium, but we have today, you know, the Constitution of Ukraine is not being implemented, the Head of the National Bank is in office on December 17th, and it's governing, and today it's about loans and so on. A higher court of commerce has been released without trial or investigation, and thousands of claims have been made and hundreds of thousands have been made. Trees near Stus' house, hundreds of trees destroyed with impunity, and we're not talking about responsibility. I want to hear your opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u120	I think in the second reading we can also increase the responsibility for, well, violations, for example, this law and other laws. It's all a second reading job. But right now, I think we need to stop just this destructive process. There's such a big raid going on. People don't even think that they're turning from green arrays, well, into a whole, I'd say, not fit for the lives of people in the territory. And only when they see the effects of their activities do they grab hold of their heads and move on. Here's what happened, for example, with the Dniper Valley. They came first, they saw this space, they saw these flooded meadows, "Oh, I want a house here!" And then there was this whole horde, and then there were no bows, there was no space. There's just a split, just carried down by Dniper. And then they run from there again to the quality of the new territory. So my initiative is to stop this process first, and in a year or two, to develop all this legislation, to take action, and to strengthen responsibility. I support you in your proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u121	Yes, the honourable colleagues, yes, completed questions. Sit down, Ivan Alexanderovich. I'm asking you to sign up for a bill. Yes, from the people's deputies, please show me. Pavlovsky National Deputy, the “Julia Timoshenko Block” faction. Please. The next one will be George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u122	Dear compatriots, national MPs! The bill for a five-year moratorium on barbaric green plantings in our capital in Kiev, primarily foresees a moratorium on cutting trees and other green plants in squares, botanical gardens, parks and other reactional ones, yes, thank you, zones, and above all what needs to be addressed, is the protection of coastal strips on the islands of Dnipra. And we know that the islands all around Kiev have long been sold under construction and in my lifetime as a deputy of Kyivrada, I remember in one night the team of our mayor divided more than one and a half thousand hectares into islands adjacent to Kiev and handed over, as when the law enforcement authorities began to work out, thousands of hectares of land were written down by some misunderstood students. Then it became clear that these are members of one national MP, let's say what in this room are these one and a half thousand hectares on the islands. We know which half of the hall, yes. But we're the ones who got distracted. I want to say that we witnessed the same thing when the Stusa Park was destroyed in the Sanhedrin region, almost all the trees were slaughtered, even though it was the right decision of Kyivrada to create a park there. And on the other hand, besides the law, I call on the public, because when the public is concerned, when people unite and I have already said I was the deputy of Kievrada, and I am a witness when people unite and I was able to use people to gather more than one and a half thousand signatures to accept and execute the decision of Kyivrada to save from destruction in the Shevchenkov district of the Park, the square of Zoya Kosmodemyansk, also the square in the Pecher district of Zankovecki. So there are examples where both the public and the legislators can influence and save. And as for this bill, I think there's really been a lot of comments by MPs here, proposals to take into account positions to increase the responsibility for illegal green planting in urban areas to criminalize. And I think it's a principled law, not a political one, and I think we should unanimously support it in this room, and so we'll give it a first-hand gift for the Chinese, and then, I think, for the inhabitants of other cities. Thank you for your attention. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u123	Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u124	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear National MPs, the bill that we are considering, introduced by the People's Deputies, our colleagues Kostenk and Zayj, could have been considered in 2008 because everything was ready for that in June 2008. And according to this, the government's mandate and the government, prepared in the final positions, and the government of Ukraine, were to draft the law and ensure that the laws of Kabmin were brought into conformity with the laws and regulations of the country, and that environmental protection facilities were inventoryd in cities and other populated areas, i.e. they went beyond Kiev, and in Kiev itself, and in order to secure the transfer of French materials to other urban areas within existing green-economy facilities. Sadly, nothing was done at the right time. Now it's a date question. Obviously, the dates that are set there in 2008 are on page four, or by September 1, 2009, they're all out of date. That's why they need to be sucked. I think this can be done by the government inventory throughout 2010. I think we should also write here, by September 1, 2010. That is, a year should be allowed to rise. The other one. This law, I believe, which is to be adopted, should add an article on responsibility for violating the moratorium on responsibility for breaking the law. Including foresight of responsibility for both physical and legal persons. Why? Because, look at how in this case, as reported by Ivan Alexandrovich, 250 trees were destroyed and, as a result of the 20 January review, criminal proceedings were committed against the fact that the Society's officials had exceeded their authority with limited responsibility, “The Jarus Project Company”. And it was not against these individuals to break the criminal case, but against those who put the land where the trees were growing. That's who we had to break up with. Because each tree has to sign its own permit. For this reason, I believe that the law, where the key article, article 2 of the law, the introduction of a moratorium on the removal of green plantings, should be written, after the words: “In squares, botanical gardens, parks and so on”, “and adjacent territories”. Because of the construction of houses near botanical gardens that completely destroy them, botanic gardens are inconvenient. And we don't assume responsibility for that. I ask you to adopt this law as quickly as possible and put about.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u125	Thank you. Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u126	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! First of all, I want to answer the rhetorical question of Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin that the current authorities have done nothing to keep the trees from being cut down near Stus' house. I want to assure the parliamentarians that the past authorities have done nothing to keep the trees from being cut down near Stus' house. I want to assure the deputies that the current power at the head of Victor Yanukovic will do anything to keep the trees from being cut down near Stus' house, and not only near Stus' house, but also in Kiev, yes. The bill proposes the introduction of a five - year moratorium on the removal of green plantings on listed sites in the city of Kiev, allowing only selective removal of selected green plantings on specified sites during the specified term, in the event of the need to deforest the trees or eliminate the effects of natural disasters, accidents, and emergencies. The problem of conservation of green plants exists in all of Ukraine's population, not only in Kiev, which is, in principle, noted in an explanatory note to this bill. Therefore, its legislative solution should apply to all inhabited areas, not just the city of Kiev. While appreciating the state of legal regulation of the protection and use of green plantings in populated areas, it is important to note the existence of a fairly detailed system of legislation that ensures such regulation. In the development of laws, numerous regulations and regulations have been adopted that specify the rules and mechanisms for the protection and rational use of green plants in cities, which define, inter alia: order and accounting, registering of green plants at species and ages, inventory of green plants and the extent to which they are financed, management of green farms. So the issue of the protection and maintenance of green plantings is very carefully regulated in a variety of legal and regulatory acts. Despite this, however, the area of green grassland is declining in most cities and villages in Ukraine, with adequate care, less than half of the green areas are covered, resulting in deterioration of their sanitary condition, increased droughts and pests and tree diseases. Nor is proper funding provided for green plantings, and so forth. The reason for this is the failure to comply with the regulations and the low level of control over the implementation of the legislative requirements for the protection and maintenance of green areas, the lack of attention by the relevant authorities to the problems identified. The faction of the Party of the Regions supports the Bill of John Alexander the Rabbit and suggests that it be accepted on the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u127	National Deputy Korge, “Julia Timoshenko” faction. Vladimir Karpuk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u128	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Vitaly Corge, faction of the "Julia Tymoshenko". I believe that the draft Law on the Moratorium to Remove Green Plants on Certain Objects is of great relevance to the green economy of Kiev’s colleague Yuri Kostenka. [[No. 2393]] Our environment needs protection at the legislative level. The author suggests introducing a five - year moratorium to remove green plants from some of the green farms in Kiev. In squares, botanical gardens, parks, forest parks, recreational zones, urban forests, suburban green areas, steep slopes, green areas, coastal areas, and water protection areas on the Dnipro Islands. According to the project, selective removals of selected green plants may take place in the event of a fall in the trees or an elimination of the consequences of a natural disaster, an accident, and an emergency. State environmental authorities should ensure that the moratorium is kept under constant control. The project also contains, and is particularly important, a number of government tasks, such as the development of a draft Ukrainian law on greening cities and other populated areas, the provision of green-farming facilities and the transfer in nature. By actively supporting all the provisions of the bill, including the proposed additions to the honourable Jury Carmazin, I call on colleagues from the Ukrainian National Deputies to vote on the basis as a whole. This will be a good sign for all society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u129	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” faction. Vladimir Bondarenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u130	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Undoubtedly, we need to support Bill 2393, proposed by the people’s deputies Costenko and Zayt, and thank them for this initiative. The bill can be taken as a basis because there are many suggestions, and there are many things to think about. Organized by the national deputies, the problem is quite serious, in my opinion. Because in recent years, Kiev has rapidly lost its palm tree as one of the greenest cities in the world. As a percentage, in terms of the total area and in terms of the number of green plantings per Kiev resident, the number of rows has plummeted in recent years. See what is happening not only in Kiev but also in other cities. And to those MPs who say that the authorities did it, I'll tell them that the authorities have built magnificent choirs in the botanical gardens of many district centers, including the city of Donetsk. And it's active in both the conservation zones and the parks that have historical significance. You don't have to go far from the Supreme Council, you just have to go out to Mariana Park, take a walk on a sad, notorious house in Gruszewski, 9, which is built, practically, in Mariana Park, and, of course, has a negative impact on the preservation of this historic park. Therefore, we need to consider strengthening our responsibility. Because even Russian legislation provides for strict measures for those who build up in conservation zones. Especially when it is arbitrary, or if it is illegal, regardless of positions, regardless of titles and the popularity of those or other people in the nation. It should all be responsible for green plantings. And you can take the example of those countries that we thought could not grow there. Because even this takes a lot of capital investment, let's say we plant a bush -- it's 200 to 300 grams of one bush, it's a tree -- 1,500 dollars -- it needs money, it needs programs. And I think that the adoption of this law will be an incentive to adopt such programs at the district level, at the city level, and we really need to do it now. Because even in those two years, when this bill was published in the Supreme Council, many trees were destroyed in Kiev itself. Thank you and please, I urge you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u131	Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u132	Vladimir Bondarenko, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", the “Reforms and Orders” party. Of course, today’s introduction of such a bill is entirely justified by the practice of land use in Kiev and the protection of green areas, unfortunately it is late. And the individual questions that I asked about, including that, were left unanswered earlier. I'd like to draw attention to the fact that urban documentation starts with a Master Plan, where there's a balance between green areas, communal areas, residential buildings, and so on. There are five types of land that should not be touched. If in the Master Plan it's an isolated green zone, or it's an area of historical protection, or it's an engineering area where future roads, communication, or areas that are allocated to socio-cultural objects, or it's areas that are already under construction today, you can't touch them. Thus, during the years of the Czernovetsk regime, 1,000, 400 were added to the Master Plan, without adequate compensatory replacements for those zones that were destroyed. This was first of all the Forest Hall, where there was no way to touch the house today, and eight years ago there were thousands of 120-year-olds and older oaks and pines. I note that the main protagonists in this area were all the time very interesting structures: the Ukrainian Security Service, the Department of State Protection. In recent times, they have become involved in active activity and State administration, even though they do not have any legal right to maintain the building because it is not a host object. But the first parts for this famous service have been taken away today. And I'd like to run a test on how the new government, the new president would view the building-up of that structure that's completely in its alignment, and I mean the structure of the National Security and Defence Council that led to the Borstagians on the street of Jacob Colossus, there's a piece of land in the green zone. And I'd like to point out that today we don't have clear rules of compensation for what's been lifted, and there's no face of the person who actually initiated this demolition. If there was criminal responsibility for illegal land cutting, for example, in the same Stus Park, one of the presidential candidates Pabat would be sitting on the bench of the defendants instead of persuading which one would be a good president, and he would not sit and continue to convince and there, along with the "Chernecki Block" and the Party of Regions, all of these land areas in Kiev were taken away, or changed the master plan of the forgetfulness. [[has a faction in Kyivrad]] I would like to make this clear to people and let us know who is actually the initiator and hero of this destruction of Kiev's green face. I think this law needs to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u133	Dear colleagues! The bill is closed, the position of the government, please. _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! There's a bill that's just been drafted by the National MP, John Alexanderovich Zayj, and in general, supporting the purpose of the bill, which aims at correcting the situation in Kiev with the removal of green plantings, we have made a number of proposals and comments to this bill. The proposals primarily relate to the terminology used in this bill. We have proposed to bring it into line with the existing legislation and laws of Ukraine, as well as a number of comments that we believe are improving the bill. In general, as I said before, these observations and proposals do not change the substance and purpose of this bill and our proposal to accept it today as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u134	Dear National Deputies! The committee proposes to adopt this bill as a basis. I'm betting on voting on the committee's proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft law. on the adoption as a basis of the draft Law on the Moratorium for the Removal of Green Plants on Certain Objects of the Green Economy of Kiev, please vote. [[Registration number 2393]] [[13:00:25]] For 354 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am announcing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the overall structure and number of the Ministry of Interior. [[registration number 1383]] Rapporteur: National Deputy of Ukraine Moskal Hennady Hennadiyyyovich, co-rapporteur of the committee's subcommittee on legal protection issues, Prokopchuk Yuri Volodymyrovich. Please, Hennady Hennadiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u135	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I ask your attention, because the question is really serious. Today, the number of interior ministries defined by law is 324 thousand 400. Similarly, in the new edition, no one reduces or increases a single unit. There was such a covert case that the legislator himself, the Supreme Council, made the local police, but the 2003 Budget Code banned funding, budget increases, i.e. since 2003, the mass of people, which is about 39,000, comes at the expense of vacancies, on account of those who went on specific vacations and so on. They're in total numbers and they're not going to give the budget what these 324,000 400 people are, but these people are not actually protected today because they're working in a local militia that is not actually there today. That is why I have a proposal to exclude such a concept as “local police” because the local authorities do not have the right to finance it and according to budgetary legislation, and it affects these 324,000 400 people. This bill has been going to the Supreme Council since 2008, and it's actually just people who can get into any situation tomorrow, and they're not going to be violated by law, because they're already in those structures that actually don't exist. I don't understand today. I had previously spoken with coalition representatives who said they wouldn't support it. Your honor, this is your right. But the Ministry of Internal Affairs is in your hands today, and if it snows back Sunday in Moscow, it will be in Kiev after Sunday. If you think that the processes that are going on in Moscow, Dagestan and others today, in Russia -- they're not going to get to Ukraine, well, it's a little bit of doubt for someone who doesn't understand anything in the law enforcement system. So I'm asking you very much to support and actually give these people a status that they can acquire, really, police personnel. And it didn't count in any police force that, in fact, there is no local police today, and the Law on Change in the General Structure of the Ministry of Internal Affairs has ruled out the local police as long gone and they don't exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the interview. Show me the names of the people's deputies. Valerius Beales, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u137	Dear Gennady Ivanovich! The situation in the country is in such a way that over the past 10 years the state, dynamics and crime rates in Ukraine remain essentially constant is the order of half a million crimes. Do you not think that the problem of the organizational functional structure of the Ministry of Internal Affairs should be addressed in a comprehensive manner along with the proposals you are proposing today? Since both the coalition and the new minister have stated that they will seriously reform the system in general, could this problem be solved in a complex manner and go deeper into solving the problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u138	Valery Ananiyovich, knowing you as one of the Ministry's experienced employees, but let me disagree with you. Population is shrinking! We don't have the 52 million we got in 1991. But the population is declining, and the number of crimes is increasing, that is, paradoxes! If the population declines, the number of crimes committed is expected to decrease. Today, read the enigma. There's no day in the streets where there's no shooting, there's no day where there's no explosion, there's no day where they don't rob a bank, there's no money exchange, there's a gas station, or there's no family shooting, there's no money, there's jewelry, and there's nothing like that. Read the statements, we used to think that banks, these are Hollywood's inventions, and today it's a real reality and it's almost every day, and in almost every region of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u139	Thank you. Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u140	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Dear Gennady Hennadiovich, I'd like to tell you first. I didn't mean to ask the first question, but the political forces that you have just joined as a national deputy and have supported in recent years have initiated and they have launched the exact mechanism of economic, social and other reforms that today lead to the rise of crime. For whatever we talk about, the increase in crime today lies in the economic plane that is in the state. But that's not my question. I have a question that you probably know that the local police and this definition, when proposed, was one of the additional sources of funding for the Ministry of Internal Affairs. I cannot agree with your proposal today just one part, which is certainly necessary today for the Ministry and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to make a proposal on the basis of the very number of employees.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u141	I'll answer your question. First. I commit every month to publish the statistics of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and then we'll see who did better and who did worse. Let the people see. The other one. Change the Budget Code, Your Honor. What local police are you talking about? If the Budget Code says that funding from two police budgets is prohibited, only from the State budget of Ukraine, dot.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u142	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u143	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Hennaday Hennadiovich, my question will consist of three. First. Perhaps we should keep in mind in article 1 the local police or, if we do not leave, make changes to the Police Act. I mean, just to get it out of there, too. Because I remember a former minister in this room being proved as necessary by such an institution. And the second article is to do as you suggest. The second aspect of the problem that I would like to ask you, as an experienced general, a police officer. Disclosure is also affected by professionalism, can it affect, when it is currently taking place in 5 areas, the appointment of former judges and those who have been brought to criminal responsibility by the heads of the police district authorities, the people? - One. And secondly, the policy is that more than one and a half thousand have already been released in two weeks, and it is proposed to be released at the request of professionals.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u144	Ladies and gentlemen, I will answer all three questions. We're talking about funding the police. First of all, it's going to depend on how much it's going to be released. Because every freed person costs nearly a 10-year detention of one police officer. So it's all going to depend on action. And the way they're getting laid today, it's going to take five to six budgets, and we're not doing it around here today. We don't ask and the Ministry doesn't ask for any more money. As far as I'm concerned, I'm saying once again, let's take this as a basis, so there's no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And you don't want to take it. So we're going to take it completely as a base and then, and then we're going to make the right law so that it actually works.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u145	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u146	Yes, that's the answer to the third question. We counted May 12th, and Vladimir Mikhailovich remembers when the Muchakov elections in 2004 were decided by the Supreme Council to release from the internal affairs of Varzabu, Rusin, and a host of fellow workers. The Attorney General's Office conducted an investigation. Many received probationary terms and went under amnesty, and today all martyr figures are appointed to the district authorities of internal affairs. So everyone who's been in Interpol's files today is in charge of internal affairs. Yes, Your Honor, this is a question for me. Yuri Anatolyovich, here's to the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u147	Thank you. Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u148	Dear Hennadia Hennadiovich! I'd like to ask you, as a professional, one question. Mr. Carmazin and I used to draft bills on local government militias. We may have been wrong, but it seemed to us that certain functions that were placed on the central police today could be carried out by units created by local councils, only certain functions, they would not have the full rights of those who now have the militia. And for example, environmental control of the area, sanitation, use in the protection of mass action, where it's just like married couples used to work. Whether or not to move part of this function to the local level. I agree with you absolutely, and many of our neighbors have such local police. It protects markets, graveyards, parks, and so forth. But we need the law, this is the law on militia and the state police, and we need parliament to draft a law on local police that will carry out purely protective functions, and we're going to say, fight against illegal parking, natural trafficking and other functions that are not the property of the state police today. But to do so, we need to develop a law. The Police Act can only be financed from the State Budget, which is impossible from the local budget today, and a representative, head of the Budget Committee, if you give him the word out of place, he will confirm that he is sitting today in the “Livina Block”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u149	Paul Sulkowski, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u150	Thank you. Paul Sulkowski, faction of the Party of the Regions, Ravenshkin. First of all, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'd like to tell you that we're just wasting time, but that's the order we have to waste. For what reason? Well, first of all, this bill, we know very well. He said he wouldn't make it today, they just won't support him. For what reasons? First of all, you've been a reporter for five years today, you've been in power, you've been a coalition, you've seen it all, you haven't made that decision, and you haven't thought about doing it. Now that you're in opposition, you can see that this is an extremely necessary bill. I think today's new team of the Ministry of Interior led by the Cabinet of Ministers will really reform this structure, I'm sure. And they'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u151	Your Honor, we have a conversation that the deaf can't hear, it'll come up. My law was introduced in 2007, look at the registration why it fell. This is not a question for me, but a question for the Secretary of the Supreme Council. In 2007, I just started doing the Supreme Council, as I did. Take a look at all the findings of the Scientific and Expert Office since 2008. And where was he? Are you asking me? What do you do with a sick person’s problems? So you've taken over.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u152	Thank you. Please sit down, Hennady Hennadiovich. I'm just making one point. This bill has been on the committee since 2007. And the committee has now come to the conclusion that it can be submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So, unfortunately, practice. We need to clear up the committee work so that all the bills can be considered and made up their minds. This has nothing to do with the author. That's the committee's problem. Correspondent is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement activities, Yuri Volodymyrovich Prokopchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u153	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The bill proposes to amend articles 1 and 2 of the Ukrainian Law on the overall structure and number of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, which excludes the local police, which has already been mentioned. And the number of internal affairs that are kept from the State budget corresponds to the current one. So it's increasing by 32.2 thousand people who were previously funded from local budgets. Thus, the number of internal affairs officials held at the expense of Ukraine’s state budget increases from 190 000 500 to 222. 700 with a total population of 324 thousand people. According to an expert opinion of the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine since 14.02.2008, the implementation of the bill requires additional expenditure from the state budget to maintain an additional number of IMF employees of 27 000 946 persons, which will amount to 808 million dollars per year. In view of what the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance thinks possible, however, I would like to make this possible, by the way, by providing for an increase in the number of internal affairs officials held from the state budget by 4 000 704 persons, by identifying them as 195 000 204 persons. It should be noted that the implementation of the bill does not require an increase in budgetary expenditure for the Ministry of Internal Affairs, since the maintenance costs that were previously financed from local budgets before 2003 have been foreseen in the state budget of Ukraine. The non-admission of the bill will lead to the need to reduce the corresponding number of workers, to decommission individual units, to village police departments, which will affect the level of public service, to review and respond to citizens’ reports. So they're going to be reduced there, they're going to be drawn from the composition of those who are dealing directly with citizens in the countryside, in small towns, in small populated areas, so that you know who this is about. In addition, there is a serious problem in assigning graduates to this and subsequent years of high school graduates who have already chosen the professional course of law enforcement. In view of the IMF's position on supporting the bill, the committee adopted a decision at its meeting on 10 July 20068 recommending that the Supreme Council adopt Bill No. 1383 in its first reading on the basis. I also ask my colleagues to support us, because we have a lot of talk about reforms, and reform is not just about having to write a voluntary release report to the cleaning house alone. And what is happening in internal affairs today is that professionals who really know how to catch bandits change to those who know how to bring cash to their respective bosses. And of course, both our committee, and I think today's opposition, and the people of Ukraine are not going to be silent on this. Because we have, as they say, now the reasons are talking about it. We'll see about that. Because now there's really going to be assignments like this, which we've already talked about, which is sorry, it's getting somewhere out there, as they say, the hair that it has, is being blown. From. And that won't do any good, dear colleagues of today's government, because you can't play with law enforcement, you can't play with the army. Rumors are spreading that by 50 years of age there has been an increase in prices or retirement age, and letters are being sent out where all social guarantees by today’s government want to take out the muscle. You can't, once again, play with the forces and the Armed Forces. Not enough panic has been created there, that the best experts are getting away by themselves. And they said it right here, it's much more expensive today, because the budget is going to be broken when everyone gets what's theirs. That's why I call for prudence, I'll say it in Russian. And please support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u154	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the question to Yuri Volodymyrovich, please, if there is one. Is it? Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u155	Yuri Volodymyrovich, I'd like to ask you a question as a former officer of the IMF. If you have the facts that someone is carrying a cash register somewhere, you mean that you, as a former officer, are standing in the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and please call things your names. Because you just committed a crime, it's called undercarriage. You are obliged to report to the Attorney General’s Office who demanded the money and where it was carried. That's the first remark. The other one. If you're such a great expert in the IMF system, why don't you try yourself in this queen? Take the district inspector to your home area, and show everyone an example. Third. What are you talking about? You yourself sow panic and gossip from the roost. What 50 percent? What 50 years? You're spreading gossip from the rostrum. This is unacceptable. And the last. My dear colleague, if this is about the municipal police and the local authorities are funding it, please let them finance it. And reform is about improvement. I used to get the salary of 260 Soviet rubles as a young lieutenant.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u156	Thank you. Well, they're like, you know, morals. Thank you so much for your educational work. Well, I'm telling you, it's not a former officer, it's a reserve colonel, because there's no ex-officer. I'm not retired, I'm in reserve. And the staff, by the way, although military, isn't cheap. It's also a difference, you know? And as division commander, by the way. So, I want to tell you that a letter sent by Mr. Tihypk today from the Cabinet of Ministers, which is headed by Mr. Azarov, who has been sent by all means with the suggestions they have to gather there to harm one another, the other, the third, the fifth. [[your government]] There's that letter, I'll show you. So you answer for your words. The other one. As for those who have been appointed today, they have already said about them: that these are people, including those who have been in international search, and this is in a number of areas -- it's true, it's a fact that I've been doing exactly what I said. That's why, therefore, an honorable colleague. of those who carry out an honest service. And make your contribution.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u157	Vladimir Landik, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u158	Thank you. You know, if you go back a little bit more to Carmazin's question about what's going on a lot. And who created the substitution or rotation system when you did.? Not the head of the OAI moves from the area to the area, but the echelon with all the traps, with all the baits, with all the heads of the services — GAI, OCSS, criminal search, all the secretaries. That's where you're going from the area to the area of all the echelon. Clearly, now the same echelon is being released, everything is going away. Even with Kuchma, not just the Soviet authorities, the head of the U.S.A. walked in, one came in, one worked with the team when there was one. You created this fight in five years that nobody needs a job, you need to get the whole team set up. My accountant, all of his, all of his portfolios, then we buy the next share with these portfolios. This is the result of your five-year activity and you are responsible for it and accept it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u159	Thank you for another recommendation. So you are faced with the very one who is absolute, decisively opposed to today’s politicization of the entire law enforcement structure and all the other powers. And this is not to say that today all officers in the DMV, the Armed Forces, are hostage to the arrival of one or another team, as you say. And I've never personally supported such an approach. For me, there is a basic definition: it is the level of professionalism and the service of the people of Ukraine. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u160	I did not set an example.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u161	Pavlovsky People's Deputies, Timoshenko's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u162	Mr. Yuri, indeed, the issue is topical and the law must be supported in the first reading. At the same time, there is concern about information from areas where police officers are being released. We have already reached the point where not only the heads of the RSD, the heads of the service, have reached the point where the district inspectors are being released. And by the political sign, what have you done to win the Party of Regions? Why, he did nothing, write a statement of his own. This political homage has to be stopped in the state, once. If we really are building a state of law. And I wanted to ask you. Is there really an opportunity in the State budget to increase the number of police by that amount, by the number of people proposed in the law?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u163	Thank you. I remind everyone once again that the increase in the State budget for financing the Ministry of Internal Affairs, by the way, I remind you once again that leadership has already been mentioned there, that it's not done under someone, for someone who's doing it in order to legitimize the activities of those people who are in the villages today. That's where I was recommended for business or something. I grew a little out of these pants. Think of your better youth and go and work there, maybe there will be so much. And so that their work and their activities are secure and protected in order to protect their social security. And there's absolutely no political, there's no basis. Our committee is called the Law Enforcement Committee. And as a member of this committee, I stand in the interest of those who belong to a committee that not only needs to be controlled and not only scolds but sometimes think for them. That's what we're doing, actually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u164	Thank you. Please sit down for a while. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the bill. It's being recorded by factions. Now, please sign in. Please put your name on the board. Andrew Schlell, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Next will be Paul Zebrowsky. Gennady Hennadiovich, at the end of the performances, the Ministry will say.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u165	Dear fellow national MPs! Dear Chairman! Dear radios and television audiences! This is who witnessed the discussion can and does not understand what the problem is, and the problem is very simple: there is a tradition of funding the local police from the local budgets, the budget code forbids it, and in this situation something needs to be changed. Either eliminate the local police or change the Budget Code because there is a problem. And I don't know a civilized country where there's no municipal police, which actually makes sure that cars are standing in places that are specifically set aside for this, so that order in the streets, not breaking the law, and the order in the street is that children have the opportunity to cross the road to school and from school home when it's next to it and so on. That is, normal functions that belong to local officials, local militias. But this isn't the problem. The problem is why won't the Party of Regions vote in favour of this bill? And not even because the author of this bill is a representative of the opposition, but for a simple reason, first of all, he doesn't want to, because we really need to divide the portfolios, the places to assign, the analysis of how the predecessors worked. I don't think the approach is what you've done to win the Party of Regions, but the approach is simple, what you're going to do now for the active authority, whether you're willing to put your eyes to work, whether you're willing to use the militia not as a law enforcement agency, but as a means of pressure and repression. That's the position, you'd be better off, you'd actually learn that, because an example of one reprisal is called. And here I'm told about a five-year term, you mean the year Janukovic was president? That five - year term, that was when he appointed a representative of an active coalition, in fact, he then appointed Tsushka as the minister of internal affairs, a broad profile specialist. The Ministry of Internal Affairs -- no questions, the Ministry of Economics -- no questions, the Ministry of Health -- no questions, the Ministry of Social Affairs -- is still being proposed. Therefore, the approach is unique: I have only experts, which only raises the question, I apologize. So, please work on another, you as the authorities propose new laws, we have the Police Act of the 1980s, the Operational Search Act of the 63rd year, as many years as I am of this law. So you work here and you share the portfolios and what they carry in different offices is still there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u166	Paul Zebravsky, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Jaroslav Suhi will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, this is basically called "the fool". Because if they were made in 2005 for layoffs and so on, they were made without a doubt. But today, don't make excuses for what you did when you were stupid, because it's the same stupid thing that makes us do it doesn't work. In fact, we need to do different kinds of things and blame each other, and the meaning of all of this, we're going to have to fill up the dirt of the present, the past, and it's going to happen again in a while, and there's no way out of this. We just need to stop, as they say, “Stop, be people, for we are going to be in trouble! ” Regarding the law offered by our colleague Moskal Hennaday Hennadiovich. I remember when you adopted the Municipal Police Act and then Kolada Petr Vasilovich, including from the Ministry of the Interior, supported it. He was my supervisor, he was the head of the investigative department, I was the investigator then, I say: "Petro Vasilovich, say this in order to get additional funding to the police? Yes, it is in order to exterminate additional funding for the police.” Indeed, there were no such serious powers and real things for the functioning of the municipal police. What Moskal is trying to do with his bill today is, first of all, municipalities that can finance and can't finance are subsidies. And because of that, in principle, those who can finance it, they have that militia, and those who can't, today the streets are naked, so let's say, no business, and so on. And because of this settlement, because the budget cannot fully satisfy the local functioning of the municipal police throughout Ukraine, for the sake of regulation and uniformity, let's say, the functioning of the militia and the proposed bill. It is said that 800 million are needed from the state budget, money, to carry out these powers can certainly be done. But what we're saying is that the state budget is not just a state budget, but there's still a budget, and in the form of a subsidy, the government budget gives local governments self-government. And actually, including the Ministry of Finance can set aside, and it's the amount that's going to be allocated to the municipal militia that can reduce subsidies to local governments and redistribute them through the state budget. And then there's money in the government budget. Once again, this is not a political issue. It's an attempt to regulate the militia's wakes and the functioning of the militia throughout Ukraine within the same limits and to put the load on the same unit, on one PPS is the same for everyone in Makiivka, in my Ruzhina. Thank you for your attention. Please support this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u168	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u169	Dear colleagues! I would like to support the tone of the speech of former officer of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Pavel Zebrowski. And I want to thank Hennady Moskal for this bill, because he's given the opportunity to join in on an extremely complex subject. I'm sorry, but the no-political tone of our conversation here was introduced by a committee member, even the head of a subcommittee, who is also a former officer in stock today. People! But if we continue to discuss legislation that has a social orientation and a focus on increasing the prestige of this profession, there will be nothing good. But how long can you see how much you can remind someone? Someone sent letters, someone was once offended -- let's go back after the Orange events that were done to people and who boasted that 20,000 government officials were on the street and so on. Let's say, however, what we can now offer to society. Dear colleagues, this is about the need for immediate reform of the social protection system of our law enforcement agencies. What should we be talking about? First. Wage, I didn't happen to call my salary when I was a young lieutenant officer, by the way, dear friend, I came into the internal army and I was paid 260 Soviet carbs. How much does a young lieutenant today get for that money? How much does his boss get? Second question, housing. I have approached the Minister of Internal Affairs of Lucenka on several occasions with proposals for the city of Zaporozhye, and there have been many examples when former hostels could be transferred to small families at least for the post office. No step taken! Next, job security for family members. Folks, don't we have something to talk about right now in the plan that was raised here by your esteemed colleague, Hennady Moskal? Indeed, municipal police have the right to exist. And I guess I do. If it is financed from the local budget in Zaporozhye, if it is financed from the local budget in Donetsk and Dnipropetrovsk, please let it be financed. They're normally provided with material and technology, by the way, they're normally provided with housing issues, please leave it as it was. So this bill has to be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u170	Valerius Beales, Communist faction. Paul Sulkowski will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u171	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say that in 30 years in the police force, I've been through more than one reform. And the tragedy is that none of them were implemented to the end. Although several serious concepts of reforming the law enforcement system in general were being prepared. What's more, it's already called by the Supreme Council, our profile committee's been working on this problem, but that's how we didn't finish the problem. Why am I talking about reforms? The problem is that it's not that either 32,000 units are going to be converted from the local budget to the state budget. The problem is quite different. Is there a need for the Ministry of Internal Affairs today for one in six administrators? Is it necessary today in the Ministry of Internal Affairs system that every 9 rides a car and a driver a worker? We don’t know the territory at all today, because he definitely needs a car. He flies by those grandmothers, near those huts that we have in the village today, in a car that flies all the way back. The thing is, we've overloaded the Ministry of Internal Affairs' system with technology, and at the same time, people, the special composition of their professional level has been completely forgotten. That's where the main problem is today. As far as material, technical and financial security is concerned. In 1967, Mikola Anisovich Czalokov, Minister of Internal Affairs of the Soviet Union of the Soviet Union, held the first Allied Council of Directors of Internal Affairs. There he said the sacramental phrase: “The hungry and impoverished police are dangerous to society. ” And it is clear that from these points of view we should remember that too. But when the question arises, how much does the Ministry of Internal Affairs have to eat in order to properly provide for the special storage and the maintenance of money, and so on, and so on, and so on, and so on, no one will tell us today. Because we have 324,000 people in our system. It's an extremely powerful system. But once again, when we do return, how many people do we have specifically in the task of fighting crime or prevention, then we're going to have a fifthy-fixy in English, 50 by 50, half is in control, and half is just fighting crime. Here is a problem that we should solve. With regard to a specific bill proposed by venerated Hennadi Hennadiovich Moskal. Clearly, the problem must be solved. But the problem is probably not that kind of key. It is simply necessary to make adjustments to the budget code. Because I have to refer to a colleague of the Dry One, he said it right. The thing is, we only have 10 percent of our budgets today to support municipal militias, all the rest are grants.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u172	Yes, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u173	And today we have 90 percent of our local budgets are unable to support municipal police. It is therefore necessary to make appropriate changes to the budget code and to allow those municipalities that are capable of supporting the police to maintain them. Where not, transfer to the state budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u174	Paul Sulkowski, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u175	Thank you. Paul Sulkowski, Plaintish. I think that today the national MPs and the previous speakers have already expressed their view that this project is now practical. This is a question that really needs to be resolved, but not by the project that we're looking at today. And why? Well, first of all, really, President Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic of Ukraine today requires that the law enforcement authorities first of all bring order to the state. And responsibility will be a few times more clear than the five years before under the leadership of the orange politicians, who have really led to such a problem not only by the police, but by the whole of Ukraine. Don't throw away all your troubles and troubles. And today, unfortunately, and who was the deputy minister of internal affairs, and the national deputy, and today reports on this project, which says that they are now assigning to all the structures in charge of those who have been searched for by Interpol and so on. So I have a very simple question. Please tell the police, who, for five years under the leadership of Viktor Andriyovich Yushchenka and Julia Timoshenko, led the example of Boris Kolesnikov. Tell me, if Boris Kolesnikov had gone to another country of the world, he would have clearly not been tortured here, and not closed up, and would not have been kept in prison for a long time. We were all eyewitnesses. And if he had left, he would, indeed, also have been through Interpol in search of him, but he did not leave as a Ukrainian, as a patriot of Ukraine, he endured that injustice, that lie all along. And when Boris Kolesnikov acquitted him today and the court acquitted him, why such militias who are now in opposition defend this structure, do not even go out and apologize for such behavior. So I think, let's not waste time today, local self-government agencies are doing everything they can to help the police, finance large funds, not to set aside other problems, and to keep the district inspectors out. And that's why I think that the new government, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, will continue to fully provide and create the right conditions for the employees of this structure, and really everything will be okay. And we have to wait from.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u176	Yuri Baldiriev, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u177	The idea of municipal police is a sound idea. And if Americans do, it's called sheriffs, that is, they're close to the people, they know their needs and needs, but the municipal police should also be financed from municipal budgets, not the proposed scheme, when local authorities hire them, and then translate their contents into the public budget. I mean, it's a beautiful idea in itself, but the performance, as always: we wanted it as good as ever. That is why the bill must be ruled out, but the very idea is to implement in another bill that we are prepared to work with the author of the current bill. A new bill, a municipal police funded by the municipal budget, to allow each person to stretch his/her legs, in accordance with his/her capacity to plan law enforcement activities in his/her region. We, the Party of the Regions, support this idea. But, of course, in a healthy way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u178	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u179	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear National Deputies! What question is being considered today? I will remind you that the Law on the General Structure and Number of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine is being amended. This is the question that is being considered. Next came the politicization and everything. By the way, about what my colleague, the head of the committee's report, I want those who didn't believe that this kind of panic was sown by the government to address Vice Prime Minister Tihypak's letter of 16 March 2010, please write down number 12390/0-1-10. Instead of shouting, they would write and read. So, I'd like all those who listen to us today to the citizens of Ukraine and to those who carry the chases both in the police and in the Ukrainian Armed Forces, in the Security Service, to say, Your Honor, you're separated from politics. Politics should not affect you. In other words, those words, which unfortunately today speak in many of the areas spoken by my colleague Pavlovsky, I immediately heard just the quote that I have heard several times a day every day. When released, they say, write a report at your own request. He says, “What did you do for the Party of the Regions?” So, well, I'd like you and I to come to the conclusion right now that we have to stop breaking the Constitution. Sooner or later, we need to stop the circle. Well, for justice's sake, I have the right to say that because I haven't been, and you know, for two years Janukovitch was Prime Minister, but together with the fact that I was convicted of Kolesnik, the Nevi, Mr. Sulkovsky, and I, Yuri Karmazin, went on air and said that I had studied the materials, he was sitting illegally. And with regard to assignments, I want to tell you that you were assigned to the area, in Ravensky, where the materials were suddenly missing in the Attorney General's Office for about a million dollars, all in all. Now for the specifics. That's what I'm talking about for assignments, and you're asking, please. Now it's about how to accept this law. The law has to be adopted, it's non-political and it's totally non-political, it has to be accepted. The only question is: Should we leave the local police in article 1? Now I've been convinced that it's obviously necessary to clean up, because obviously it's not the time today, but we need to change both the Police Act and the Budget Code at the same time. Therefore, we need to base and make changes to those laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u180	After the end. Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u181	Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished colleagues, the absolute rights of Gennady Gennadyevich Moskal. Two years after the prime minister appointed Yulia Timoshenko, Gennadi Gennadievich wrote the bill. Two and a half years was not what they did not accept, nor was a person released on the rostrum. If God were to save her, if God were still alive, but God was on the universe, he would see, yes, if they had kept her for two or three years, they wouldn't have put her on the rostrum with this bill. It's a disgrace. And just because power changed, we immediately saw the problem, and Gennady Gennadyevich reported to the rostrum. Now for the change of personnel. You know, but the resurgences of the 37th year, which were reanimated in 2005 in Ukraine, will never, ever be. It's only then that people didn't come to the rally with that tape, like brooms, 30,000 decent, professionally trained people from all the structures, including the Ministry of Internal Affairs. This is today the task of retaining professional staff and restoring professionals who remain behind the Ministry of the Interior. This is the key task. We must make the police respectable in the people, professionally, so that people can respect them, love them. This will also make it possible for professional staff to be staffed, but professionals will be retained. And, of course, no one will hold the person who, during the election, took part in the political prescribing, working in a force structure against his political opponents. They don't belong in power structures. Well, it's about depoliticization. The kind of marasm that was under the orange power, you might think, in no country in the world, was it when people with guns were divided by forces on both sides of the barricade. An army with guns near Yushchenko, and a militia with guns near Timoshenko Premiere, and guns at each other! What country of the world could that have been?Oh, my God! We're not going to have that now. The police will not serve, the BSS will not serve, the Ministry will not serve the President or the Prime Minister or politicians, they will serve the people of Ukraine and the State, they will stand together, on the one hand, to protect the interests of Ukraine and the State and the Ukrainian people. That's what's gonna happen. Well, thanks to Gennady Gennadyevich, of course, for raising the problem. Thank you, we thank him. I think that the leadership of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, where professionals have come to power, will pass a system-wide bill on this issue, and we will accept it. Which would raise both the Ministry's status and respect and the Ministry's ratings to make the ministry even more respectable, loved and people felt protected, that it was indeed.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u182	A reply after a discussion has been completed. Well, I told you. Wait, please. Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. Well, wait! Hennaday Hennadiovich, closing. None. Please, head of the committee. Microphone. Out of the way, please, if you don't mind. Yuri Volodymyrovich, out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u183	Dear colleagues, I'd like to remind you once again that there's a radio on the armored train. This is for those who want to, at least look at the date, see when he was introduced to the committee. And two years ago, on July 10, 2008, the committee had already concluded. Why is it only now in the agenda? But because you're on the Conciliation Council, Your Honor, you've blocked all the questions like this. And now you're saying that Hennaday Hennadiovich is here. What's more, I don't want to politicize this problem again. This is precisely the case, first of all, with police officers, level officers who work directly in villages, villages and small district centres, and small towns. And there is absolutely no need to politicize the matter. That's right, but I'm sorry to break up some dividends and say here: these are the dividends and these are the dividends. Let's take all the questions together and show how we are really going to experience people in the heathens, including taking off all the curves on those letters that are being sent today, demoralizing the Armed Forces, the Border Service, the Ukrainian Security Service, the Prosecutor's Office, all the other power tools, well, and the IMF, including, of course. So I urge you not to drag this process away, because once again we get to the budget, it's going to be forgotten. Because I agree with my colleague, General Beales and the National MP respectively, man is wise and knows what he's saying and more, he has experience too, let's not delay it for long. Because it's back to every decision -- people's fates and, by the way, their families -- let's not set up a force structure against ourselves. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u184	Thank you. Vorona Dmitry Mikolaiovich. Is there a representative? None. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, he said, let's finish the question, then. We've been talking to you. Dear colleagues, the bill has been concluded. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. I am voting on the proposal for a committee to adopt on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the General Structure and Number of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, registration number 1383. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:56:52]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. I'm traditionally voting on a second proposal, a bill, registration number 1383, for a re-read. Please identify yourself. [[13:57:19]] For 134 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Paul Sulkowski, please, a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u185	Thank you. I want to tell Yuri Carmazin about the level of the Head of the Navy. Mr. Yuri, I haven't met my new boss. I don't know him. But I want to tell you that when I get to know you, it's definitely me, and I'm going to ask you this question, whether he says it or not. But what I want to tell you is, thank God, the level of leadership in the U.M.S. in the last few years, has been a lucky one. I think maybe he'll drive, God will give, and with that. But what I want to say is that in 2006, Mr. Jury, Sergey Podubny, Major General, Head of the University of Vilnius, when President Yushchenko drew the internal forces to the capital in 2006, this General Podubnik stopped the Lviv and Volin internal forces and did not direct his equal forces. He carried out the order of the minister of the interior. And I believe that this is going to stand up for this state's position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-31-m0.u186	Dear National Deputies! There's no replicating, unfortunately, Yuri Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. At 15 o'clock, the committee meeting. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., we'll continue our plenary work.
