ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:23]] The 243 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Honorary colleagues, on May 10, 2010, came out of the life of the Socialist Hero, the Ukrainian Academy of Sciences and the Academy of Medical Sciences, the Russian Academy of Sciences, the European Association, the German Academy of Science, the Czechoslovak Academy of Sciences, the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, the German Academy of Science and Technology, the National Academy of Sciences, the National Academy of Science and Technology, the National Academy of Sciences, the National Academy of Science and Technology, the National Academy of Science and Technology, the National Council of the Ninth, the tenth, the Eleventh and the Supreme Council of the Soviet Union, and the Head of the Supreme Council of the Soviet Union. Please honor his memory with a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Please sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, please listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 61 of the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and in accordance with personal signatures, I report the entry of Ukrainian national deputies: Demčin Vasil Vasilovic, Muz Oresta Pavlović, Romanyuk Mikoli Prokopowich, Tsurka Petra Ivanovich, Gusarov Sergija Mikolaiovich, Vassutin Sergija Ivanovich, Jegorova Aleksandra Mikolaiovich, Stolora Vadim Mihajlovich, Kovalevska Yulia Sergijivni, Kasyanjuka Alexandra Rostislavovich, Zubanova Vladimir Alexanderovich, to the coalition of the parliamentary faction “Stability and Reforms” in the Supreme Council of the Sixth Council of Ukraine. And in accordance with article 61 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputies into the coalition of the parliamentary faction “Stability and Reform” in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call of Budgerak Alexander Alexander Aleksandrovič, Hayman Oleg Eisiković, Kamchatny Valery Grigorovič, Konstantinov Eugen Semenović, Kruk Jurija Borisovich. Now one more announcement. [[Applause]] In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” and article 59 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I report the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputy, Fomin Alexandr Viktorovich, into the MP’s “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear National Deputies! According to article 25 of the Rules on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes for statements by authorized factions with proposals, statements, messages, and so on. At the same time, I inform you, in the process of recording your statement that we have decided at the Conciliation Council that we will bring to the attention of the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the hearing of information from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the course of negotiations between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on the preparation of inter-State agreements, which are scheduled to be signed on 17 May 2010. You and I agreed that as soon as we start the session, we would vote on this draft decision. But since there are not all deputies yet, let's do the factions first, and let's define the draft of this decision. Is there no objection? None. Yes, please sign up for the performance. It was written down by Dutch Boris Davidovich. Who will speak from the faction? Dutch Boris Davidovich, please. Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich will then perform. Zarubinsky. Please log in. Kirilenko. And Martinenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u2	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! All of us are with you today, unfortunately, watching a performance called “Karal: Moscal go!” Perhaps for the inhabitants of Lviv or Ternopol, the lies of the opposition about the surrender of Crimea seem convincing. To ordinary Ukrainians who believe in the word of opposition, there is no home that the multinational, tolerant Crimea has never initiated anti-State, anti-Ukrainian initiatives in the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, and in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Crimean deputies are represented by communists, regionals, bullies, Ukrainians, as opposed to the one-sided party membership of Western deputies. Besides, Crimea deputies are people of different nationalities: Ukrainians, Russians, Tatars, Jews. That the Crimea has the most modern library called Ivan Franco, the best Ukrainian high school in our country. And I'll see that this is done by decision of the Crimean authorities and the Crimean money. So the talk of the Crimea is about people who don't know the real situation in the Crimea. Why, then, is this hysterical cry about the lost Crimea raised? The answer lies on the surface: understanding the absurdity and lies of their allegations, the leaders of the opposition have put them in public opinion to arouse people's discontent and lead them to the streets. Would it seem terrible to criticize decisions taken by the authorities and to seek the support of their attitude towards the people? Perhaps it would be all right if the words “war” were not used more and more frequently in the statements of the opposition. For some it is a continuation of the imperative idea of fighting all Russian, for others it is a continuation of the struggle for power. I don't believe in their warlord. And that's when a nationalist MP who actively advocates a nationalist idea throws in my back the phrase "you're going to bleed again," I believe for a hundred years. I believe that these lords have heroes who have cruelly destroyed tens of thousands of civilians of “improper” nationalities for the sake of this idea, without forgetting Ukrainians who do not agree with their ideas. And I believe they're going to want to fill out the list of these heroes without looking back. To demonstrate that it is not just my fears, but the feelings of distress in society that have developed, I want to say to the poets of Lena Kostenko – the conscience of the Ukrainian nation: “All against everyone, everyone disagrees, anger moves people, but on the side of the abyss.” When opposition leaders, in their desire to return parliamentary mandates and power cabinets, are calling people to the streets, they are unaware of the hardship that their actions may cause to the country and its people. In the streets and in the barricades, blood began to flow in our hall. But even if she's out of her nose, she's not a politician's ambition, and the main thing is to keep her last. I understand all the futility of calling on the leaders of the opposition to stop. Because it is they who are pushing the people to oppose. I therefore appeal to the prudentest members at all levels and to the regular electorates. Remember! There is one thing that unites you and us, even with differences and contradictions, is that our family is Ukraine. And the future of our country, the future of our Ukraine, will depend on how we jointly define its agenda for further development! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u3	Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich, faction of the Communist Party. Oleg Zarubinsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! 9 May the entire people of Ukraine celebrated the 65th anniversary of the liberation of our people and the victory in the Great Homeland War. And as you've seen, the faces have enlightened our veterans. The people were sincerely pleased because, in our deep conviction, a real liberation from the orange occupation of Ukraine had begun, and this was perceived positively by our people. But certainly this positive process needs to be strengthened by those concrete steps in the economy in order for us to have real opportunities with you to deal with all the social problems that today require time. People are waiting for us to take practical steps. And we, the participants in these celebrations, have witnessed that all the treatments of the various categories of our citizens have been directed towards the hope that the coalition established in Parliament and which began the process of exemption from the orange occupation can address the issues of overcoming the growth of unemployment, the repayment of wages, the monitoring of pay levels, the elimination of unfair pension imbalances, price control, including medicines, as well as many others. Today, we must focus primarily on the fact that the income part of the budget actually fills the major issues and, above all, the financing of social standards defined by the laws and the State Budget Act. [[I am convinced that the members of the coalition will support the Company's proposal]] It is also a tax on profits, value added tax, and excise duties, which means that we have to regulate the issues that still need to be addressed. This is, of course, the strengthening of tax administration, the elimination of tax pits and the minimization of taxation. Dear colleagues! We really need to understand with you that in the first quarter there is a 9.3 per cent lower tax than last year. The shadow economy has yet to see the real sector of the economy, and certainly, if we are talking about tax evasion, the issue of the abolition of value added tax needs to be decided today. I am convinced that we should continue to help you to strengthen the control of the State over customs processes and to inform you, comrades, that in April, through the strengthening of the work of the Customs Committee, we have more revenue and fees than tax revenues from real economic activities. That is, 8.5 billion from customs fees and only 7.1 billion from tax revenues. I believe that we must be seriously involved today in examining the process, especially the order and motivation of the fund, the Ukrainian Pension Fund, in order to address the budget deficit of 29 billion. This is, of course, a decision to make, a law to ensure that interest rates of credit are 3 per cent from the National Bank, 5 from commercial banks, as we have already proposed. To identify a list of strategic enterprises that will have support. In order to maintain order in the Pension Fund, we must today strengthen, in our view, the monitoring of wages and the timeliness of its accrual. Today, too, the question of the restoration of our State's gold stock is called for. Because in the last five years, it's nearly doubled, this gold stock. Today, we must also unlock the problems of VAT return. You know that many enterprises today, especially strategic budget enterprises that are filling today, are suffering from not receiving VAT returns as a negotiable means of business. I believe that we must end today and the negative trend of rising wages debts. Nearly 1.4 billion today are in arrears. Today and a new impetus is needed for the cooperation of the CIS countries and for the dynamic development of production and cooperation. We propose to continue what is now in place in the context of the problems of the military industrial complex, aviation and space. Use Ukraine's natural transport corridor for the purposes of Ukraine. Once again, we need to improve the efficiency of the management of the individual today, as well as to diversify external lending, not only to address the issue and the issue of IMF credit, but above all to engage in a constructive dialogue on borrowing Russia, China, as well as other States. The faction of the Company is counting on mutual understanding, on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u5	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u6	to support these proposals, and requests the coalition to support effectively the voting of these projects so that we can begin to address specific problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u7	Oleg Zarubinsky, Lithuanian Block faction. John Kirilenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u8	Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! To pretend that nothing special happened in the previous plenary session of the Ukrainian Parliament, is unacceptable, unacceptable and more dangerous. We can't, not from the point of view of the Criminal Code, not from the point of view of basic common sense, we can't, morally speaking, because we have to make sure that the state doesn't have an entrenched immoral pattern: that when it has the power to give up a country, that it's to give up a little bit, that it's to put the economy at risk from machine-building and to agricultural enterprises to economic non-competitiveness, and that it's to back off from all economic neighbours. After losing power, the same nation began to save. As French writer de Stahl aptly said: “Woe to the country that is being saved every day.” A long time ago, it was time to protect the country from the likes of rescue workers. We cannot go past what happened here before May Day and because it is dangerous. Because when MPs are used as Cossacks for half-criminal and criminal activities, and directors and organizers are obviously following some of the warnings from the Kremlin, washing their hands, pretending to do nothing, while other people's hands are resorting to malicious bullying and outright vandalism, it's dangerous. Not safe for directors and organizers, their billions exported abroad during so - called commercial activities, is enough to get out of the water. It's not safe for society, because a society for which constant conflicts are caused by politicians to solve or prevent their personal problems becomes a common phenomenon, a society that is actually only weakening, only degrades. Because conflict is poverty, conflict is joblessness, conflict is economic recession and political instability. And who would benefit from that? Normal and normal people -- no, people -- no, no, no, no, no, no. Who can benefit from provoking ongoing conflicts? For whom it is a normal and principal form of activity and primarily political activity. But the people for whom stability, foresight, peaceful progress in the first place, such people are incomparably more, in the people and in politics, the left side. And it is for them to work out those for whom adventure and aphorism are strangers, who are tired of primitive populism, who realize that the main mission of statesmen is to give everyone a real chance, to support the desire to become rich and rich. That is why aggression must finally be replaced by work, the country must work, not “fight in convulsions” born by the destroyers. The position of the Lithuanian Block has already been expressed from this rostrum, I'll stress again. The political conflict, and in fact political personal interest, must now more than ever be replaced by the competition of economic programs. After all, the realization of personal ambitions and personal interests by balancing Parliament’s work, by inciting violent conflicts, is too expensive a price for a country, for those for whom patriotism is not the last refuge for the villains, but it is daily work and real affairs in the name and for the benefit of the country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u9	Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, dear voters! For days, the entire Ukrainian people, the world community, celebrated the 65th anniversary of the Great Victory over Fascism, in a war that brought the greatest misery, ruin, and human loss to the Ukrainian land. But our Fatherland stood firm and reborn, and this was primarily because of those who doubtless gave their lives for the bright future. So again and again, we bow low before you, the venerable veterans, for the feat you performed for the Fatherland. Today, for most of our fellow countrymen, thousands of whom are now under the walls of Parliament, Ukraine is a FATHER. And in that word, every letter is great, because it's his destiny, his heart and his soul, it's the graves of his ancestors, and it's a tragic story. And they're very hard to understand and bear what for some people in Ukraine is still just a territory that you can do anything with by solving some of your questions. How bitter to admit it, but a proud, sovereign country has yet to be built and not a single generation of Ukrainians, and the main thing is to learn and learn true patriotism. That is why the National Committee for the Protection of Ukraine was established in Ukraine with the participation of many parties. And our faction fully supports its first demand for power: to immediately listen to the government about future new agreements with Russia that will be signed next week. International agreements are a normal modern world practice. But in every civilized country, this is done in public, in public and in public. Society, society, and society need to know that what and what conditions will be decided on, whether by aviation or by shipbuilding or by energy. In doing so, we make it clear that we are not against Russia and the development of cooperation with Russia, we are in favor of Ukrainian interest. The information that came from individual groups of television channels last week showed that there is a problem with public communication in the new government. Gradually, there is a dangerous gap between power and society, and a powerful wall is being built behind it. And let's say, as of yesterday, Julius Timoshenko was blamed for his over publicity and, even, populism. But is it not because of this, namely, dialogue with people, economics, trade unions, social organizations, the country has solved problems, and there has been no social upheaval under incredible conditions. Remember, over the past two years, were there mining riots, massive acts of insubordination of budgeters, pensioners, workers, or peasants? Oh, no. You really got a peaceful country, which for the first time in independence has survived the most powerful crisis, but has survived and begun to regenerate. During Timoshenko’s premiere, a number of major public actions were taken, not to be released, but to be discussed, and concerted decisions were taken that did not harm other sectors, spheres, and national interests. Consider the negotiations with the IMF conducted by Julia Timoshenko. Despite the harshest demands, she did not make any concessions. Not to increase the retirement age, not to cut social benefits, not to cut pensions, not to cut salaries for the budget, not to reduce the benefits for vulnerable categories, not to eliminate the support of the village, but to get the loans in full and on time. Unfortunately, you don't have it yet. You quickly accepted Russia's offer and gave up almost without fighting the IMF. You're holding on to a trust loan, but it's a very nosy horse. After the election, you wanted to go largely to areas that did not support you. Let's go make sure you're better. It didn't happen. Instead, it builds a vertical where unfortunately there is no room for dialogue. That is why the student strike begins in Lviv today. We need a dialogue. You've promised people great benefits. Are they in the budget? On the contrary. You're talking about tightening your seatbelts. Who?Oh, my God! They've already arranged everything with their unions. What about people? Does fresh foreign experience teach anything? People today will not go to fed unions. And you colleagues have done everything you can to clone your opponents today. Indeed, there may be a lot of opposition, but there is peace in Ukraine. Could there be such a peace with such a budget? Or with such agreements? Or with this kind of tax policy? Tax innovation is a separate topic. Your team hasn't come up with anything. And two more years ago, we offered complex systems. And if it hadn't been for your negative position, they'd have made those decisions a long time ago, won and forgotten. You were successful at that time, and you're trying to do what you're trying to do on your own. The Constitutional Court was also approached. Now what? Now you're going to hit the same rakes again. Only now must we take responsibility and explain ourselves to others. They came to us today. These are our people with you. They heard us. It's your turn. We have to go to the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u11	Mikola Volodymyrovich Martinenko, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u12	Dear fellow citizens! Dear colleagues! On April 27, the authorities announced the ratification of the so - called Kharkiv treaties between Presidents Yanukovic and Medvedev. In conflict with the Constitution, Ukrainian territory is provided for the deployment of a foreign military base for tens of years. The faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" has done everything to prevent national interests and other violations of the Constitution. It was our sector that was attacked by the overwhelming coalition forces. With the help of her fists, she cleaned up places to vote on carcases. Among the opposition deputies, only members of our faction suffered. And when we make accusations about the behaviour of April 27th and the broken furniture, let's think about our colleagues who are still in the hospital. There's no one to talk about it. For Ukraine, the long - term consequences of the Kharkiv covenants are generally negative. However, a fast and dangerous impact on the state of the Ukrainian economy and the well-being of citizens can be the result of a brilliantly accepted 2010 budget. It was difficult to expect anything else from a document that was prepared in a transparent and culinary manner, adopted with violations of legislation and regulations, without consideration in parliamentary committees and in sessional halls. Democracy is a procedure. It's broken here. While there is a procedure for the majority not to impose their will on the minority. So that we can work together to find the best solutions. Ten minutes to get hold of the State Budget, that's what's going on in the Guinness Record Book. This was not even the case in Soviet times. This budget does not even smell of reform. Unfulfilled pre-election promises to raise social standards. Instead, officials will be able to redistribute tens of billions as they please. The Cabin is also going to increase its external debt enormously. That's where the space for unprecedented corruption is. Even a peer review of the document shows that it is a world record in providing government with unprecedented opportunities for manual budget management. Analysts counted at least 5 seats in the project, which provides for the priority of Kabmin’s decisions over the law. The State Budget Act will allow you to ignore it. The government will be able to change the range of government debt, income and expenditure on its own. We remember well what ended up being ignored by border parameters and experiments in 1986 at the Chernobyl AES. Do we now want financial Chernobyl in Ukraine? I think it's necessary to review this budget as quickly as possible, and I think it's in the hands of a manual administration that agrees with the whole procedure. First of all, we need to clean up all the laziness that allows manual budget management and opens up opportunities for corruption. Secondly, change the existing ratios, with 80 percent of the funds being distributed through the central budget and only 20 through the local budget. Thirdly, to reduce the real budget deficit, not drawn for the IMF uncle, about 57 billion dollars, but the real 160 billion dollars, because the soapy bride of the distributed income part is going to crack sooner or later. Fourthly, it's not possible to wash off the company's circulation costs by delaying the tax return to the added value for up to 5 years. Fifthly, to eliminate the economically unjustified peroxide to separate sectors of the economy. Sixthly, lower hypertrophy costs to central authorities and, in particular, increase the funding of the Armed Forces. These are just the main points, but they also give a powerful indication that this budget needs to be reviewed in an urgent way, with economic thinking in mind. Such a professional approach will allow the budget process to be depoliticized and more efficient. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, the speeches are over. With regard to the proposals made in the statements made by the National Deputies, I ask the Secretariat to prepare appropriate assignments. At the Conciliation Council meeting today, we agreed, more precisely, on the question that we should meet with faction leaders and analyse what was going on in the Supreme Council of Ukraine to make the right conclusions and assessments for the future. The same is true of fellow citizens, and I don't say any more about the moral and physical damage that was done to the people's deputies, but in terms of material damage, it goes beyond 900,000 dollars. And I would ask those who did so voluntarily to reimburse these costs. In one way or another, they will be compensated for these costs not at the expense of the State. I'm still, dear colleagues, I think it's necessary to say that the conflict doesn't work. Let us find common ground in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let's move on. I'm asking you to calm down. We have agreed that we will accept with you, your honorary colleagues, a draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to listen to information from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the course of negotiations between Ukraine and the Russian Federation regarding the preparation of inter-State agreements, which are scheduled to be signed on May 17th. The Supreme Council of Ukraine decides to hear at a plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 12 May 2010 information from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the progress of the negotiations between Ukraine and the Russian Federation regarding the preparation of inter-State agreements, which are scheduled to be signed on 17 May 2010. Please, one minute from the factions. Please, Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u14	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Vladimir Mikhailovich, after the Conciliation Board of Faction Managers, Mikola Tomenk and I made those decisions that were made with argument, with suggestions, with all the things that you've already announced. The faction requests a 16 - hour vote today. That's our offer. Second offer tomorrow. We ask you to vote on two proposals: our first, please. For 16 years. That's what the faction asked. I'm just asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u15	Thank you. Please, Irina Heratchenko, the faction “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u16	Dear Mr. Speaker, you've just paid a lot of attention to the furniture again, and from our faction we're asking you to officially inquire about the health of our colleagues who are in the hospital right now, who have been brutally beaten in this room, we've beaten our own for a foreign fleet. And I think it would be appropriate for you as a speaker to be interested in the health of your colleagues. And the second question is procedure. We find ourselves in a room while a foreigner with an umbrella is in the cabinet. We want to find out from our faction who this is, why this man is armed. Does this mean that we are not just hiding from people as a powerful coalition, but you are already afraid of your colleagues? And please give us a report before Parliament starts on who's standing with an umbrella with a gun in the government's bed. It's not Azarov, it's not Kluev, it's not the Prime Minister, it's not the Deputy Prime Minister. Who is this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, I'd like the secretariat to find out who's standing right now. And I'd like to find out who's taking the smoke checkers to the session room. And then show principle. Please, from the Communist faction. Let's calm down! Do not do what you do, and be, at least, not only deputies but also women. Calm down! Please, the Communist faction, who will act?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u18	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, when we consider this proposal, I would like to draw your attention to what today should be prevented because we are creating a case law. And without addressing the issues that will be discussed in time during this bilateral meeting, we will be creating first-hand certain threats to making the right decisions. So the faction of the Company proposes to do the following. First of all, we must fulfil our constitutional obligation: to adopt the Basic Principles of Internal and External Policy Act, which will be the basis for the fulfilment of constitutional obligations by all nationals of Ukraine. Second, finish listening to information without discussion. And I propose, Vladimir Mikhailovich, here today to vote on this issue, taking into account what the Rules provide, but to vote, so that tomorrow there will be no further noise in relation to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u19	Thank you. The Communist faction, Alexander Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u20	Faction Party of the Regions, Aleksandr Efraemov. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Today at the Conciliation Council, we have reached agreement in your cabinet that tomorrow, on an exceptional basis, I stress, on an exceptional basis, because the Rules do not provide for such a procedure, and our faction will support the vote on this issue, to hear the Government's information on the ongoing negotiations on the signing of treaties with the Russian Federation. At the same time, I would like to emphasize that, distinguished colleagues, you have the opportunity to form an order of the day on Wednesday and you have the opportunity to listen to the members of the Government on Friday. So today, we would ask you not to abuse it. Well, you know, I can't help but notice that it's particularly cynical when provocative things come out of a woman's mouth. Let us not provoke one another into various oppositions. If we hadn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u21	Please finish at the request of the National Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u22	If we hadn't shut down what was provoked on that day by the opposition, I think the results would have been much worse. Therefore, we would ask our colleagues: sometimes, indeed, it is difficult to stand on various political issues, but in such opposition we continue to stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u23	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u24	Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! First there's a little line. A respected colleague here spoke of her injured fellow factions. And, you know, I'd like to say that if principle is partial and selective, it's already a conjuncture, not a principle. We had to stop those who were here trying to destroy their colleagues with suffocable gas. Then it would be. You'd have the right to say something else then. As for tomorrow, I emphasize, tomorrow's debate, the Lithuanian Block Group insists and believes that all things must be introduced, regardless of the conflicts that have been caused in the Supreme Council, into the river of the legislative base, particularly in the area of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, in the river of the Constitution. Tomorrow we should consider this question. But all of this must continue to be, in fact, to have a perfectly proven normal norm. Then those who provoke conflict will not be able to have a basis for doing so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. The only thing I want to inform the National MP is that every morning the information comes from medical institutions where people's deputies are being treated. One minute, calm down. And I'm having a conversation with the head doctor about who's on the job and what's on the job. Because I thank you. Dear colleagues, calm down! Thank you for the reminder. I also offer you the words of the Holy Book: “Brother, I offer you whether I wish to agree.” Let's work quietly. All of it. And don't provoke conflict. Dear colleagues, we agreed on a compromise at the Conciliation Council: move away from the Rules and vote in favour of a decision Wednesday for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to hear information from the government about the agreements that are scheduled to be signed on May 17th. I'll remind you again. In accordance with article 240 of the Rules, we must first ask written information. When we receive written information and are dissatisfied, then we will decide on the presence of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. So it was going on. We can't make it till Friday. We can't make it. A compromise was found, and the five factions agreed. I'm going to put this proposal to the vote, and I'm going to read it again. Draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on hearing information from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the course of negotiations between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on the preparation of inter-State agreements, which are scheduled to be signed on 17 May 2010. The Supreme Council of Ukraine decrees: to hear at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 12 May 2010 information from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the progress of the negotiations between Ukraine and the Russian Federation regarding the preparation of inter-State agreements, which are scheduled to be signed on 17 May 2010. This decision takes effect on the day of its adoption. I'm voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft regulation, please vote. [[10:41:50]] For 404 They put in a day-to-day draft order. I'm voting on a draft ruling and I'm asking you to vote. In general. [[B in m in s a l in]] We won't find a decision then, dear colleagues, I know what I'm talking about. Please, let's calm down. [[10:42:13]] For 399 Decision taken. I ask you to send a written message to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to identify the rapporteur, and we at the Conciliation Council have proposed that the head of the Interstate Ukrainian-Russian Commission be the reporter who is directly responsible for these issues. In order for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to receive written information by the end of the day, the deputies should get to know it, and tomorrow we will consider this issue directly in the process of communicating with the Cabinet of Ministers, namely: First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Klavov Andri Petrovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, once again, we had a hard time agreeing on a draft decision, otherwise we wouldn't have made it. For the reasons of the vote, please, George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u26	Yuri Carmazin. "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense," the Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'd like to ask you to give a protocol order now to the committees, to the heads of the committees, whose competence is to discuss tomorrow's problems. So now that they're out of work, they're going to the government, they're going to study all the documents, and they're going to have committee meetings by tomorrow, so that we can have some kind of closure. Because we already have this practice: we accept the budget -- no one gets in the way; we give the authority of the Supreme Council and it's only done in one read; we accept the changes to the Supreme Council Rules, the violation of the Supreme Council Rules Act and again in the first and second readings. Please have the committee heads prepare and then hold meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u27	Oleg Lazko, Alexander Efraemov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u28	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, you have repeatedly urged fellow MPs to act in accordance with the Rules, and I ask you to do the same. Every national MP has the right to submit his proposals to any legislative act that is under consideration in the Supreme Council, and even more so to the draft decree, which deals with information from the government about the reporting of treason treaties that are scheduled to be signed on May 17 in Kiev. So I had an offer, and I hope it will be taken into account tomorrow when we consider it fully. This is extremely important for the security of the country, for national sovereignty, for the national interests of Ukraine. And so to limit yourself to not reporting to the first vice-premier, but to the prime minister of Ukraine and to the ministers of profile. Because it's about giving up energy, so it's supposed to be on the stand of a minister of energy. It's about giving up the airline industry, it's about the minister of industry, other ministers, and the sectors that appear to be under the protectorate of Russia. This is a very important question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u29	Thank you. Alexander Efraemov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, Russia will use, not hearings coming from the Internet, but official information coming from the Cabinet of Ministers. It is in order to hear the official information that we have supported the initiative to hear this information in the hall tomorrow and to obtain objective data, not who will come up with something. Vladimir Mihajlovich, I support the proposal made by Petr Nikolaevich that information is heard without discussion. We need not a political vision, not a clown in the hall, but simply to get the knowledge that all people in our country know from one source. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u31	Thank you. Dear national deputies, regarding the proposal. Please, Peter Kravchenko, no questions asked. Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u32	Kravchenko, the Communist faction. I ask our opposition: Let us not make absurd the issues that do not fall within our competence. Soon we will come to Medvedev's duty or head of the Russian Administration to come and report to some in the embroidered shirt. You understand that this is a protocol action, an event that is not being announced, and we can only protest against the agreements already adopted, not against the intention to adopt those agreements, that is, the outcome of the negotiations. So I'm addressing you, let's not get absurd about what's on the surface, we understand that you're never going to agree to what's going to be in this agreement, let's do it on the terms of the agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u33	Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u34	First, a little lineup again. Don't say, dear fellows, such words are “good news,” “faith”. You know, when you take 50 billion cubic metres of gas for 10 years in advance, and Ukraine needs at least 10 billion less, and you have to pay for those 50, that's both betrayal and betrayal. And you understand that very well. And the Bible says: “The secret of all things will be made manifest. ” It becomes clear. And with regard to this discussion, she confirmed the opinion of the Lithuanian Block that we should enter the river of normal legislative work. And any question has to be dealt with solely on the basis of how it is stipulated in the Rules, in the Kabmin Act, when it is the Kabmin information, and in the Constitution of Ukraine, then it will be better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. Regarding Yuri Karmazin's offer, I think we need to listen to her. That's why I'm asking the relevant committees: the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Industrial Policy, the Committee on Fuel and Energy, together with the government, to deal with the issue. Now, about the deadline for this issue tomorrow. Dear colleagues, again, in accordance with article 240 of the Cabinet of Ministers for up to 20 minutes, answer questions within 20 minutes. If there is a need for the Court of Auditors to provide information, within 10 minutes and a possible presentation from the Main Committee, which provided support. In this regard, the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine must be taken. I think tomorrow we're going to go over this with all due diligence, and I think if we have to talk about it, let's talk about it, but professionally and responsibly, without mutual accusations. No warning? So we agreed on that question. Ladies and gentlemen, I am announcing the election of the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. There's an appropriate draft of the decision, it's given to you. There are, dear colleagues, all necessary materials. Please, Anatoly Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u36	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I appeal to the coalition, if you remember, if we had such an unwritten agreement that the first deputy would be of the opposition. I want to ask you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we have betrayed this principle, whether we are moving forward in any, at least, imaginary democracy. If so, then let the opposition make proposals for the first deputy. For example, I would not deny that it was Mikola Tomenko, and then the vacancy could be properly filled. This is similar to the violence that continues today in Ukraine, which is a serious threat to Ukraine, to its prospects and to democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u37	Thank you. Alexander Efraemov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u38	I would like to remind myself, colleagues, that these arrangements were reached when the largest faction left nine committees and the smaller factions passed eleven committees. Such arrangements are not in force today, so if you take a quota representation, you also have enough representatives in the administrations of the Supreme Council. Therefore, I would like to support the initiative that came from the coalition today and support the candidature provided for in the regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, no one has any reason yet? I provide answers in the form of information to a colleague, a national deputy of Ukraine. After the vacancy of the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I repeatedly appealed to the faction leaders to make appropriate nominations, and I asked the factions of the opposition to submit nominations in order to bring this matter up for consideration. In return, silence. Wait, one minute. You can't wait forever. And as for the agreements that were, I'll tell you, dear colleagues, I wasn't directly a party to these agreements and the batch vote that was taking place on this issue. If anyone was a party to the agreements, let him do them, and I'm going in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations. All documents entered. What are the claims to documents? Can I ask you a question?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u40	Please prepare for the vote. Please cancel the vote. Oleg Lazko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u41	Oleg Laszko, Oleg Laszko, Yulia Block Timoshenko. Volodymyr Mihajlovich, so you became Head of the Supreme Council as a result of the agreements: BUTU, "Block of Lithuania" and "Our Ukraine"! And you're telling me that you weren't part of this deal. That's the first one. And what about the first vice-speaker candidate. As Brother Matthewnko rightly pointed out, it is an unwritten tradition to give this position to a representative of the opposition. And while we were in power, we introduced this tradition, giving the opposition the opportunity for our man to be appointed and voted in favour of this man. This is democracy. And when you take everything in the country and you want the opposition to deprive her of the rights she should have, it's in your mind a democracy that unfortunately won't lead to anything good, because you're not always in power either. Tomorrow you'll be out of power, and you'll be kicked like you're doing with us today. Why are you setting a bad example?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u42	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I'm asking you not to cheat again, to go into accounting. We will not be reminded that the deputy heads of the Supreme Council of Ukraine had chosen much earlier. There is no need to force the memory to refresh. Dear colleagues! There was an offer. Make your bids. In accordance with the Rules, if there are any candidates, an alternative to the candidates may be discussed and selected. That's how I figured it out. That there was no need for a solution, but it took a process to talk about certain pressures. There will be other proposals, other candidates will be put to the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] What? Please enter a letter. Please enter a letter. So, your honorary colleagues, you agreed to put it to a vote, and I would like to stress this, in particular, the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Registration number 6373]] Choose the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, Martinjuk Adam Ivanovich, especially since he is also of the opposition. Please vote. Please vote. [[10:55:38]] For 246 Decision taken. Let us welcome our colleague and wish us fruitful work. Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, we are now under way. Adam Ivanovich, please do not block the work of the Supreme Council, take your place. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on taxation]] [[Registration number 6337]] The rapporteur is Finance Minister Jaroshenko Fedir. Where's the minister? The rapporteur is Finance Minister Jaroshenko Fedir Aleksiyovich. Correspondent is Head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy Terjehohin Sergey Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u43	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear national deputies, present! The Government's draft Ukrainian Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts aimed at ensuring full implementation of the income part of Ukraine's State and consolidated budget in 2010. I should point out that the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget 2010 is taking place under rather difficult conditions. Against the backdrop of an increase in real GDP by 18.4 percent, we need to ensure that taxes are paid to Ukraine's State budget by 58.4 billion or 28.9 percent more of the actual revenue that came last year. At the same time, last year’s financial pit in government finances reached over 100 billion dollars. Under these conditions, the only way to implement the income part of the budget is to improve the tax administration rules and to increase the revenue due to an increase in individual taxes that do not have a significant impact on the final consumer. At the same time, the need to create conditions for restoring the country’s economic development was taken into account. Tom4u has been chosen to lead to economically sound excise duties and resource payments, as well as to improve tax administration standards. In addition to improving tax administration standards for added value and income taxes, which are the main sources of tax revenue to the state budget, there are also measures to detune our country’s economy. So the bill presented to you contains a set of measures that are urgent and are aimed at achieving a positive effect as quickly as possible in implementing the revenue part of the State and the budgeted level in 2010. The government understands that a large number of proposed standards are rather unpopular, but the practice of many countries shows that in times of crisis, excise and resource payments must be compensated for by increasing fiscal taxes and revenues. In particular, the increase in excise duty on alcoholic beverages, tobacco products, petroleum products in Finland, Latvia, Russia, Moldova, and other countries. A low rate of tax administration improvement is being implemented in the United States. The next step of the government to improve the tax system is to adopt the concept of tax reform and to develop and submit a draft Tax Code to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And now we ask the Supreme Council to support the proposed bill as an immediate, anti-crisis action. The government proposes that such changes be made to existing legislation. First. It is proposed to increase the rates of excise duty on alcoholic beverages, filter cigarettes, and gasoline. Once again, the increase in excise duty rates is in line with the world’s experience of increasing government income in crisis situations. Assembly rates in Ukraine and price levels are the lowest in comparison to neighbouring countries. After the adoption of the bill, the price levels for excise goods and parts of the excise collection are generally not higher than those for similar products in neighbouring countries. The increase in excise duties will allow for an additional 4.1 billion dollars. The other one. The introduction of an annual index of payment standards and the special use of natural resources for geological exploration works will allow 505 million dollars to be added to the producer’s price index. Third. It is proposed to increase the rates for special use of surface and underground drinking water. This will allow for a budget of 154 million dollars. The next is to improve tax administration and collection standards, the fourth is to implement integrated control over the full reflection of VAT liabilities, timely identification of payers' problems and the minimization of risk management operations, which will ensure that budget losses are biased when domestic goods are taxed at $6.9 billion. I would like to point out that these norms will have a positive effect only if they are integrated into legislation. Fifth. It is proposed to improve the standard for calculating the object of taxation by income tax in part of the formation of insurance reserves by banks and nonbank financial institutions. This is going to give us another 2 billion dollars. These measures will contribute to the implementation of the income portion of the budget in 2010. In addition, I note that the bill received a positive assessment by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, as well as by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking and the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy. The project has been discussed with business-cycle representatives and business associations. The standards of the bill will help to avoid the risks associated with the post-crisis period in Ukraine’s economy and to implement the income portion of Ukraine’s state and budget. Thank you for your attention and please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for a question to the minister. Please put your name on the information board. Stanislaw Arzhevtin, faction “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u45	Dear reporter, you've probably said things that don't exactly fit reality. Because I know that the Association of Ukrainian Banks, the customers of the banking system to you, on the other hand, have turned to you for destabilizing the entire system and disrupting the rhythmic work, especially the customers of the banking system. And I have a question for you. Please tell me that you're expecting 2 billion dollars of wealth from making it worse for customers of the banking system and the banking system itself. Tell me, please, do you know that in a year the banking system as a whole has suffered 32 billion losses, how are you going to benefit from this mechanism? That's the first question. And tell me, please, how could you let 10 billion dollars from the National Bank be invested in the budget, because you realize that these costs are going to be spent on customers, that is, higher interest rates. I think this fiscal and tax policy is worthless.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u46	Thank you for asking. But I don't agree that politics is worthless for one reason that you know, and now statistics when you look at how our economy is developing in the country, it's very different, so we're already having a positive shift in our economy. That's why the National Budget Act of Ukraine, adopted by the Supreme Council, honourable national MPs, is just adopted on a basic principle, is based on an anti-crisis strategy that is based on such an extremely lively recovery of our state's economy. And based on it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, I answer, that's a very related answer. The answer is that our nation's economy is going to grow, the bank's customers are taking an active position, we're going to unlock their situation. He said he'd let himself be effectively engaged in loan repayments and all that. And the profits of the banks, they're not going to go down this year, they're going to go up. About ten billion, it's all figured out with the National Bank, and this is not just a government position there, and this is a common position between the government and the National Bank, and the calculations that are made and budgeted are balanced and correspond to the real state of the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u47	National MP Prasololov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u48	Please pass the word to the People's Deputy Chechtov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u49	Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u50	Dear Fedor Alexiyovich, thank you for the thorough report. There is one question. A rapid increase in the national currency rate in the fourth quarter of 2008 resulted in significant losses to foreign currency-owned entities. Thus, a recalculation of the exchange rate differences of such debt, which was not even repaid, led to a significant increase in gross costs, which in turn affected tax facilities. Please tell me, what is the purpose of the changes in the calculation of the exchange rate differences? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u51	Thank you, Mikhail Ivanovich. What I want to say is that the bill's rules provide for a change in the rate difference mechanism in gross costs, which is to make a recalculation at the exact moment of repayment of these debts. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u52	Jaroslav Jojik, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u53	Please pass the word to Yuri Costenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u54	Yuri Ivanovich Kostenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u55	Dear reporter, to your information, the water tariff in Ukraine is 7 times higher than in France. Now for the questions. You compare your tax supply with other countries, such as the United States, Finland, and other developed countries. But you know very well that in these countries the state stimulates two things: first is access to cheap credit to the manufacturer, which increases its efficiency in manufacturing, and second, consumer demand. In Ukraine, everything is happening the other way around. You're restricting the producer's access to financial resources, and that's what's become an unstoppable problem in Ukraine, and the consumer demand is shutting down or targeting the purchase of foreign goods that are inundated in Ukraine's market. So your recipes are going to work the other way around, so instead of increasing the revenue of the State Budget, you're going to get a reduction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u56	Please finish the question, Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u57	You're going to get a feedback. Because production is going to go down, and instead of increasing the revenue of the budget, you're going to get a reduction. So this policy is really inefficient and unsuspecting that the previous government has proved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u58	I answer you. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? When I presented the budget, and you were given all these additional materials on which the 2010 budget of Ukraine was formed. On the anti-crisis ground, where the first component of these anti-crisis principles is the steady development of our nation's economy, plus social orientation. So I'm telling you that we have a steady economic development that we're going to be doing today and now we're going to be paying a value added tax that hasn't been paid in years and we're going to be sending over 30 billion dollars to the real economy. Moreover, the State Budget Act provides for a series of social benefits that will boost social demand for goods and services. And these two components, they are the driving force behind the development of our economy and the improvement of the social, economic life of our population. Thank you. I think you'll find that it will.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u59	Oleg Laszko, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u60	Oleg Lazko. Dear Feder Ivanovich, I have a question for you. Feder Ivanovich, here I am! Here! I have a question for you. Please tell me, how is the Minister of Finance not ashamed of how you received the April 27, 2010, budget in the Supreme Council? You've been working in the Ministry of Finance for many years and in the Tax Department for 20 years, I think. At least once in your memory it was possible for the budget without discussion, without the MPs being able to submit their proposals, for the second reading to refine the budget. Have you ever had one? It wasn't. It was the first time. Tell me, do you feel remorse for accepting this essentially anti-national budget, where there is nothing that the electorate has promised and at the same time denied this budget even formal consideration in Parliament? And to cover up what he was saying there was not the right thing to do, because they promised to file a budget by April 11th, and then they gave it to Parliament 26.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u61	Feder Alexiyovich, I'll answer that question. Allow the Supreme Council of Ukraine to work, the budget would be considered in two or three readings, as necessary, do not create a vacchanal. Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u62	Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u63	I have absolutely no reprimand.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u64	Vladimir Karpuk has the right to ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u65	I give the word to Zebrovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u66	Paul Zebravsky, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u67	Feder Alexiyovich, you're saying that the final consumer is not going to be affected in any way. But since you're raising excises on diesel fuel, on gasoline, it's definitely going to affect not only the final consumer, but it's going to affect the entire economy, because it's going to go to gross costs. Next, you're talking about what doesn't affect the final consumer, but you raise the price 50 times the water. Now, in your bill today, you're actually suggesting that we don't take into account the next year's damage to the business, and that's going to have to do with the actual price rises for production and inflation in Ukraine, i.e. the price hikes for production, especially those businesses that are going to be affected by the loss. How you're going to stimulate production and whether you're stimulating.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u68	Please complete the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u69	Do you feel that such measures stimulate production and demand?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u70	Got it. I'm answering. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the 2011 budget, and I want you to know that we had different motivations and projects for the formation of the State Budget. The 2010 budget was first built on the anti-crisis model, which is based on this constant growth of our nation's economy. The whole ideology of our work is built on the constant development of the economy. And if the economy doesn't develop, really then any innovations that we're going to apply in terms of: (a) raising excises, there's rent payments and so on, it's going to be a stagnation of the economy. Our position is that we're in the real economy, I don't want to take your time, lady, I told you, about 30 billion just VAT, and we'll give it to you. The fund, lending, 130 billion dollars will go to the real economy. I'll give you an example, over the past year -- 10 billion -- that's exactly what we're going to have, and we're going to take into account the rise, the slight rise that we're offering today, it's not going to have a significant impact on the end consumer, because the revenue he's getting is going to be much higher. Thank you. I can give you more, please, with every national MP, to give you a calculation and to show you examples. I'm very well-armed and I'll tell you all about it and I'll show you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u71	Thank you, Feder Alexiovich. Have a seat, please. I'm asking Sergei Anatoliyovich Teryochin, head of the committee to publish the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u72	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs, distinguished government officials! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Tax Policy at its meeting on 27 April 2010 reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, and recommended that the Supreme Council accept as a basis, as well as shorten the terms of the Committee's consideration of the bill during its second reading. [[No. 6337]] My function as chairman of the committee is to present this bill, because I remind you that most of the committees are members of the coalition that have made this decision. But in order for us to make a meaningful decision today, I would like to point out that the committee, even in making such a decision, has sent a comment to the Supreme Council on this bill on page 18. To date, a comparative table has been drawn up on the committee’s first reading with the proposals of legislators and legislators. on page 78. That is, any short sentences are meaningless or meaningless if we want to accept a complex and, indeed, normal document. Next. Let me tell you a couple of theses. Well, the first thesis is. As an economist, I don't know why we should rush this document because I remind you that the budget has been accepted. As accepted, that's another problem. But according to the Budget Code, the income portion of the budget is formed. In line with the Budget Code, the change in the income part of the budget and the sources of the income part of the budget may take place by August 1 this year in order to take account of the following budget year. In accordance with the Taxation System Act, the amendment to the Tax Laws may take place by 1 July of the current fiscal year in order to take them into account in the following fiscal year. So clearly, this is about revolutionary relevance, but I'm just reminding you that if we adopt this law, in accordance with the Budget Code and article 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine, we have to make changes to the State Budget of Ukraine for this year. If such changes are not made, all the virtual additional resources, and virtual resources I will now tell you why, will end up in the manual administration of today's government, which we will not allow again under article 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Now essentially. Unfortunately, I have a limited time, although once again 18 pages have been commented on by the committee, but I can actually tell you. Let's say that the changes to the bill on taxation of the income of the natural persons who are offered do not lead to the essence of what is proposed, but only lead to increased corruption of the tax authorities. Period. The other one. Amendments to the value added tax bill on the one hand undermine the notion of value added tax as a neutral tax for production. In fact, a 20 - percent turnover tax is introduced. Wow! There's no such thing in the world! In addition, a mandatory electronic reporting of VAT is introduced. So far, the National System for Electronic Reporting of Taxpayers has not been established. Today you're chewing, as far as you know, we've adopted an appropriate bill in the first reading, they're eating five private companies that stand between the taxpayer and the Electronic Reporting Tax Inspectorate, and they're making money on it. Plus PDF, let's say it's a rule that if you exchange an apartment with another person, you have to go to a private assessor who's going to be defined by the State Tax Office. I mean, it's clear what we're talking about. Or, let's say, we're going to make these changes to the corporate income tax, where it's not possible to invest in capital assets at all. Because damages are limited for future periods of 20 percent of total income.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u73	Let me finish. Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u74	Well, please tell me when the factory is being built, well, everyone understands that the damage is going first, and not one year, and not 20 percent, because there is no income! When incomes arise, they are covered by expenses incurred in the construction of basic funds. This doesn't count. There's other pearls, let's say, that banks were talking about, there's two sides to the medal. Banks don't actually pay taxes right now. The effective rate of taxation of banks on a general basis is about 4 percent, instead of 25 percent, with reserves rolling, let's say, playing. But on the other hand, what the government has offered is taxation not just by banks, but by bank customers. And by the way, it goes to other non-banking institutions. Thus, it is suggested that even the insurance capital of children be taxed. That's what's proposed here. Summary. I could do that again if there was another Rules, I could speak for 30 minutes at every position. But the Rules are the Rules. So that's the offer. From the committee to receive in the first reading. From me personally, as chairman of the committee for the time being, do not make the procedure shorter. And I'd like to say the rest. That the only three deputies who made a remark before the first reading of this bill are in the Party of Regions. The People’s Deputy of China is most active. So I invite all the national MPs to wake up a little bit and see what happened.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u75	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question to the chairman of the committee. Names of the national MPs, please. Paul Sulkowski, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u76	I'd like the reporter to say such things. You know, you're trying once again to compare the actions of today's government to that of the previous government. And so you're silent and you're not saying anything that in 2008-2009, your government led by Prime Minister Yulia Timoshenko was hand-in-hand managing and transposing Ukraine's budget. You don't say that. You tell me what the budget is so fast, it's accepted. Have you had a normal conversation about the budget? You're instead of talking and accepting a reasonable budget, and for fewer questions to arise this year, you've set up a smoke checkers and smoked the whole parliament by your FACT faction. What was then to be discussed? Therefore, you are not wicked, but you are given the opportunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u77	Dear Mr. Deputies! Well, first of all, I'm standing here on the stand, and I'm not talking about gas, I'm talking about economics. Secondly, what you just said reminds me of, you know, the situation in the nursery. When someone sees someone shoving in their noses, it shows that someone else can swing in their noses. In 17 years of independent Ukraine’s tax policy, the rules of the Budget Code and the Tax System Act were violated each year. But let's assign a normal government, in your opinion. Let's, for the first time, decide that, if there's a law, you don't have to bump into your nose. Huh?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u78	Ruslan Knazevich. Microphone, please. The "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u79	I'd like you to give Arjevetine a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u80	Argewtin's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u81	Mr. Sergei, I agree with what you said. You are doing what is right and wise today. Thank you. And my questions are as follows. Please tell me, how did your committee react to the fact that now the State Tax Service of Ukraine will have one more such gendarmerie function and interfere with the legislation on business exit and all that? That's the first one. The same bill introduces another, one rule when the tax agent becomes the banking system. And now, in accordance with the law, before amending the Income Tax Act, the banking system should be a tax agent when paying wages. And as a person who worked on the banking committee, you know, today more and more gendarmerie functions are relying on the banking system: currency control, bank-by-bank, financial monitoring, two-by-bank, tax agent three. When, then, should clients be granted credit?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u82	Well, first of all, the committee is negative about trying to get the tax office involved in a labor relationship. This is reflected in our comments to this project. And I can tell you in truth that most of these comments concerning labour legislation have been adopted by the Ministry of Finance, which shows that the preparation of this project was inappropriate, to say the least. It's about banks. In general, this rule, which is written down here, I'm going to personally tell you that banks are tax agents. Yeah, all over the world. If banks pay cash, they're tax agents. But it's not like it's written here. Imagine, it says here that in excess of the cash that Nazbank has set up, the bank pays a 5 percent fine. We can't impose tax fines to violate any of the National Bank's rules, because that's not tax legislation. More than that, I remind you that when you pay your salary 15 percent of your income tax.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u83	Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u84	Sergey Anatolyevich. Gregory Smythuch, Party of Regions. A few questions for you. First question. Of course, I find that, to date, our banking system has not been taxed at the same level as other activities, including production, which is the basis for budgeting. And I agree in this respect that we need to increase taxes and bring this to the standard that these subjects will have equal rights to. On the other hand, I have a specific question. That's what I'm Please tell me in the bill that we are considering today, excises are increased by alcohol and other beverages. Is this about the wines that are produced in Ukraine, because you know that 650 thousand, I think, even more, in statistics, 650 thousand people are working in this field, and will this affect their development, this area, in order for Ukraine to have enough good products of national production and not capture, like today's market, at the expense of imports? That's the first question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u85	Thank you. It's very short to bring in the banks. After the experience of this two - year crisis, where most governments, including ours, saved not customers, but banks around the world, business, not victims. Today, both the International Monetary Fund and the European Commission are asked about the introduction of a special tax on financial institutions. The previous figure is 20 percent from income to taxes. And that's what discussions are all over the world are about. How to do this in order not to discriminate against customers does not increase the cost of banking services. As to the second question. It goes up to everything, to the vines at the same time. I mean, remember we had one draft law where we taxed the Moroccan wines at the level of natural wines in order to encourage this production in Ukraine as a historical production. And all the assholes, apple peas, were compared to stubbornness and alcohol, and alcohol and alcohol taxes. This bill was adopted by the Supreme Council, but it was then adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u86	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u87	Then it was canceled. I propose to approach this problem as the Supreme Council did two years ago, with 400 votes cast there. And another problem I couldn't hear in the absence of time is raising the cost of water by 15 times, if I'm right. It's going to be about 460 times the cost of water for drinks, including soda, juice there, and so on, beer, and so on, 460 times the value of the Russian Federation. Thus, among other things, when the pools of water were raised in Belarus, they ended the market in Belarus for these beverages. And they're all replaced by European. So pay attention to that. We can't just stop this national industry. And I think you'll make the right points.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, time is spent answering questions. Please sign up for it. [[Thank you.]] to discuss Bill 6337. From factions, please, and directly from the national MPs. Please put your names on the information board. Sergei Pavlovenko. Valerius Baranov. Let's take a half hour to break, and we'll just finish this. Valerius Baranov, Lithuanian Block faction. Alexander Pecklusenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u89	We've got a pretty interesting situation in the liquor industry. I'll tell you that alcohol is sold for 34 bracelets for 1 liter for vodka and 50 copies for 1 liter for solid wines, or, as we call it, black, brown and whatever. So guess what kind of action an enterprising person should take with a fork like that. Of course, it creates conditions under which alcohol is purchased for the production of supposedly reinforced wines, but it is made of vodka. And those domestic producers that produce high-quality water products are out of competition, and there is a huge shadow market that is now around 40 per cent in Ukraine. In the past year alone, 15 million litres of alcohol was sold for the production of wine. What we get in the end is that we get a shadow market, we get a hidden income, we get a budget loss of about 500 million bracelets, we get a burnout of the population with all kinds of crap, we get the destruction of the producer of real and quality dry, semi-dry and dessert wines, and we get the destruction of the vineyard. Why produce grapes when you can buy any cheap raw materials abroad, add alcohol there and then sell and burn our people? In Europe and Russia, there is a single price for alcohol for all producers, no matter what you issue. We are unique in this anti-national and anti-State policy. I ask you to support the bill. The Lithuanian faction supports him, and I ask you to vote for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u90	Thank you. Please have the word Alexander Mikolayovich Pecklusenko. To be prepared, Moses passes it on to Zebrovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Of course, this law should be considered in the context of the State budget situation. We must understand that this Government has received a budget of less than one hundred billion dollars for the State. Just think: 100 billion needs to be found for the Government to fulfil all its obligations to Ukrainian citizens. And of course, in this regard, it is not an accident when the budget was presented, the Government said that its main task was to create conditions for business, for production. This should be the driving force behind budget implementation. But whatever we're building with you today, we still need to add 54 billion to the money that was last year. It's almost a third, it's 2.5 times higher than the rate of growth of gross domestic product. Whoever is in the government today is obliged to seek additional resources. And the Government has made proposals for additional resources. We need to be clear that they're broken down into sectors. The first and the main sectors are not the price increases for goods, they are the price increases for excise duties. And I would ask the Government and you personally, Mr. Secretary-General, to track down and do everything possible, especially with regard to gasoline, so that retail prices are not affected. As part of the Government's tool, there is scope to minimize the shadow schemes so that the prices of the final product are not raised. This is the first and the main task. Second. On behalf of the faction, I ask you, all the money you will receive, to take special control, and to give them priority to increasing pensions and salaries. This is what gives you the right to take such measures. A very serious issue related to the issue of disengagement. I'm asking you to do everything by law, with increased tax power: only through a court decision. We have considered the law in faction and in the Committee on Finance and Banking. We understand that this is the best of the worst that we can do today. And by faction and committee, we propose to adopt it on first reading, and we propose to conduct a second reading procedure as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u92	Pavlov Zebrovsky, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" faction, please. You have the right to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, in fact, the déjà vu, yes. More recently, this side of the hall has criticized this party for suggesting such shameful decisions: both by action, and by administration, and so forth. And here, those colleagues who spoke from the Party of Regions, they were so eager to talk about the anti-national government of Timoshenko, just as the natives today should criticize the anti-national regime of Azarov. There's really nothing to do with caring about the economic game in this bill. I'm sorry, but if you look at the administration that seems to be trying to reconcile it, it's a crazy tax pressure on business. If you look at the action, and the reporter here said he wouldn't hit the end user. It's going to hit, because diesel is spoken for, and at least 50 kips is going to go up in a broken net, that's a minimum, and not to mention all production. And this is going to be gross costs, and this is going to be inflation, and this is going to be going to increase producer prices, all producers without exception, both the agrarian sector, and the industry, it's actually going to affect the entire economy of Ukraine. I'm sorry, but because of the destruction of the tax economy, they don't collect taxes. My friends, let Minfin steal from the dead, let Minfin start making money from what the economy is going to be. They say there's going to be a lot of money going to the economy? For the first time in May, VAT bills are introduced, and even as of the beginning of this year, no bracelet will be reimbursed for VAT. Only what will be compensated from May 1st to December 1st. All other five - year bonds with unintelligible income and, in fact, only then will the sale of these bills be possible. You don't have to talk about the stock market that buys these bills, because the inflation that offers 13.1 percent, and whoever invests in the bill, wants to make at least a little bit more than the inflation rate. So 20 percent of the discount per year, five years is zero. You can't actually sell these bills. What is being introduced today is that these novels, which are being proposed, have been criticized by their friends after the same activism. Today, if you raise excises on the same cigarettes, 1.4 times as much as in Russia and 3 times as in Moldova. We were talking about the smuggling that will come from Moldova and Russia to Ukraine. It's just a relief, it's suppressing economic development, it's not anti-crisis measures, it's crisis measures. And to talk about economic development, we don't have to talk about people in manufacturing. I'm sorry, there's no politics here, there's a clean economy here, and first of all it's going to hit those jobs, it's going to hit the wages level, and it's going to hit the economy at all. I'm sorry, I'm asking you, without politics, to come clean as a professional person and realize that the taxes and revenues of the budget can only be income.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u94	Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions. The next one will be by Xenius Leppin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u95	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, of course, is a bill under consideration. At this time a bill is being considered, it is important and necessary, because Ukraine cannot continue to delay the situation that is now in the economy as a whole. And the economy is not working or working at a low level in terms of financial and other crises. And so, of course, the government that announced the program, and you and I have approved the budget here, has to do something to fulfill their social obligations to the population. But on the other hand, let's look at some issues that have a fundamental impact on the adoption of this law. What's going on with the banking system. I have always said and I will repeat that the banking system today is a parasite to the economy of Ukraine. Because no country in the world has such interest rates as the current banking system in Ukraine. And those lobbying that are present in the Supreme Council and those banks that are present as parasites on our economic body in Ukraine, this phenomenon needs to be done by the government. And I agree that the taxation of the banking system should go a new way. Why do they have privileges in relation to other manufacturers, carpenters, coal industry, agriculture, and so forth? Why should they? Why has the banking system been the only thing we have in recent years? What has happened to us in the last five years after the Orange Revolution? Please tell us that the “ten steps” of Yashchenka have been taken at least one step to meet the population? No, it's not. Would you please tell me that we have created jobs? No, it's not. Please tell me, did we have a reduction in the value added tax or a reduction in the State's debt to importers? No, it's not. And it's gone up tens of times, and it's tens of times, these costs don't allow Ukraine to develop. They don't give negotiable costs because the exporter isn't interested in exporting it, the state doesn't return. And why doesn't the state return because the state doesn't return because there was no effective use of these funds. And that's why the previous government was speaking, why isn't Teryochin and Zebrovsky here speaking six months ago and a year ago, that we have a government debt of VAT of over 30 billion, that's the cry of the souls of those importers who should do it? The following question. Grapes and grapes You and I have discussed several times that a branch needs to be preserved, developed, or restored. Because from the time of Gorbachev, Ligacheva, you remember, was almost destroyed. And then we said that one of the mechanisms is, of course, the impact on the right response through taxes and including excise duties. Of course, if we take Massandra as our leading wine-growing flagman, yes, it certainly makes up about 40 percent of his drinks. And, of course, all of this will have an impact. And here we have to look at the second reading and consult with the experts: or do we need to bring up 14 times in this field of excise duty, or maybe reduce it a little bit, but take it up step by step in order to be able to grow the products that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u96	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u97	they don't drink alcohol. And the last question about gasoline excises. Dear colleagues, you remember when oil was worth $150 in market markets -- that's one cost situation. But please tell me, did the oil cost twice as much, and for a while it was less in the previous government, did the fuel cost of our eye stations go down or not? It's getting bigger. This affects our production and agriculture as a whole. So what I'm saying here is, of course, the excise should be raised and the excise should be built on roads.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u98	Thank you. Well, let's get this over with. Please, Xenia Lapina, the faction of "Our Ukraine People's Self-Defense." Next up will be Jaroslav Jojik.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u99	Thank you. Xenia Lapina, group “For Ukraine!” Of course, you can talk about this bill for a long time, and I'll only talk about the basic features that make this bill, unfortunately, totally unacceptable to the Ukrainian economy today. First. A novelty that was not understood even by the Scientific and Experimental Authority when control in the field of labour relations is passed on to the tax administration. Questions. Do you think the tax administration can control the safety of work? Hardly. Can the tax administration control the working conditions? Hardly. And the payroll control is a tax inspection, and it has the right to do and do all these years. Then what exactly is meant by this innovation? What this will be, in practice, is understood by anyone who has ever had a bearing on entrepreneurship. These will be police methods, “show masks” that will come to every enterprise in the form of a noble objective of monitoring the performance of working conditions. It's going to be absolute, total control not in that sphere at all, and it's not going to contribute to any increase in employment at all, it's going to be strictly the other way around. It will lead to the realization that each entrepreneur will realize that having a hired person, that is to say, will result in serious consequences and should therefore be avoided. We're going to have an increase in the number of entrepreneurs who don't have any employees, and then you're going to talk about where the Pension Fund budget went. It's an absolute crime, a crime against entrepreneurs, a crime against the Pension Fund to offer such things. The other one. In the area of corporate income taxation, this bill leads to the fact that losses of previous periods cannot actually be carried forward for the next period and therefore taxes on non-existent earnings must be paid: they are not available and taxes must be paid. This will certainly lead to further toning. Third. E-reporting on VAT. Dear colleagues, it's not just an electronic report or an electronic declaration. It's what all the police agencies in the tax administration have been dreaming about for so long, it's going to lead to a significant deterioration in the business situation. And finally the fourth. Do not hope that increases in excise duties on things such as diesel or gasoline will not lead to higher inflation. This will worsen the macroeconomic situation. So this bill shows that the government is today, unfortunately, completely helpless and doesn't know what to do in the economic sphere to really make the economy work and taxes actually come.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u100	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u101	Last sentence. The government continues to collect taxes, to wipe out, to squeeze taxes, and not to wait for these taxes to be paid normally from a well - developed economy. This is the way to nowhere, this is the way we've all criticized here. And there is no such excuse, the mistakes of the previous government do not excuse the mistakes of the government today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u102	Thank you. Jaroslav Jojik, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" faction. The next will be Stanislaw Arzewittin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u103	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Obviously, both in 2009 and 2010, Ukraine faced an extremely complex and acute problem of government budget balance. However, instead of the real reformist steps to balance this budget, first of all, due to the lowering of the expenditure portion of the budget, nothing other than a substantial increase in tax pressure that would put the new authority in an intolerable position of a Ukrainian producer. During this period, it seems that the new government has not been able to understand the real state of Ukrainian businesses. It seems that he is proposing legislative standards for some virtual and economic environment. Because the drugs that the government should offer should take into account the real situation of Ukrainian businesses. However, this bill suggests that the government wants to treat the patient by measuring the average temperature in the hospital. The government believes that only the damage caused by the expansion of production and modernization of enterprises, which account for 20 percent of the overall structure of the damage, is a reasonable loss. It seems that the government feels that the exchange rate difference of the previous years seems to have fallen out of the sky and that they have evaporated, and the enterprise will not have to pay off these loans. I would like to inform the government that the vast majority of businesses are not only unable to repay loans but even to service interest. Obviously, after the introduction of this law, businesses will not be able to pay interest alone, nor will they be able to pay taxes. And then the effect isn't just going to be reverse, and the whole sector is going to go bankrupt. The government believes that if there are non-refundable taxpayers who increase the cost of marketing services, securities transactions, instead of fighting them by writing down specific rules, the government wants to bankrupt the whole sector that took credit, modernised it, received the rate of damages, and now only 20 percent of these amounts are counted. In previous years, governments have always experienced this type of activity.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u104	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u105	In previous years, governments have suggested that this problem be resolved in some ways. In previous years, however, there was a lack of sound economic thinking in order to avoid such economic crimes. Therefore, the Ukrainian People's Party does not in any case call for a vote in favour of this bill, but calls on everyone, including the business wing of the Party of Regions, who must surely be aware.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u106	Thank you, thank you. Stanislaw Arzhevtin, faction of "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense", next will be the Evening.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u107	Stanislaw Arzeviteen. I actually went out to read, to announce a statement by the Association of Commercial Banks. But when you listen to my partners say that the banking system is a parasite, because it's a big interest rate. Ladies and gentlemen, let's not speak headlines from this rostrum. Let's speak professionally. Let me give you a few examples of how these interest rates are formed. First, 10 billion made the National Bank's income. Please tell me, isn't this going to be put on your shoulders through customer banks? More than 100 billion have received a banking system to give customers the highest price in Europe. The Cabinet of Ministers removes 50 billion dollars a year from the capital market that could become potential credit resources. Distrust in power, mistrust in national currency, and mistrust in banks have caused more than 150 billion to flee. That's where the money needs to be searched. Next. And by the way, we've even removed the deposit guarantee from the Population Fund, and we're with you, so we're in pain for the people we've deposited! 70 percent of the customers in banks today are corrupt, with a bad reputation. Please tell me what kind of interest rates can be in these situations when there is a total credit deficit in our country. I'm not talking about the terms of the speculative capital that comes from the neighbouring economies to make money here and cause higher prices. Now for the statement of the Association of Ukrainian Banks. The Association of Ukrainian Banks states that the adoption of Bill 6337 will lead to the stability of the banking system, the deterioration of the working conditions of customers, operators, and even the maintenance of the State Budget itself, and the suspension of credit. The Association of Ukrainian Banks is calling on you, honourable national deputies, to prevent the introduction of a new order by banks of insurance reserves, as proposed by this bill, which in the face of a financial crisis will dramatically exacerbate the working conditions of banks, will lead to bankruptcy by a whole group of banking institutions. It's going to make the banking system's customers worse. This bill has made even worse the conditions for the formation of reserves that were in place before the start of the crisis. And the anti-crisis law that you and I barely passed here, it made things worse, stabilized the banking system, now we're doubling those standards. So I think in a financial crisis, these legislative initiatives are worthless. We have to do everything we can to get our customers to have the circulation costs so that the prices on credit resources are really lower, but we have to deal with the factors that I'm talking about, not by administratively dispossessing companies that are still in a financial crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u108	National MP, Party, faction of the Party of the Regions. The next one will be Alexy Plonikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u109	Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished people's deputies, respected citizens of Ukraine! Today we are considering an important tax bill that we must adopt. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that European countries are also seeking to raise more funds from the population, from production and to channel the same funds to the population, to pensions, to scholarships, to medicine and so on. In any State, more money must be taken and the State should be refocused. For this purpose, however, the State must not interfere with the production and industry, but rather allow it to earn first. What is happening in our country today? Ongoing tax checks, non-tax authorities do not accept VAT return declarations, old confirmed VAT forces the removal from the register of amounts upon the return of old VAT, which have already been declared. Of course, that's not right. I would like to address Fedor Alekseevich as Minister, saying that this is strictly prohibited by law. In the courts, which are confirmed by VAT, tax authorities are now working to ensure that businesses remove this VAT, and a tax pit is established. And I, as a member of the Party of the Regions, in the Committee on European Cooperation, want to say that all these materials and opposition are being prepared and placed on the European Commission's table in Brussels. The IMF Commission is coming to our house. With which person will you work with them to take credit when this happens in the country, there is a clean procession of tax authorities. Even the court is ignored, remember, the court in our country is ignored, which has confirmed the return of VAT to industrial enterprises. But mainly taxes and profits are generated by industrial enterprises. That's why I'd like to address the Minister of Finance, Fedor Aleksevich. Fedor Aleksevic, a fellow minister, you listen to the IMF on credit, and we discuss such serious things and you don't even pay attention, but you do VAT checkups, you don't take tax returns, even if you listen. This bill needs to be finalized immediately because here, sitting in our room indirectly or directly in connection with production, we need to finalize the bill immediately so that we can look honestly at our producers, our citizens and transparently.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u110	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u111	Once again, I would like to draw the attention of all our people's deputies. This bill requires a thorough revision and then rereads. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u112	Yes, Alexy Plotnikov, faction of the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u113	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! This bill envisages some changes to a number of laws that would improve the legal field in tax evasion regulations: improving administrative procedures, bringing rates closer to the level of similar taxes that operate in developed countries. In view of the effect that this law has on a number of laws that are in force, it should draw attention to the benefits that are set forth in a number of laws, such as the income tax. In particular, this law provides for the elimination of a number of large enterprises that have a balance sheet profit in accounting and declare tax amounts that cannot be matched by smaller ones or that reflect in the declaration a negative value that is passed on to the next reporting period. That is, the proposed bill is aimed at this particular situation. The bill also improves the VAT administration situation. Today's provisions of the Added Cost Tax Act have some gaps that help unscrupulous taxpayers to create schemes for financing their activities, especially at the expense of the State Budget, whether by not paying VAT or somehow by fictitiously compensating the VAT. Finally, this law is also designed to improve the tax situation of natural persons, particularly in terms of what is proposed to combat pay in envelopes. Here, the proper mechanism for combating pay in envelopes is also proposed. Finally, the Law on local self-government, particularly in part of the law of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crime and Rural, Village, City Councils, to impose taxes on only local taxes and congregations to ensure that public taxes are fully taxed. Taking into account what has already been said today, many different comments, taking into account that this bill is quite ambiguous and in the hall, in expert circles, it is proposed to be adopted in the first reading, so that the second reading can be completed and, accordingly, improved by this bill. I want to give Homutini another 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u114	National MP Homutinnik, please, one minute, final speech. Paul Sulkowski gives the right to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u115	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! On April 27, we discussed this bill at a committee meeting and decided to set up a working group to which representatives of the public college, the national MPs, had joined. And, in principle, there is now, as it were, although not under the Rules, there is already a comparative table under this bill, and many of these observations, which are in contact with the Ministry of Finance, have already found agreement. At the committee meeting, we made this decision: to take the first reading and recommend that the bill be shortened to take account of the fact that the budget has already been adopted and that the additional resource that the finance minister was talking about today should be searched for. So if possible, Vladimir Mikhailovich, given the committee's decision, if we don't make it on Thursday, at least next week to consider this bill in a second reading. And also, again, there's some criticism at the Ministry of Finance's address, but many of those questions that we've heard today, we're already working, and again, I emphasize, we've found. And we should thank the government that we are considering this bill separately from the budget. Otherwise, we might be able to accept this bill by now. So to work for a week, and I think we're going to be able to solve a lot of these questions that are going on today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u116	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is closed. I am addressing the Minister of Finance, are you going to express a summary and answer certain questions that have been raised and criticism? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u117	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I am deeply grateful for this discussion. And I ask you to support this bill in the first reading and the second reading in the shortened procedure. And in the committee discussion, we'll work out, discuss all your suggestions and try to take them all into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u118	Please, Sergey Teryochin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, indeed, the committee, I confirm, has decided to shorten the procedure. But in view of what has come up with a lot of observations and they continue to do so, Vladimir Mikhailovich, in the event of a decision on a reduced procedure, I would like to ask for a protocol decision that all additions or proposals by the legislators have come to the committee by 12 a.m. tomorrow. That's the first one. But from the point of view. Because we can't handle this one. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we're technically not going to be able to process a huge table. But it's probably best not to break the general principle of development, which is not to decide on a reduced procedure. We will have two weeks to prepare a good bill with the Ministry of Finance and submit it to the Supreme Council. Otherwise, technically, the committee won't be able to accept, develop this table. And finally, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, so that this is not seen as an attempt to slow down the design process somehow. I can say a little politically, cynically. For the opposition of acceptance. The best way out of this situation is to accept this project without any rights. This is what Minfin gave, so we should take it and then wait for a month. But in terms of economic morality, we can't afford to do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u120	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have completed our consideration of the matter. Committee proposals. The first is to take the basis. The second is to have the committee prepare for the second reading of this bill by a reduced procedure so that the Supreme Council of Ukraine can decide on the final decision in the next plenary week. And accordingly, the deadlines for submitting proposals to the committee will be tightened. I will put to the vote the first proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts. [[on taxation]] Based on the base. Please vote. [[12:07:53]] For 240 Decision taken. Now the second proposal, on the commission of the committee to prepare it for consideration in the second reading, is that, on the next plenary week, the Supreme Council of Ukraine will have the opportunity to consider it in a second reading. And as requested by the deputies, make immediate suggestions for the second reading. I'm voting on a proposal to have the committee prepare a bill for second reading on a reduced procedure for the next plenary week. Please vote. [[12:08:44]] For 242 Decision taken. The factions? Please. Region Party – 171, "Club of Timoshenko" – 15, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 7, communists – 27, "Club of Lithuania" – 19, non-factional – 3. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a recess of up to 12 hours for 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u121	Please invite the national deputies to the session room so that we can continue our work. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the second reading of the bill. Your point is to propose a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on protection of cultural heritage. It's a second reading again. The rapporteur is Moisik Volodymyr Romanovich, head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement. No, we're going to go to the repairs now, but we can't wait for all our colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, first, second, third, fourth are included. Do you insist on who's on this amendment? Amendment No. 5 of the people's parliament of Kruc has been rejected. Does he insist on this amendment? No, it's not. Paul Mikhailovich Movchan. Amendment number six. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Amendment 7, 8, 9 counted. Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski Amendment 10. Are you insisting on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u122	What did I mean, dear colleagues? Vladimir Yavorowski, Timoshenko Yulia Block, Zlatopyl. I meant to let workers who have, let's say, large museums, reserves, have their own protection. And it would be nice, let's say, by the time the police come up and stuff like that, to give them that opportunity, if it's not that big a violation, to come, let's say, the law enforcement authorities have the right to bring these people to the militia. There's nothing here, I understand it's going to be hard and hard to do. That's why I made this proposal, and I'd ask her to put it to a vote, and I'd understand very well that for so many people who are in the room today, she's not going to get away with it. But this is my right and I ask you to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u123	Amendment 10, by Vladimir Yavorowski, is put to the vote. [[12:42:48]] For-27 Correction not supported. Amendments 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19 are included. Amendment 20 is rejected. Anatoly Seminoga insists on it? No, it's not. 21, 22, 23, 24 are accounted for. 25th. Yuri Carmazin. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u124	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Yuri Carmazin. I would ask you to note that I propose to article 141, paragraph “e, ” which is now added, in a different edition, and to write it this way: “For the protection of the monuments of archaeology on which they are located, except for the lands where the monuments of archaeology, the fields of ancient battles, and the historical and cultural preserves are located in cases where persons who now own these areas are entitled to use in parentheses. ” [[unable and willing to carry out such protection at their own expense]] I am grateful that most of my amendments have been taken into account by the committee, but this amendment is not included. I believe that this should include article 141, paragraph “e. ” Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u125	Vote number 25, by Yuri Karmazin. [[12:44:35]] For-9 No correction supported. 26, 27, 28 - accounted for. Amendment 29. Is Krutz's national MP insisting on her? I can't see. 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35 counted. 36th, Yuri Carmazin, rebuffed. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u126	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to define this amendment and write another part of the first article of the Act, complementing it with new paragraphs. Since we are already reviewing the Cultural Heritage Protection Act, we need to determine what cultural values are. And this is defined as the property of a religious or secular character that has historical, artistic, scientific, or other cultural significance. I list: works of art, books, manuscripts, incubators, archival materials, components, and fragments of architectural, historical, artistic monuments, and monumental monuments, as well as other categories of objects. And what a treasure is, a definition. This is: “The land, or hidden by other means of value, as well as the foreign and foreign currency, whose owner is unknown, or by virtue of law has lost the right to them as well as the person who has discovered it, must hand over to the financial authority for transfer to the property of the State.” With that alone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u127	Please improve the formulation of your suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u128	Thank you. So I want to make a more precise definition of both cultural values and a treasure to promote normal constitutional treatment of the property that can be found in the form of treasures. Thank you for the opportunity to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u129	Amendment 35 of Yuri Karmazin is put to the vote. [[12:46:48]] For-33 No correction supported. Amendment 39. Vladimir Matthew, are you insisting on her? No, I can't see. Amendment 56, National Deputy Krutz. Don't insist. Amendment 68, Vladimir Matthew doesn't insist? No, it's not. Yuri Carmazin, 69th. Do you insist, Yuri Anatolyovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u130	No, I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u131	Amendment 73, does the author of Paris insist? No, it's not. Amendment 83, Vladimir Yavorowski, do you insist on it? See page 47.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u132	Yavorowski and Kosov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u133	Yeah. Yavorowski and Kosov Mikhailo
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u134	No, it's not. Amendment 91, Vladimir Matthew, do you insist on it?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, we have considered all the amendments. At the same time, the committee that proposes to be accepted in the second reading and in general failed to take into account the comments of the Chief Legal Authority, including the violation of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules. And, dear colleagues, I remind you that I have repeatedly addressed the committee heads in writing on this matter, not to violate the Rules. What is it? If the Supreme Council of Ukraine had adopted the draft law in the first reading and it was about making changes to the relevant articles, the national deputies had the right to make proposals concerning these articles. In fact, we have a practice of going beyond these articles. And in fact, by adopting a change in one article or another, we are ultimately reviewing a whole law that is contrary to the rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and common sense. I'd just like to have that in mind. For reasons of vote, please, Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u136	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, Zlatopyl, 100th constituency. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you're logically thinking and, indeed, the danger that we're changing some of the postulates before the second reading is that it's the right thing to do. But, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, in that case, let's get it done that way. We have a constant argument. Let us accept it in the first reading, and then during the first and second readings, we will definitely make some radical changes and so forth. Therefore, let us now establish some purity and a certain stereotype of how to deal with these issues. Let's be clear. Then perhaps in the first reading this bill does not accept, if it then requires very, very much radical change. Then everything will be in place.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u137	Thanks for the offer. Please Deputy Minister of Culture and Tourism, Timothy Grigorovitch Kohan. What are the thoughts of the Cabinet of Ministers?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u138	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Deputies! Well, first of all, on behalf of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, we wanted to thank you for looking at this very, very important question for us. We thank those comments that have been taken into account, thank those MPs who have withdrawn their comments, and we would like to support them, because this is, indeed, a very serious and important law for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for a second reading committee as a whole as a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the protection of cultural heritage. [[Registration number 3190]] [[12:52:02]] For 274 The law is passed. At the same time, I draw the attention of the committee heads once again to the inadmissibility of correcting the draft laws that we adopt in the first reading and in preparing for the second reading. Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Operational Search Activities is being announced. [[on international cooperation]] [[Registration number 4438]] The rapporteur is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement, Mr. Gretzak Vasil Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u140	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! A committee on law enforcement was prepared for consideration in the second reading of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on Operational Search Activities. [[on international cooperation]] [[No. 4438]] The bill was drafted by a national deputy, Committee Secretary Behiz Valerius Ananiyovich. Following an invitation by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladimir Mikhailovich Lithuania, Secretary-General Interpol Nouble, and a discussion with the leadership of the Supreme Council, members of the Professional Committee, heads of the law enforcement bodies of Ukraine, on the problems encountered during the cooperation of the operational units of the law enforcement authorities of Ukraine with the relevant branches of the law enforcement agencies of foreign states. The adoption of this law will allow for the harmonization of the legislative provision of international cooperation in the field of operational and search activities and the commitment of Ukraine to membership in the International Criminal Police Organization, Interpol, and will enable operational units, the law enforcement authorities of Ukraine to make more effective use of the capabilities of this organization. The committee considered all the amendments made by the people’s deputies and took them into account. The bill proposed by the final committee is initiated by the Chief Legal Authority without notice. Please support and accept the bill in second reading and in general as the Law of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u141	Thank you. Winter Leonid Mikolaiovich, Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs? Please, what is the attitude of the Cabinet of Ministers towards this bill? No notes? None. Right. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for a second reading committee and generally as a bill of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Operational Search Activities. [[on international cooperation]] [[Registration number 4438]] [[12:55:26]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. Please, Winter Leonid Mikolaiovich, Deputy Minister of Interior for Bill 4438. What is the position of the Cabinet of Ministers?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u142	We would like the article to read as follows: “Cooperation in the field of intelligence between ministries, other central executive bodies, state bodies, which include operational units defined in Article 5 of this Law, and law enforcement agencies and other special services of foreign states, which have appropriate branches, as well as international law enforcement agencies, are carried out in accordance with Ukraine’s law, Ukraine’s international treaties, as well as the establishment of acts and rules of international law enforcement organizations of which Ukraine is a member.” I also propose a new edition of paragraph 20.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u143	Leonid Mikolaiovich, I'm sorry. How does the government support this bill or not? And we have all these tables. Your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u144	Our position: Amend accordingly after the second reading to read again.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u145	Right. Dear colleagues, since the Supreme Council of Ukraine did not accept the proposal to approve the draft law. The other thing that remains is that we're sending the draft law for re-reading. [[Registration number 4438]] Please vote. [[12:57:28]] For 270. Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Police Act is being tabled. [[on international cooperation]] [[Registration number 4441]] The reporter is Gretzak Vasil Mikolaiovich. Please, Vasil Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u146	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! A committee on law enforcement was prepared for consideration in a second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Police Act. [[on international cooperation]] [[Registration number 4441]] The bill was also drafted by a committee after negotiations with the Secretary-General of Interpol, Noble, and worked with the Ministry of Internal Affairs and other interested parties. The bill proposed by the final committee is initiated by the Chief Legal Authority without notice. All amendments made during the consideration of this bill are taken into account. Please support and accept the bill in second reading and in general as the law of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u147	Thank you. Please, what's the offer from the Cabinet of Ministers? Is the bill supported or not? Is it supported? The Cabinet of Ministers supports the draft law. Therefore, we have every reason to put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Police. [[on international cooperation]] [[Registration number 4441]] Please vote. [[12:59:37]] For 271 The law is passed. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act is being announced for consideration. [[on University clinics]] [[Registration number 1487]] The rapporteur is Kurilo Vitaly Semenovich, head of the Committee on Science and Education. Out of the way, if you please. Here's an offer: to postpone consideration of the draft law to reconcile the final position. Please, Vitaly Semenovich, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u148	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, consultations show that there is a request to postpone consideration of the bill because not all agreed positions with the Health Committee. Therefore, the request to postpone consideration of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, I'll explain more. Since there are no agreed positions to support this bill, there is therefore a request from the authors to postpone its consideration from the committee. Perhaps the positions will be reconciled. That's right. Please, Samuel Catherine of Simeon.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich, I don't understand at all what positions may be out of harmony and how we can report this if this decision is taken unanimously at the committee meeting. The law is essential. I want to tell you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, look, we can't have any apprentices in vocational and technical education for today. Why? Because the law provides for a 50 percent payment, and that's why they just don't take it to save money. As far as the Ukrainian Law on University Clinics is concerned. It applies exclusively to medical universities. We've been given comments on the proposals by the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority on what two legal persons are creating. To our second reading, we avoided this disagreement. Eugene Mikolaiovich, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u151	Complete your opinion, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u152	I'm done. He will tell you that disagreements are eliminated, and the law itself is essential. I don't understand. Someone didn't read it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u153	I'll tell you who didn't finish. Please make an offer from the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u154	The Ministry of Education and Science supports this bill, given its relevance and its work. It's been worked out.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, there are two suggestions. The first is to postpone consideration of this bill in order to finally reconcile positions, the second is to consider it. If you look at it now, I guarantee you it will be broken, this law. So I would like to support this proposal. During the break, we consulted on this bill, and there are no votes to support it. So I'm voting on a motion to move the draft Law to the next plenary week. [[Registration number 1487]] I'd like to make a positive decision. [[13:03:23]] For 276 Decision taken. Please, Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u156	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, we have made the right decision, which we have postponed, because in such a remark, which was recorded by the General Directorate, the Legal Office, where it is written that there is a violation of articles 6, 19, 92 and 120 of the Constitution, it is clear that the law must be reviewed in such a conclusion. And given the opportunity not to compromise this law, because it's very important to do university medical clinics that are all over the world to do in Ukraine, it's very important that I ask you to give a protocol order or vote in favour of this, or you can give the committee a second look at it, taking into account the scientific and expert's observations, the Chief Legal Authority, sorry. And then we're going to open the way so that we don't break the law, complete this week, which is going to be normal. And what Samuel said would be perfectly normal, civilized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, the offer obviously deserves support. If there is no objection, I would ask the Secretariat to prepare a written commission for the committee: to take into account the comments and recommendations of the General Legal Directorate when this bill is being finalized. Is there no objection? None. I am announcing a draft Act amending article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices. [[on Braille labelling]] The reporter is the National Deputy of Ukraine Korz, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u158	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! I would like to say that the bill in question was adopted as the basis for the first reading on 4 March this year. The Health Committee was tasked with finalizing the bill, taking into account the proposals made by the actors of the law of the legislative initiative and bringing it to the consideration of the Supreme Council on second reading of the reduced procedure. The draft was introduced for second reading on 11 March this year. The bill aims to prevent an unreasonable increase in the price of medicines for all categories of the population due to the need for additional Braille marking. It is legislatively proposed that this issue be resolved by introducing in the law an appropriate rule that allows Braille not all medicines without exception, but only those used by visually impaired people without the assistance of medical personnel. The right to determine which products may be labelled is proposed by the Ministry of Health. Suggestions. In accordance with the legislation, the Committee received seven proposals from Deputy Bacheteva, Karpuka and Suškević. The proposals of the People's Deputies of Bacheva, Karpuk, are fully taken into account, and the proposals of the People's Deputies of Suškević are taken into account in essence. I would therefore like to invite you, distinguished members of the people, to put the law to the vote and adopt it as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, the committee is offering to accept it as a whole. The principal legal authority agrees with the committee’s decision. Please, Valery Suškevitch, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u160	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! National Deputy Suškević, head of the Supreme Council Committee on the Rights of Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Amendment No 5, my amendment, recorded ‘partially counted’. And I have a request: that part of the public organization that unites blind Ukrainian citizens, they ask and, in fact, for their submission, I have proposed that the Ministry of Health, with the participation of the All-U.S. Public Disability Organizations, define the medical devices that are marked with Braille. In this regard, since there is such a request from public organizations that unite the blind, I have to take into account the part of the amendment that the Ministry of Health, with the involvement of the All-Ukrainian public organizations, determines these medical devices. I want to say that this is in line with the Ukrainian Law on the Fundamentals of Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities, where decisions relating to persons with disabilities are taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u161	Please make a proposal to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u162	You know, in the extent that we've taken into account the proposals of all the national MPs, they're all accounted for. Once again, I do not deny Valery Mikhailovich Suškevitch’s position personally, but I do not know how the Ministry of Health will react, for this committee will have to be involved with and reconciled with the public. I understand that more than 11,000 drugs have been registered in Ukraine, their names and chemical structure, and it's all very dynamic. It's the Ministry of Health's judgment, I think.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, in general, we should leave if we have a proper ministry, it must meet the requirements of the State. If we put public organizations in charge of executive power, then we won't have a result. But along with that insistence was, it was the right of a national MP. I'm putting the number 5 amendment of People's Deputy Suškević to the vote. [[13:09:36]] For -14 There was no support for the offer. Now we're going to go through the amendments to the vote, and then you're going to be able to speak. All other amendments are included. For reasons of vote, will you, Yuri Anatolyevich, as amended? Please, first Yuri Karmazin and then Valeriy Suškevitch. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u164	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have all the copies of what I am sending to the committee. I sent it to the Health Corrections Committee, God forbid it's not included in the table, but I'd like you to hear it now. The “Final Position” stated: first, to bring the Cabinet of Ministers into a three-month term, to bring its legal acts into line with this law. And the second is that it's very important and it's possible that Suškević will hear and also communicate with what he's offering. To confirm the situation, I propose to the government that citizens with visual impairments be given access to certain pharmacies or pharmacies, where these citizens are provided with expanded information about medical devices free of charge in the Ukrainian language printed in Braille. This would make life easier for them. And the third. To ensure that the ministries and other central executive bodies review and repeal their laws that conflict with this law. I would ask, I don't understand why it's not included in.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u165	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u166	I'd like to point out to my colleague Karmazin that his proposals came after the deadline is over, it's really documented. Secondly, one of the main motives of this law is not only to provide people with bad eyesight with Braille, but also to prevent further medical advances. We've had between 50 percent and 200, 300, 400 and so on in recent years. If we make additional arrangements for the preparation of individual printing instructions and so forth, it will all be very clearly cost-effective and will lead to further medical advances. We have discussed these issues with the public and in general, and everyone agrees with the minimum that is stated in the bill. And I'd like to put a stop to this and support the final drafting of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, let's agree to this argument, and then we'll take it all into account. Valerius Suškević for reasons of vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u168	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, let us remember that Ukraine has signed and ratified the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. And Volodymyr Mikhailovich, when you say that public organizations of disabled people will run state bodies -- that doesn't fit the reality. The point is that the blind and its public organizations can participate in the definition of Braille. And that's normal, it's stipulated by the law of Ukraine and the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. It's perfectly normal to agree on a list of drugs that refer to the blind. We didn't vote for that. And in this situation, we're going to take away the opinion of social organizations of people with disabilities about drugs that are going to be labeled Braille. Sadly, we did not accept that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u169	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am convinced that when this bill is introduced, the Ministry of Health should bring together representatives of public organizations. One minute, so let's replace everyone at all, and we'll decide when to walk and what decisions to make. Let us write down after the adoption of this law, if the Supreme Council supports it, I will sign a letter on behalf of the Supreme Council recommending the Ministry of Health when implementing this law to conduct appropriate consultations with public organizations that unite people who are not seeing well or who are blind. And let's agree to such compromising proposals. Ministry of Health?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u170	Yes, we support.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u171	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices. Please vote. [[13:14:42]] For 225 Dear colleagues, I am addressing all of you, let us not experiment and improvise! And if you have to, let's just say, don't put the budget on some social organizations. That's enough! And I would ask you not to engage in deception. I'm voting for the return to Law 5506. [[13:15:25]] For 234 Decision taken. I now vote on the adoption of the second reading and generally as a bill of the draft Act amending article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices. [[13:16:01]] For 273 The law is passed. Thank you. I'm announcing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Heat Act. [[on the modernization, reconstruction and construction of thermal facilities]] [[second reading]] The rapporteur is a member of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Sergey Volodymyrovich Pashinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u172	Good afternoon, fellow classmates, good afternoon, honourable chairman, in 2005 we passed the Warm Supply Act, and on October 23, 2009, we adopted amendments to the law on the first reading. [[on the modernization, reconstruction and construction of supply facilities]] In short, these changes and additions regulate and enable planned modernization, the introduction of an investment element in the housing and utility sphere, which is not currently foreseen by existing legislation. These additions to the law allow thermal energy operators, mainly the Heatcommunerge, to accumulate funds in special accounts in authorized banks agreed with the Cabinet of Ministers, to collect funds received both as an investment component in the heat tariff and loans involved. The bill provides for the introduction of the concept of “technical development programme”, which is once again approved by the authorized authority and central authority in accordance with the criteria set by the Cabinet of Ministers. How do I see the need to adopt this bill? Well, first of all, everyone knows about the very difficult condition of our heat utility. Secondly, this law provides an opportunity to address the issue of accumulation and financing of these programmes. Thirdly, we have unfortunately, in legislation, for example, some 45 percent of some kind of thermal energy is produced by the Minpalevenergo business, and these issues are regulated by the National Electricity Regulatory Commission, and 55 percent by large have fallen out of the legal field, and these changes and additions to the Heat Supply Act allow us to address the issues of investment, financing. The Law also gives, the bill, the addition to the Law on Heat Supply is clearly regulated because the Law on Warm Supply provides for a system of fines for violations. He clearly regulates the procedures of these fines, forms of documents, order of access, because the facilities are complex technological objects, and the bill also takes that into account. I would like to turn and thank all the national deputies who have participated in the preparations for the second reading. A large part of the amendments were included in the second reading. Some do not, because they duplicate or repeat themselves. And I would also like to make an amendment out of my voice. Ukraine’s Ministry of Finance has issued a warning in the Law in the Final Positions that it has entered into force since its publication. The Ministry of Finance has issued a warning, and I see the need to support it that financing technical development programs can.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u173	Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u174	Funding for technical development programmes can be achieved through the use of public and local budgets, which is not taken into account in the determination of inter-budgetary transfers that have become effective since 01.01.2011. That is, from the following financial year. In principle, the law has support in all areas of expertise and I hope for your positive vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u175	Yes, the first amendment is included. Amendment two. Sergey Tereshukka, are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Third. Tereshuka. Don't insist. Four counts. Yes, Michael Volintz. There's an amendment. Sergey Tereshuka, the seventh amendment is rejected. Don't insist. Yes, Sergey Tereshuka. The eleventh amendment is rejected. Don't insist. All the amendments we've considered are based on the completion of the January 01, 2011, entry into force.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u176	No, no. That's exactly what the budget rule is about.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u177	Well, read it again, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u178	Funding for technical development programmes can be done through the use of public, local budgets, which are not taken into account in determining the amount of inter-budgetary transfers that have become effective since 1.01.2011. This is the only part that introduces this rule since 01.01, and the rest according to the text of the bill from the time of publication.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u179	Thus, the honourable colleagues will be the first, the first, the vote, the committee's proposal for adoption in the second reading and in general as a law taking into account the additions that have just been made. At the same time, if the second reading is not adopted as a whole as a law, I will put to the vote a second proposal, which is based on the General Legal Office and is that the bill requires further elaboration and re-reading. Do you accept suggestions?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u180	Yes, there is no objection from the government? I am voting on the first proposal for adoption in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Warm Supply. [[on the modernization, reconstruction and construction of thermal facilities]] [[Registration number 4765]] [[13:22:09]] For-84 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on a second motion to re-read the draft law. [[Registration number 4765]] Please vote. [[13:22:39]] For 305 Decision taken. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act on Amendments, Amendments to Article 191 of the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[concerning the delivery of a court notice]] The rapporteur is the head of the Justice Committee's subcommittee, Novikov Yulia Volodymyrna. Please, who's on the committee? So I'll work for the committee then. Where?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u181	If there's no Novikova, I will.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u182	Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u183	Yuri Carmazin, first deputy head of the committee, if not available. I'm sorry, Mrs. Catherine, so you're confused about something else. I would like to inform you that the Committee of the Supreme Council on Justice has considered the summary procedure at its meeting on 10 March 2010 as well as the draft Act amending article 191 of the Code of Civil Procedure of Ukraine concerning the delivery of a judicial notice, which states that the purpose of the draft law is to establish the right of persons who take part in the hearing of a case for receiving a court notice or a notice-of-warning notice in the event of a postponement of the case or a declaration of recess in its consideration. [[Registration number 1121]] [[carried by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Miroshnichenko]] The project aims to improve part three of article 191 of the Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code, which sets out the procedure for delaying or announcing a recess in its consideration. The official edition of the article provides that the court, while putting the case on hold, appoints a corresponding day of a new court hearing, which it is familiar with when it comes to the receipt of the trial. It is suggested that this part be supplemented by a sentence that, at the request of a person who is a party to the trial, he is given a message or a message-message. During the drafting of the law, seven proposals were made to the committee for the second reading of the law from the legal entities, which were taken into account and partially taken into account. The proposed comments relate not only to article 191 of the Ukrainian CDC, but also to article 74 of the Code, since it also provides for order, cases and terms of delivery of a court notice or message. Therefore, the Committee believes that it would be appropriate to amend part four of article 74 and part three of article 191 of the Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code, which provides that, at the request of the person who is a party to the civil trial, if the case is dismissed, a court notice is given directly to the court. The Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine made its comments to the bill on making appropriate uniform changes to Ukraine's other procedural codes on this issue, which the Committee believes may be taken into account in the consideration of other bills. In view of the above, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the draft Law amending article 191 of the Civil Procedure Code should be adopted in second reading and in whole as a bill of amendment to article 191 of the Civil Procedure Code, introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Miroshnichenko. [[concerning the delivery of a court notice]] In particular, I would like to report that this bill can reduce court costs, which is extremely important in today's budget when there is nothing to send these messages by mail. Therefore, honourable national MPs, the committee requests that the bill be adopted in second reading and in whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u184	Does the Ministry of Justice support this decision? Microphone, please. _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ The bill in question is supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u185	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the committee is proposing to adopt the bill as a law. The Ministry of Justice supports such a proposal. At the same time, there is a point made by the Chief Legal Authority. I put to the vote a motion for a committee to adopt in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Act amending article 191 of the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[concerning the delivery of a court notice]] [[Registration number 1121]] Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u186	The committee's asking for support. [[13:27:14]] For 289 The law is passed. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the issue of operating permits is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 3227]] The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship of Leapin Kseniya Mikhailnovna. Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u187	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Your opinion is proposed in Bill 3227: Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on the issue of operating permits, which was adopted on June 9, 2009. I remind you that the bill amends three laws: “On the safety and quality of food products”, “On milk and dairy products”, “On fish and other aquatic living resources and food products from them”. The Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship prepared an updated draft law for second reading by examining proposals by national deputies. The principle recognized by the world provides that the chain of government control must be inseparable with regard to food. This is the so-called chain “from rope to table”, that is, the presence of the State in the form of an official control service is carried out by one competent state authority. It controls the proper level of safety and quality in the production and processing of raw materials to the stage of the finished product including. This allows both the consumer and the business entity and the government to clearly demand responsibilities from a particular service, not to seek an extreme when several services translate responsibility to one another and the guilty cannot be found. First, Ukrainian legislation still has an unjustified duplication of functions in the exercise of State control and, accordingly, in the issue of operating permits by health and veterinary services. In doing so, current legislation requires the removal of duplication of functions of public authorities, and one of the basic principles of state policy on the issue of the liberal system in the field of economic activity is the reduction of the level of government regulation in this area. Secondly, since Ukraine has joined the WTO and has declared its desire to become a member of the European Union, there is a need to bring the entire national state control system into line with international requirements. The committee adjusted the draft in line with the current legislation in order to eliminate duplication of functions in the exercise of State control services and to ensure its continuity. Please consider the second reading and vote in an article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u188	Dear colleagues, let's go to the repairs. Amendment No. 1 is edited. Yuri Anatolyevich, do you insist on her? No, it's not. Amendment number 2. Adam Martinyuk, are you insisting on her? No, it's not. 3rd, 4th and 5th are accounted for. Amendment 6 of Adam Martinyuk. Don't insist. Amendment number seven. Eugene Kirilchuk insists on her? No, it's not. 8th, 9th, 10th and 11th counted. 12th count. 13th count. Sergei Tereshuk, 14th. Is he insisting? No, it's not. The 15th counted. 17th. Yuri Carmazin insists on it? Overruled. No, it's not. 18th, Xenia Lapina. None. Everyone has considered the amendments. What does the government say about this bill? Please, what a position. _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Politicians are asking for the support of this bill. He will allow us to bring into compliance with the Ukrainian Act on the Free System in the Field of Economic Activities, which has already been passed laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u189	At the same time, dear colleagues, I remind you that the Chief Legal Authority is proposing to re-direct the second. So, two proposals: the first, the main, is the adoption of the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the issue of operating permits. [[Registration number 3227]] I'm voting on this proposal. [[13:31:55]] For-0 The decision is not made, of course. I am betting on a second motion to re-read the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the issue of operating permits. [[Registration number 3227]] Please vote. [[13:32:27]] For 255 Decision taken. I am announcing a draft Act amending article 25 of the Ukrainian Vacation Act. [[concerning the guarantee of leave for one parent for periods of quarantine]] [[Registration number 5332]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Svetlana Alexandrovna Schmelov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u190	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! On 16 February this year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted a draft Ukrainian law amending article 25 of the "For Vacations" Act. [[concerning the guarantee of leave for one parent for periods of quarantine]] I would like to remind you that the bill provides for an amendment to article 25 of the "On Vacations" Act in order to grant one of the parents who are under 7 years of age the right to leave without saving the employee's salary for a period of quarantine. The bill included five proposals that were taken into account in whole or in part. In particular, it has been clarified among those who have the right to take the vacation — apart from their parents — that is, those who actually care for their children or who adopt their children. On March 3, this year, the Committee on Social Policy and Work reviewed the bill and decided to approve the text of a comparative table with the proposals and amendments of the Ukrainian National Deputies to the bill and to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis of article 123, paragraph 3, of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and to adopt it on second reading and in general. According to the Chief Legal Authority, a bill can be adopted in a second reading and generally as a law. Taking into account the request to accept the bill in second reading and generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u191	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the proposals are taken into account. Does the government have a note? It doesn't. The proposal of the committee, which coincides with the proposal of the General Legal Authority, namely, the adoption of the second reading and, as a whole, the bill of the draft Law amending article 25 of the Law on Vacations. [[concerning the guarantee of leave for one parent for periods of quarantine]] [[Registration number 5332]] Please vote. [[13:35:28]] For 287 The law is passed. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on improving state regulation in the area of housing. [[Registration number 2464]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Finance and Banking's subcommittee, Alexander Ivanovich Klimenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u192	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Your point is to propose a bill amending some of the Ukrainian laws on improving state regulation in the area of housing, which has been prepared by our committee for second reading. With your permission, I would like to remind you that this bill was considered in the first reading on March 17, last year. Such a long term is due primarily to the fact that, if you remember, at the end of 2008 and 2009, we passed two bills that would improve the work of builders who could channel the necessary funds to rebuild the sector, and this was the bill that was adopted as Law No. 692 and Law No. 800. I would like to point out that, in our opinion, it is not least because of these legislative acts that we have succeeded in creating instruments at the legislative level that would allow us to keep the building sector from final destruction. And it is this area of the economic system of Ukraine, which has suffered the most in terms of financial decline to 50, that almost 50 percent of the objects have been frozen and lost in actual construction in this area. I would like to say that the construction volumes in 2008 were compared to the construction volumes in 2003. Instead, to my profound conviction, we, as the legislative body, must first develop a legal field and lay the legislative foundation for rebuilding the building industry. This bill proposes to settle the same legal spheres as the anti-crisis laws that I mentioned. In some places, however, it responds to similar legislative acts in some respects and develops them. So when we were redesigning the second reading, we had to go over every position of the bill in detail, because some of them, we're already valid, some of them have lost their relevance. We also analyzed the results of applying the two anti-crisis laws in the area of construction, which the necessary changes have been made, and we also worked together with the relevant regional policy committees, construction, and the Minregonbud, which we are very grateful for, and also the authors of the government development bill were, as well as the State Commissions in the area of financial services, the National Bank of Ukraine, the Professional Building Committee. I would like to say that our committee supports and asks you to support this bill in a second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u193	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u194	I'm sorry, I'd like to add that there's also no reference from the Legal Office to this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u195	Let's do some repairs. Amendment number 3. Yuri Carmazin. Are you insisting on her, Yuri Anatolyovich? No, it doesn't. Correction 6th. Are you insisting on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u196	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank the committee for its thorough consideration and for my particular amendments, and most of all their consideration. But there's obviously been some technical error on the committee, I think, after my sixth amendment. Why? Part three, “The disputes arising from the increase in investment activity shall be dealt with accordingly by a court or arbitral tribunal”. Carmazin suggests that it be written: “The disputes arising from the investment activity are resolved by the court. ” And put a dot on it. I'm told that "refused" and motivation is now limited by the authorization of the arbitral courts. Thank you, darlings, but I'm telling you as the first deputy head of the committee that's limited, and I'm telling you, take this off about the arbitral ones, and you're writing to me: reject my amendment. You're writing a stupid letter, so you're going to fix it, please tell me you technically wrote what you rejected. And take your time when Carmazin offers, he thinks 10 times when he signs the document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u197	Dear colleagues. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u198	Thank you, Your Honor, Yuri Anatolyovich. In this bill, it's the only amendment you've made that's been rejected, and they've all been counted, one of them has been counted, but editorially. I would also like you to respect the work of our committee, as well as the professional representatives you mentioned, who have been directly involved in drafting this bill. With respect to the arbitral courts. We all know that there are certain limitations. And if compared to the courts, there is a general prohibition on arbitral tribunals if these disputes relate to real estate. So when we say that we translate all of this into court decisions, if the arbitral courts are still going to make property decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u199	One minute, give me a chance. Yuri Anatolyevich, we know the truth, give us a chance.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u200	Dear head, I ask you to put this amendment to the vote if the hall supports. I got it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u201	Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you, let's listen and hear from each other. The point is that Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin simply suggests that “the disputes arising from the investment activity are resolved by the court.” The committee proposes to leave: “to be tried by a court or arbitral tribunal”. At the same time, the argument on the non-support of the offer by Yuri Carmazin reads: “Refused, now the powers of the arbitral courts are limited.” So let's write "court," which is this court, the main thing for it to act legally. Is there no objection? So I'm voting on Yuri Carmazin's proposal, and I'd like to ask her to support it. Please vote. [[13:42:44]] For-96 Correction not supported. Let's move on. Amendment of Yuri Carmazin 49 on page 18. Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u202	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I think you'll think about it and you'll understand that where Carmazin suggested that we rule out "third courts" of the word. And as for those who shout that I am there “in retaliation”, I would not want us to adopt laws to someone “in retaliation”, we are adopting laws for the people of Ukraine. I don't want to call the author of the screamer, let him be ashamed. With regard to Amendment 49, I propose in the Ukrainian Advertising Act to add part one to article 26 with the following paragraph: “The National Bank of Ukraine, on advertising banking activities.” This is about monitoring the enforcement of advertising legislation. You know, how important, people, how many times have they been in situations where banks have been doing this kind of illegal commercial in violation of everything. The National Bank would have the right to control it because it comes out of the National Bank Act. Thank you, I'd like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u203	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u204	Thank you. Dear Yuri Anatolyovich, about your previous amendment. Under constitutional requirements, we can't restrict citizens to any court, and that's why I've just proposed the editorial. It's about Amendment 49. Unfortunately, it does not apply specifically to this bill and we cannot do so in this bill, because it concerns the financing mechanisms and improving them to propose to the Central Bank that it assumes the responsibility that is already foreseen in the 54th article of the Banking and Banking Act. Those warnings are, and they are included in this law. And Nazbank of Ukraine, he's already entitled to apply the measures of influence to those banks that they're offering, or non-refundable advertising, or who are doing their work for the benefit of one or the other institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u205	Dear colleagues, at the same time, I am voting on Amendment 49 of Yuri Karmazin. [[13:45:34]] For-39 The decision is not taken. All other amendments, your honor, are included. The committee proposes to accept it as a law in the second reading as a whole. The main legal office is in solidarity with the committee’s decision. Please, what does the government say about this? Will you support me? The government also supports. _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ It's a government bill. The request of honourable deputies to support.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u206	Dear colleagues, a second reading committee proposal is put to the vote as a bill of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve state regulation in the area of housing. [[Registration number 2464]] Please vote. [[13:46:41]] For 288 The law is passed. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending the Criminal Enforcement Code of Ukraine (to remove restrictions on the receiving of the convicted consignments (transmissions) and Banderoles). The reporter is Gretzak Vasil Mikolaiovich. The Committee's conclusion is to withdraw the bill from consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u207	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! I think it is necessary to remind that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted on January 21st the Act of Ukraine amending the Criminal Enforcement Code on the protection of the rights of convicted persons in institutions for the execution of sentences, which provides for a comprehensive amendment to the Criminal Code of Ukraine aimed at humanizing our criminal enforcement system and implementing the European Convention on Fundamental Rights of Human and Civil Rights. Among other things, the law removes restrictions on the receipt of convicted packages, transmissions, and Banderoles. This law, signed by the President of Ukraine on February 05, 2010, became effective. So a bill submitted by the Zarubinsky People’s Deputy has lost its relevance. The committee considered this issue and asked the Supreme Council of Ukraine to withdraw the bill from consideration. Know from the examination.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u208	Dear colleagues! I will now put to the vote a motion for a committee to withdraw from the bill registration number 4190. Please. Cancelling the Bill's Adoption Order. ( [[Noise Nodes]] Dear colleagues, let's do this now. I'll put it to a vote on the approval of the law, the draft law as a law. The Supreme Council, if it doesn't support it, will be automatically rejected. That's it. That's why I'm voting on the adoption of the draft law, like the Law on Amendments to the Criminal Enforcement Code of Ukraine, to remove restrictions on the receiving of illegal shipments, transfers and Banderoles. [[Registration number 4190]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:49:35]] For-43 The decision is not supported. The bill was rejected. Registration number 4190. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act on the Strengthening of Responsibility for the Implementation of Minors and the Illicit Implementation of Alcoholic Drinks and Tobacco Products. [[Registration number 4784]] The rapporteur is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement activities, Prokopchuk Yuri Volodymyrovich. Who will report from the committee? The committee made that decision. I'm bringing you to your acquaintance. To recognize that it has become invalid, the decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 3 December 2009 on the adoption on the basis of the draft Act on the Strengthening of Responsibility for the Implementation of Minors and the Illegal Implementation of Alcoholic Drinks and Tobacco Products, in view of its loss of relevance and to withdraw the bill from consideration. Please, Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u209	Dear colleagues! It's too bad there's no one on the committee. I should probably go to work with the members of the committee. It's a very resonant and up-to-date issue that we've decided with you, well, in part, we've decided, by adopting the 1171 bill in almost 400 votes. Since February 11, we have rules that prohibit the sale of alcoholic, underalcoholic, beer by the age of 18. We have also put in place administrative and other sanctions for drinking and selling. The committee concluded, therefore, that the Ariev bill regulates the standards that have already been approved by you. The other thing is, of course, we have to keep going and make this more difficult. But there's no point in this bill. Because we've already settled this issue with Bill 1171, which is signed by the President and operates in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u210	Dear colleagues! Then I will similarly put to the vote a proposal for adoption in the second reading and generally as a law. The Supreme Council is to be determined. If it doesn't, the law will be rejected. In view of the fact that the law is already governed by the law in force. No objections? There's no other way out. I'm voting on the second reading and, as a whole, as a law, a bill to strengthen responsibility for the implementation of minors and the illegal implementation of alcoholic beverages and tobacco products. [[Registration number 4784]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:52:34]] For two. The bill was rejected. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending article 52 of the Ukrainian Law on Economic Societies. [[about size of capital]] [[Registration number 34 88-1]] The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy Yuri Mikolayovich Voropeyev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u211	I would like to remind you, my fellow Members, that, while we have considered this bill with you, until the time comes, and they intended to reduce the amount of the statutory fund, the minimum size, from 100 minimum wages to 15 minimum wages, you and I have adopted another bill in this room in December, which was determined by the size of the minimum amount of the statutory fund. in the amount of one minimum wage. In this way, we have already settled this issue. The bill was signed by the President and entered into force on 30 December, number 1759. Therefore, the need for this bill has no longer been adopted. The Committee suggests that it be rejected and left without consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u212	Dear colleagues, let's do this in a similar way. I'll put it to a second reading vote and generally as a law. The Supreme Council will determine if it does not support, the law will be rejected. No objections? I'm voting on the second reading proposal and, as a whole, the bill of the draft Act amending article 52 of the Ukrainian Law on Economic Societies. [[about size of capital]] [[Registration number 34 88-1]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:54:31]] For the The bill was rejected. [[Registration number 34 88-1]] I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Code of Administrative Judiciality of Ukraine. [[second reading]] Who will report from the committee? Yuri Anatolyevich of the Justice Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u213	George Carmazin, first deputy chairman of the committee. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice reviewed protocol No. 58 of its meeting on March 31, 2010, in its second reading, to amend certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Code of Administrative Justice, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[Registration number 2213]] [[of 13.03.2008]] The project aims to implement the laws of Ukraine on freedom of conscience and religious organizations, on all-Ukrainian and local referendums, on the Prosecutor's Office, on the status of war veterans, on guarantees of their social protection, on the judiciary of expertise, on the State Reserve, on State Support for the Media and Social Protection of Journalists, on the Implementation of Implementation, on the State Secret, on State Social Assistance to Fewly Provided Families, on the Political Parties in Ukraine, on the Refugees, on the Income Tax of Persons, on the Provision of Creditors and on the Registration of Liabilities, on the Protection of Social Morality, on the Election of the President of Ukraine, on the Election of National Deputies of Ukraine, on the Provision of Credits and the Registration of Women's Laws Codes and on the Jurisdiction of the Judiciary. It should be noted that, on 13 January 2009, by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decree to amend certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Justice, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, was adopted on the basis of and mandated by the Supreme Council Committee on Justice to finalize the proposed bill, taking into account the comments and proposals made by subjects of the law of the legislative initiative and to bring it to the attention of the Supreme Council in a second reading. [[No. 843-6]] A comparative table was prepared by the Committee of the Supreme Council for this draft law. At a meeting of the Supreme Council's Committee on Justice on February 18, 2009, during the discussion of proposals and amendments to the draft law, the members of the Committee on Justice decided to recommend to the Supreme Council a second reading bill, as a whole, but with the need for further amendments and additions to the laws of Ukraine, the provisions of which relate to the draft law. In order to avoid comments by the Supreme Council's Chief Legal Authority, which could be the reason for the rejection of draft Law No. 2213 at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee on Justice referred to the Chief Legal Authority for a preliminary review of the comparative table and for making appropriate amendments. The main legal administration of its letter of 30 March 2009 made its proposals to this project. The Committee examines the amendments and observations that have been made: they are all correct and are intended to bring the bill into line with the Constitution of Ukraine, the Code of Administrative Justice and other laws. It should be noted, however, that while suggestions are appropriate, most of them make changes and add to articles that have not been considered in a bill that has been accepted as a basis. But without taking into account the amendments that have been made, the adoption of the bill in the form that was considered at the Justice Committee's meeting will be unsuspecting and the goal will not be achieved. More than that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u214	Dear colleagues, we will now proceed. There's an offer. We still have two bills left in our second reading. If you didn't mind, we'd be looking at them at the morning session, which means we'd continue our work for 15 minutes. Now, Yuri Anatoliyevich, please finish the argument. Is there no objection? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u215	Moreover, following the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the election of the President of Ukraine, of 21.08.2009, the amendment of the Ukrainian Law on Elections, which is also covered by Bill 2213, will lead to even greater disagreement. In addition, the Committee prepares for consideration in the Supreme Council in its second reading a draft Act amending certain legislative acts, 2782, which provides for a new edition of the Act on Enforcement. In addition, Project No 2213 also proposes to amend the Implementation Act, which does not correspond to Project Registration No 2782. At the same time, all the proposals and amendments made to the draft Law were withdrawn by the legal entities in connection with the need for a more thorough project for consideration by the Supreme Council. [[Registration number 2213]] Taking into account what has been said, the Committee on Justice decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine, registration number 2213 of March 13. Therefore, honourable national MPs, given that we have already made decisions today, where the Rules and other laws were cut down, I would ask for this bill to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u216	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the proposal for acceptance in the second reading and in general as a law is put to the vote, and the Supreme Council has to decide on this proposal. So I propose the adoption of a second reading and generally as a bill of the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine. [[Registration number 2213]] I'd like to make a statement. [[14:00:44]] For-0 The bill was rejected. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending the Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection. [[on first-line free car insurance for disabled persons of war]] [[Registration number 5229]] The rapporteur is Head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons Valeriy Mihajlovich Suškević. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u217	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, in fact, we are looking at the bill today in the second reading, it refers to the provision, the first-line provision for disabled people at war. Of course, I would like to see him accepted by May 9. But he is also present today, of course. I want to say that, according to the profile committee, in the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons, virtually all amendments are taken into account by the exclusion of one, whose adoption may be reduced by the possibility of using disabled cars. Actually, I've got everything. I propose to pass the law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u218	Amendment number 7 Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin. Yuri Anatolyovich, do you insist on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u219	Yuri Carmazin. In principle, I think that Ukraine should produce its own cars, as well as its own airplanes. So, of course, it would be better if we provided these cars that were actually made in Ukraine. The amendment referred to the word “produced in Ukraine”. But if we have a government, a president, all the others, the Supreme Council doesn't drive their own cars, obviously, and in the case of the disabled, it doesn't need this amendment right now, so far it's not on time. So I don't insist on voting on this amendment. And it also amends the 10 "Principal Regulations" that it takes effect on 1 January 2011. It'd better be from the moment it's published. So I said seventh and tenth, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u220	Thank you. So the revisions are off. I'm on my way. What's the correction? Oh, from the committee, Valery Suškević, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u221	I just want to give an explanation for the seventh amendment, why it was rejected by the committee. The point is that there is State service according to the legislation of cars issued by both the state and those purchased by the disabled. And so if we write down Yuri Anatoliovich, your amendment, then we're going to reject the service of those cars that are being used and bought by the disabled themselves. I see. Thank you, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u222	Amendments 7 and 10 were withdrawn, and he refused. Adam Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u223	Dear colleagues! I asked for the reasons for the vote, which is why. Remember, we fought in this session hall for a long time, and I think not only I do, but each of you has a lot of letters from the disabled, but more specifically from the disabled families who had cars at their disposal and which the state couldn't leave them for free. So if we adopt this law, and I hope that we will adopt it today, and I thank the committee that unanimously supported it, that with the adoption of this law, every car that remains in the family of a disabled person who has gone out of life will now remain in the family free of charge. That's the first one. And the second. Thank you, too, to the colleague of Carmazin, who agreed to withdraw the tenth amendment, we also propose that this law take effect from the time of its publication. Thus, with respect to the disabled, and more specifically to the families of the disabled, who have suffered grief, that the one who owned the car and left life, I hope the law will be passed, signed, and you will have a major problem in this regard. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u224	No other warnings? Peter Cibenko, with a motive, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u225	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Organization Council Dear colleagues! I ask you to support this bill with two motives. First of all, because it is the main purpose of the bill, the provision of war on persons with disabilities from the number of persons who participated directly in the fighting during the Great Homeland War and the war with Japan, the availability of medical evidence for car security, the right to free car security, I stress, first of all, the number of extracurriculars in the order established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And the second motive that works for the adoption of this document, what Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk said, is indeed an extremely important problem. This problem is extremely common in the organizations of disabled veterans of Ukraine, in other words, the families of these disabled people. So I would ask my colleague to support this document, and it is extremely timely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u226	Honourable National Deputies, I am voting on the proposal of the Second reading Committee and, as a whole, as a law, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection. [[on first-line free car insurance for disabled persons of war]] [[Registration number 5229]] Please vote. [[14:06:57]] For 301 The law is passed. I am announcing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Rehabilitation of Victims of Political Repression in Ukraine. [[on the status of those who suffered political repression as a child]] [[Registration number 5040]] The rapporteur is the head of the Human Rights Committee subcommittee, the national minorities of the international relations of Yuri Vasilovich Gnatkevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u227	Dear colleagues, this bill was discussed on our committee and it was recommended that it be adopted in a second reading, and generally. But I would like to say a few things, first of all, there's an extremely large number of letters coming to the committee where people are asking to adopt this bill. Second, my dear colleagues, I reiterate that the bill applies only to the children of rehabilitated parents. That is, not all those who sat, but children who were rehabilitated by the state. And rehabilitated people do, because last time he was looking at a little bit in the political plane, they were also accused of nationalism and revisionism and Trotskyism. And last but not least, according to the Ministry, there were about 9,000 such children today. It's just that I'm surprised at the low level of activity of our deputies in the final call, but there are only two proposals, and these are important proposals that I have made. This proposal refers to the term where we have replaced the word “eviction” with the word “department”, in exile, expulsion, that is to say, we agree on the term that exists today in current legislation. And the second proposal is to adopt, to put into effect, not as of January 1, 10, because it is already the past, but as of January 1, 11. And we've also continued, and I've suggested that we continue the recommendation of the Cabinet of Ministers to align this law with its government acts, not within two months, but within three months. So there are only two amendments that I have made to this bill. The committee's proposal to accept it in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u228	Dear colleagues, the committee proposes to adopt in the second reading and generally as a bill of law. [[Registration number 5040]] A number of comments were made by the Chief Legal Authority. I am voting on the first proposal for adoption in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Rehabilitation of Victims of Political Repression in Ukraine, please vote. [[on the status of those who suffered political repression as a child]] [[Registration number 5040]] [[2:10:08]] For 124 The decision is not taken. I am voting for a second reading to take into account the comments of the General Legal Office. Please vote. Registration number 5040. [[14:10:35]] For 272 Decision taken. Thank you, you. Dear colleagues, here was an offer, one minute, to look at the issues that were left that we had not considered scheduled for Tuesday, and then the rest of the time to work on the committees. But since this is about a regulatory decision, I can put this proposal to the vote because it's about three bills, and the rest is about inclusion in the agenda. And if we are included in the agenda, we do not have the right to consider in the same session, that is, for the next period. There are no warnings about such an offer? How do you feel? I will then put to the vote the proposal to continue the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine until the completion of the consideration of the issues set out in the schedule for Tuesday, May 11. Please vote. [[14:11:53]] For 271 Decision taken. So, your honors, we are now going to consider the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Emancipation of Victory in the Great Homeland War of 1941-1945. [[on the order in which copies of the Victory Flag are officially used]] Registration number 4355. Reporter: Cibenko Peter Stepanovich. What? It's the first reading. Please, if I have a reduced procedure, I will put this motion to the vote to consider Bill 4355 as a reduced procedure. According to the Rules, every bill should be considered by a reduced procedure. Vote for consideration. [[14:12:43]] For 202 Decision taken. And one more thing, the honourable national deputies, I will inform you that the next session will be the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, because at 2.30 p.m., there will be a meeting of the Council of the Regions in which I need to participate. Don't think I went to lunch.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u229	Please, Peter Stepanovich, report. Count 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u230	Thank you, Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, Head of the Ukrainian Veterans Organization. Dear colleagues, taking advantage of the fact that we're considering this bill right now on May 11th, it's probably right when I welcome once again with the famous date of the 65th anniversary of Ukraine's liberation from the fascist invaders and victory in the Great War. Veteranism, first of all, is a low creak, eternal memory, glory to the liberators who, with weapons in their hands, protected the freedom of our country and the workers of the back who worked hard to win. I would like to remind you that this bill was considered on February 16th and was not supported, but in exchange, a group of colleagues were introduced to replace this bill, and it was considered by the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons as a professional committee. And a decision has been made to support this document on the basis. And the committee also decided that if, in paragraph 1 of the draft law, the words “the Soviet people” were replaced by “the people of the Soviet Union” in paragraph 2 of the draft law, they would recommend the adoption of the document as a whole. It is said that this document proposes to regulate the practice of using the Victory Flag in events related to the Great Homeland War, particularly on May 9. Therefore, I would like to ask my distinguished colleagues, considering that we have decided on a shorter procedure for considering this document, to support this document. That's what we're gonna give up. The memory of those who have won the Fascism and the practice of using the Victory Flag will be put in place by the legislative system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u231	Thank you, thank you. Fellow dignitaries, Peter Stepanovich reported in two hypotheses, both as one of the drafters of the bill, and as responsible for the profile committee. That's why. Please, is there a need to discuss? Nobody insists?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u232	If they do not insist, then, with your permission, the bill under number 4355 of the Bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Emancipation of Victory in the Great War of 1941-1945 is put to the vote. [[on the order in which copies of the Victory Flag are officially used]] Please vote. [[14:16:16]] For 215 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 159, “Block of Timoshenko” – 7, “Our Ukraine” – 1, Communists – 27, “Block of Lithuania” – 19, non-fractional – 2. There is a motion for a return to the vote. Yes, please, I am putting to the vote a motion for a return to the vote on this matter for a vote on this bill. Please vote. [[14:17:08]] For 218. Please, by the factions. Region Party – 169, “Block of Timoshenko” – 0, “Our Ukraine” – 1st Communist – 27, “Block of Lithuania” – 19, “non-fractional” – 2. The decision is not taken. Bill number 2692 is under consideration, namely the draft Act amending the Law on Television and Radio Broadcasting on the Elimination of Conflicts between the Act on Cinematography and the Law on Television and Radio Television. Reported to Bondarenko Olena Anatoliyevna, head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u233	Short cut?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u234	You decided to feel sorry for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u235	Who, in order to consider the bill further under the reduced procedure, please vote. [[14:18:19]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u236	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear Adam Ivanovich! This bill aims to eliminate conflicts between two laws: the Television and Radio Act and the Film Act. In the Film Act, there is now a rule that foreign films are not to be distributed and demonstrated in Ukraine if they are not duplicated or unrecorded or not subtitled in Ukrainian. And here's an important edition of the Television and Radio Act that only solves this issue by sound duplication. This is a problem for our radio channel. And so, given the decision of the Constitutional Court, which was adopted on 20.12.2008 in the case of national MPs on the official interpretation of the provisions of the Act on Cinematography, namely that foreign films can be distributed and demonstrated in Ukraine if they are duplicated or sounded or subtitled in Ukrainian, there is a logical need to introduce this standard into television. The main task of the proposed bill is to improve the legal mechanism for the broadcasting of foreign films and programs. The implementation of the bill does not require amendments to other laws, nor will it require additional costs from the State Budget of Ukraine. That's why I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u237	Thank you. I'm also informing you that there's been a report and a report from the committee. Because the author still represents a profile committee. Please sit down. There is a need to discuss. So, I see they're raising their hands. Please, two for, two for. Yes, please, colleague Baldwin. Prepare for Paris. Microphone from the spot. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u238	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, I think we have completely wasted our discussions because there is a decision of the Constitutional Court that we should simply implement into this law by enacting a law to amend. So there's nothing to discuss. I suggest we vote now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u239	Thank you. It's a very wise offer, but you didn't have to sign up for the speech. Please, Parish. None. School. The committee reported because the author and representative of the committee. Please, School.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u240	Thank you. I'm very brief because I want to give the word to one of our factions. I would like to emphasise that, of course, you can destroy the Ukrainian language -- that's your right. I realize that it is easier to destroy the language than to learn to speak it. This is your right, please, this is your right. But believe me, every nation has the right to defend its rights. Please don't provoke civil opposition in Ukraine, you're doing everything you can to get national resistance here, stop it. Thank you. Please pass the word to Shewchenkov Andry.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u241	Not a word, but please, Shevchenko, one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u242	Thank you, colleagues. Look, let's get to the point very practical. I have a daughter, she's 5 years old. She likes, for example, the "Takka" cartoon. This bill, if it becomes law, has no chance of seeing this beautiful film in Ukrainian. I'll explain what practice is now. If you're on Ukrainian television, for example, an American movie or a French movie. The only way he can get on the air or take off when there's a Ukrainian duplicate. What is proposed? This film, if it was already duplicated in Russia, can be shown in Ukraine with one small line of subtitles, which means that, for example, my daughter's chances of seeing this video in Ukrainian are zero. The other one. We were not told about another novelty of this law, which relates to what is proposed by a license for television and radio companies to take a position like language. Although we know that only legislation regulates language issues and so forth. You know, we had one very valuable thing in the hall. We have tried for many years not to bring into the hall questions that clearly divide the hall, clearly divide the country. This is true of the language bills. So I propose not to support this bill. I'm sure it'll hurt Ukrainian television, Ukrainian cinema. And I'm sure he's opening up the hall and opening up society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-11-m0.u243	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. I am voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act. [[on the elimination of contradictions between the Ukrainian Film Act and the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act]] Bill number 2692. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:23:57]] For 168 The decision is not taken. Here we go to the draft bill of the Law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code in connection with Ukraine’s accession to the Convention on Temporary Imports. [[No. 4646]] The author of the bill is Katerinczuk Mikola Dmitrovic. You don't? Then the co-rapporteur of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Kostin Anatoliyovich. Nor is it. If you don't mind, dear colleagues, I'll introduce you to the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy and we'll be determined. The Committee of People’s Deputies, Teryochina, Bondarev and others proposes a draft Act amending the Customs Code of Ukraine in connection with Ukraine’s accession to the Convention on Temporary Imports, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies, Catherinechuk, Kondratuk, Hermann, Heraszczenko, to refer to the Committee of the Supreme Council on Tax and Customs Policy for the preparation of the first reading. [[Registration number 4646]] Here's a proposal from the committee. But I'll put them in order of arrival. First, I put to the vote the bill’s authors’ proposal: to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code in connection with Ukraine’s accession to the Convention on Temporary Imports. Bill No. 4646. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:25:57]] For-35 The decision is not supported. The proposal for a profile committee is put to the vote: To be sent to the committee for re-reading. Please vote. [[14:26:26]] For 270. Decision taken. We're going to the profile committee for processing. And we have a few questions left, dear colleagues. I think we'll get through them soon. This is the chapter “To be included in the agenda of the day session”. It is proposed to include in the agenda of the day's session a draft Regulation on certain issues of budgeting in 2010. Bill number 6338. Please vote. [[14:27:13]] For 212 Please, by the factions. Region Party – 163, Timoshenko Block – 0, “Our Ukraine” – 1, Communists – 27, “Block of Lithuania” – 19, “Afterfractional” - 2. Yeah, no suggestions? Yes, then, please consider the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on licensing for certain types of economic activity, Bill No. 6153 on inclusion in the agenda. Vote. [[14:28:05]] For 272 Decision taken. And the bill is voted on by the registration number 6214 and 6214-2, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Basic Principles for State Oversight in the Field of Economic Activity. [[on the reconciliation of individual positions]] Please vote. On the inclusion of these bills in the agenda of the day session. [[14:28:47]] For-286 Decision taken. So, dear colleagues, you and I have fully implemented the agenda set for today, May 11. I thank you all for your work, including your support. The morning session of the Supreme Council is closed. According to our decision, we work on committees. I'll start work tomorrow at 10 o'clock.
