ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u1	Dear National Deputies! Please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:01:45.]] Registered in the 405 National Deputies Sessional Hall, they were registered with cards. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues! At a cancer session, you and I decided to include in the agenda and to consider at the evening session of the draft Energy Conservation Regulation Act. And at the same time, we're going to need to consider the draft of the Law on Emission Control and Control and Adsorption by Greenhouse Gas. Right? We're going to look at them consistently, first the draft Energy Conservation Regulation Act is registration number 7231, and then the draft Law on the Control and Control of Emissions and Adsorption of Greenhouse Gas. [[Registration number 4750, 5166]] It's okay, isn't it? Is there no objection? Under the reduced procedure, or how will we consider it? I'm voting on the motion to consider these issues on a reduced basis, please vote. [[16:03:19]] For 202 Decision taken. The reporter is Yuchim Leonidovich Zviagilski. Mikola Martinenko and Anatoly Seminoga spokesmen are committee heads.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u2	Deeply respected Vladimir Mihajlovich, deeply respected people's deputies! Under the Kyoto Protocol, Ukraine was entitled to sell 2.4 billion tonnes of conditional emissions by 2012. Ukraine is not alone in this market, Russia has only come to this market and it will take more than 25 per cent of the market for the next two years. Second. In the current situation, there is a need to establish an internal system of enterprise emission rights, to organize emission accounting, to improve the destructive system, and to create an effective domestic trading market for emission rights units. Third. The resolution in this area is implemented exclusively by the Cabinet of Ministers, and there are about 20 regulations. There are no rules at the legislative level. In eight years, there is still no law in Ukraine to regulate emission reductions. Fourth. The Kyoto Protocol is limited in time. There is therefore a legislative need to regulate legal relations in this area. The purpose of the bill is to harmonize Ukrainian legislation with European legislation; the second is to establish an emission allowance accounting system; the third is to create an internal market for emission reduction units; and the fourth is to establish a Ukrainian emissions trading system.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u3	Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u4	the Kyoto period, from 2012 to 2020. Adaptation of the emission market to the European market and to markets in other countries. Dear colleagues, we need to integrate ourselves as quickly as possible into the international emissions trading system. To that end, it was necessary to harmonize Ukrainian legislation with international objectives. This will help our businesses, our Ukrainian enterprises, to enter the international market as well as foreign companies to come to our market. The faster we get into the international emissions trading risk system, the greater our investment in our economy will be. Dear colleagues! In view of the foregoing, I ask you to support our Bill 7231 as a basis and in the first reading. We must not miss our chance to modernize Ukraine's economy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u5	Yes, thank you, Yuhim Leonidovich. Mikola Volodymyrovich Martinenko, head of the committee, please make the decision of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u6	Dear colleagues! The profile committee reviewed Bill 7231 and received a positive assessment. We've come from the fact that the Kyoto Protocol's implementation results in, among other things, investment in increasing energy efficiency in the economy, the cost of using non-traditional and renewable energy sources for the production of heat and electricity for the transition to energy-saving technologies in all areas from industry to life. 80 percent of greenhouse gas emissions are known to occur in the fuel and energy sectors of the economy. Therefore, energy subjects will be more likely to use the economic mechanisms provided for in the Kyoto Protocol than others. This bill recognizes the companies of the fuel and energy complex as operators of installations that will have special accounts in the national register. Most of them are creating a system of trade, a circle of greenhouse waste rights, which is implemented by the bill. One of the very positive aspects of the bill, and one that is conveniently isolated from other texts, is the possibility of applying it not only within the scope of the Kyoto Protocol, but also later. Most of the countries that have signed the Kyoto Protocol have already developed legislation on its implementation. With the adoption of this bill, Ukraine will cooperate with them, also having a normal law, not numerous legal acts. In view of this, the committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u7	Thank you, too, sit down, please. Who will speak from the Committee on Environmental Policy? Glazonov Sergey Mikolaiovich? Please, Secretary of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u8	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! A committee on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster reviewed the draft of the Ukrainian Energy Regulatory Act, authored by the National Deputies Martinenko, Shevchuk and Zweigilski. [[No. 7231]] For its purpose and content, the bill does not address energy conservation issues but attempts to identify the legal and organizational bases for preventing and mitigating the effects of climate change and greenhouse gas emissions foreseen in the Kyoto Protocol. In line with legislation, the acidified issues are referred solely to the area of responsibility and knowledge of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster. Such a discrepancy in the title of the bill led, in fact, to a violation of Ukrainian legislation in part of changes and subjects of committee knowledge and recognition of the committee responsible for passing the bill. This is also emphasized by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. In order to say that the adoption of the law as proposed would pose a threat to the economy of the State, including the possibility of banning the use of certain technologies, such as the rule on the possibility of involving the National Environmental Investment Agency of a legal person to conduct a national cadastra and a national register can be carried out by the agency itself. Part of the functions are translated by the national agency into local authorities. The possibility of creating commercial enterprises is anticipated. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, in its conclusion on the seven pages, made its observations. And twice in its conclusion, he proposes to take the basis of the draft Law on the Control and Control of Emissions and Adsorption by Greenhouse Gas Absorption Number 4750. The committee proposes to reject Ukraine’s draft Energy Savings Act No. 7231, introduced by the people’s deputies Martinenko, Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u9	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u10	On the basis of the adoption of the draft Law on the Control and Management of Emissions and Adsorption by Greenhouse Gas sinks and the second reading of the draft Law on the Control and Management of Emissions and Adsorption by Greenhouse Gas sinks, take into account the individual provisions of Law 7231. [[Registration number 4750]] Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u11	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, let us now listen to the report on Bills 4750 and 5166, and then discuss them together. Ukrainian National Deputy Vladimir Petrovich Skoubenko, please, and then Sergey Pashinsky. Sergei Volodymyrovich Pashinsky, please prepare for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u12	Dear colleagues, Law 4750 has been in the Supreme Council for a year. The battle over this bill goes unscrupulous, you understand. And I just want to focus on a little bit between the laws. In spite of all the terminology that exists, it all coincides with the structure of the bill. There is only one difference: in the bill that we are proposing together: the Glazunov MP, Deputy Daych, Skoubenko and Deputy Danilenko of the Communist Party, there is a state position. We only propose that there be a state-owned enterprise under the Nazi regime that will use public products to regulate trade in quotas. The project, which had been proposed by the authors before, had provided for the establishment of a commercial structure that would deal with the registry, registry and quota trading. What is it? So if I take a report from the National Agency today in the first half of the year that I took, I can read from it one sentence on the registry. You know, before we trade, we have to keep a record of what we're trading. And here's the register, I quote: "it's in working condition in the territory and using software and technical support for ZAT Software" over the reporting period." You remember everything well, I'll remind you of all the stories with the solicitation room. You remember there's this Softline all over the place. That's the difference between two laws. Two bills. In that bill, proposed by Deputy Glazunok, Dach, me and Deputy Danilenko, we propose the establishment of a State structure of the National Authority, beneath which is a state-owned subsidiary, which itself maintains a register and distributes these funds. This is a multi-million-dollar investment that the State has today. And the second bill, which had been considered earlier, which implied the possibility of establishing a private commercial structure, which would be on a private programme product, to trade quotas on private terms. As a result, you and I will have all the money that we received in Japan today, for example, already will be distributed through this private company, distributed in those regions, in your districts. Now, today, 246 people in the heat of the school, or the very hospitals that are already being converted by this money, will be equipped without your participation, without your information, it will be equipped all the way, so to speak, with small tools. Therefore, I very much ask that you take a closer look at the recommendations of the Scientific and Expert Office, which I can read out to you under the draft of the previous 7231, which clearly speaks. “According to the fact that a bill 4750 is under consideration in the Supreme Council, the Chief Executive recommends that these two bills be merged and that a single bill be drafted on the basis of positive draft laws. [[Which I now represent.]] At the same time, I would like this one project to be done on the Committee on Environmental Affairs, a committee of profile rather than on the committee on the TEC, in which, after changing the title of the bill, within one week, the environmental investment bill has become an energy-saving, TEC committee. There's been a very quick negotiation and a bed on the Supreme Council table today, you see. Well, there's no politics here. There is clearly a common attitude towards our government costs and environmental investments, which, if you will excuse me, are very few. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u13	You all have it, don't you? Thank you. Dear colleagues! Sergei Volodymyrovich Pashinsky, please. No, I refused. Sergey Mikolaiovich Glazunov reported that there is no need to report on the two bills. Isn't it, Sergey Mikolayovich? Do you have anything else to say? Please refer to these bills, if any, and if accentuated.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u14	I'd like to say one thing in order not to waste time. That the draft of the Law on the Control and Control of Emissions and Adsorption by Greenhouse Gas sinks, 4750, well, was reviewed four times and the work was very difficult. I'd like to say there were three bills. That's what they said. This is Bill 4750 Scubenko, Pashinski 5166, and it was also Bill Shevchuk 5422. The committee considered them. Before these bills, there were many comments from the scientific think tank and the committee's comments. And the committee decided, on the basis of the three bills, to make one bill, to take into account all the observations and the scientific and expert centre, as well as all the observations given by ministries and offices. So I propose, on behalf of the committee, to support Bill 4750 by taking it as a basis. That is also the view of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the activities of the Supreme Council. The Chief Research Administration recommends the adoption of the 4750 bill as a basis. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u15	Thank you. Please sit down. Dear colleagues! Please sign up for the bill, registration number 7231, 4750, 5166. For discussion. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the board. Evening, faction of the Party of Regions, please. Microphone or from the rostrum. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u16	Evening, Party of Regions. Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished people's deputies, respected citizens of Ukraine, Europe today and Ukraine for the development of the Kyoto Agreements. And the bill, which is number 7231, I am asking to take as a basis, to adopt it on first reading, in the Committee on the TEC to finalize and look at the rational proposal of the bill 4750, and to merge it on the basis of 7232, because there are real things that contribute to the development of the Ukrainian economy. And what it says is that some commercial structures are replacing the government structure, it's completely wrong. It is therefore necessary to study fully. And I would like to recall that the Kyoto Agreements in Ukraine were legitimized in 2007 when members of the European Parliament arrived in Ukraine. And we held a meeting, and then the European Parliament in Brussels approved these Kyoto agreements, and our businesses started getting money. Accordingly, the 7231 bill meets all European standards. And I ask all the deputies and all factions to accept as a basis 7231 and on the basis of this bill to see what is done in Bill 4750, and on second reading to adopt the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u17	Thank you. Now, one minute. Yuri Serbin, microphone, minute. Then Yuri Karmazin. There's been a performance since the faction, yes. And Mikola Tomenko, then. Dear colleagues, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u18	Dear colleagues, do you know what's wrong with us? When we start a committee fight. The law now presented by our colleague Scubenko belongs to the Committee on Ecology. Why another committee enters here is not clear. I read one law and another, and there's a positive one, and there's a positive one, but it's got to be done by that committee that's in charge of the profile. So I propose to support the proposal of the Scientific and Experimental Authority to take the basis of 4750 and to take the positive one that is in the law that the honourable MPs have proposed. No one wants to humiliate them, but everyone needs to do his job. Or we're confusing our functions so much that we're going to have a hard time figuring out who's responsible. Once again, I ask you to uphold Law 4750. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u19	Yuri Carmazin. Then the Tooth, Cappleyenne.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u20	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! The laws of the national MPs of Zvegilski and others are different from others, although by 7231, I mean that this market will be created since 2014. [[By the way, he raises his hand, now, Vladimir Mikhailovich, you just can't see]] If we're creating a market for waste trade since 2020, no one will need it anymore. What are we doing? Because of this, it is obvious that we must now take steps towards Ukraine's participation in international trade in these discards until we have a normal industry. But if the tax administration continues to do so, we will soon have nothing to do. And if the prime minister of Azarov does not accept the people’s deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u21	Valentin Zubov, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u22	Valentin Zubov, National Labour Union of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, today we are discussing a very pressing problem, but the problem is that we do not know the depths of the problem. The main objective of the Kyoto Protocol is to establish a country for industrially highly developed countries and to set quotas for harmful emissions into the atmosphere. So if our country is going to trade these quotas, let's ask ourselves, first of all, how many harmful emissions into the atmosphere are happening in Ukraine. Today, let us imagine a situation where our industrial potential has been realized since the Soviet era. And go to Zaporozhye, Dnepropetrovsk, Mariupol and so on, and see how relevant this problem is. Three. The Kyoto Protocol shall provide for liability. The possibility of financial liability for a quota breach is not excluded. And we're selling what we don't know yet: maybe we'll have to buy those quotas ourselves. That is why, I believe, a committee bill needs to be supported and deeper.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u23	People's Deputy Caplienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u24	Vladimir Kaplienko, group “Reforms for the Future”. Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention to just three questions. Of course, three bills: 7231, 4750 and 5166 – need to be considered in the population. On behalf of the group, I want to prove our position that we think we should base the bill on 4750 and work with it. That's the first one. The other one. I would like to thank Parliament and all the parliamentarians who have done this work, that we have finally come up with a view to standardizing the requirements of the Kyoto Protocol in Ukraine. If we do that, we'll take a big step forward. But I would like to talk about the spirit of this bill. See, this is about 3 basic functions: the observation that should create a national cadastral centre and a national register of anthropogenic emissions; the second is economic mechanisms to stimulate the reduction of such emissions; and the third is to determine the basis and methods of distribution of the rights to discard. Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u25	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u26	Dear colleagues, don't you think the spirit of this bill is to limit rights through the distribution of greenhouse gas emissions in the context of the emissions that were at the time the Kyoto Protocol was drafted? I'm paying attention to this in the drafting of this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u27	Yes, the microphone of Yuhim Leonidovich Zviagilski, please. You did.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u28	Dear friends, my colleagues, just think, today, until 2012, Ukraine has the right to sell 2.4 billion tons of emissions, and the average price is 10 euros, as much as we can put in the execution of the Power today until 2012, that's the first. Therefore, we must hurry, run forward in international relations so that we can be on the market in Europe, respect us, so that we can be respected and traded with us. My colleagues, my friends, whom I deeply respect, therefore, their bill proposes to enter the market in 2020. By this time, no one needs us anymore, we'll all be sold without us.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u29	Yes. Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u30	Dear colleagues, I'm here with all due respect to my colleagues, I'd like to say. That environmental issues need to be slowed down, especially when they want to make a lot of money on environmental issues and fast, it causes. It's a cause for concern. Second of all, I think we should all be in the Supreme Council doing our jobs. If the subject of the bill is a matter of the environment, it should be considered by the environmental committee, because we will go so far as to bring every law into our committee. Let's take down the committees, and everyone will report their law and tell us how good it is. And the third position, frankly, is that I have a weakness in reading all the documents and I see for the first time such a hard conclusion of scientific and scientific management, which, by the way, was signed by seven employees, not one, but seven. Behold, the executioner of Erophew, Kuznetsov, Goodzinsky, Chechtov, and Fomin, who said that Bill 7231, well, softly speaking, is far from ideal. If in the environmental bill we're offered to import equipment without a moment, if in the environmental bill we're asked to cancel the solicitation rule, I have a lot of questions. I think that in this kind of environment, the big money, the tools have to be so that we don't get worried that someone's got this money, somewhere they're going in the wrong direction. So I wouldn't rush, I'd base the bills that our colleagues have developed from the environmental committee, and I'd think about the purity, transparency of these standards that would allow and energy conservation to provide and make money for the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u31	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. Everyone's already made a statement. That's why I'm going to put their reports to the vote in order. I first put to the vote the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act, registration number 7231, “On energy conservation regulation”. The committee proposes to accept it as a basis. Please vote. [[16:30:06]] For 273 Decision taken. By factions, please: Region Party – 169, "Block of Timoshenko" – 3, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" – 41, communists – 25, "Block of Lithuania" – 20, non-fractional – 15. Dear colleagues, obviously, there is no point in considering the following bills, because they are alternative, there is a proposal for a committee in preparation for the second reading to look closely at the proposals in the bills, the registration numbers 4750, 5166, and to take into account all the rational grains that will allow for a substantial improvement in the bill that we have just adopted as a basis. Is there no objection? Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am announcing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2010. [[on the repayment of the debt for electricity consumption and the supply of coal arising from coal and energy industries]] There is a suggestion to consider this issue in a simplified way. [[16:31:25]] For 212 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Viktor Ivanovich Turmanov. Correspondent Vladislav Lukyanov, the first deputy head of the Committee on Budget Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u32	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Draft Act No. 7157 on amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget 2010 is drafted under Protocol No. 6 of the meeting chaired by First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Kluev Andrey Petrovic on coal issues. With regard to this draft law, it provides for a reallocation of 160 million Mintopanergo funds to the Ministry of Coal, then the Ministry of the Coal Industry to be accounted for or accounted for with electricity debts and 40 million for the purchase of coal, domestic coal for closed coal enterprises. Therefore, the implementation of this bill does not require additional funding under the State budget adopted for 2010. The implementation of this bill will enable us to resolve relations, i.e. the repayment of mutual creditors' debt for electricity consumption and coal. Please support this bill as a whole. There is a positive decision by the Budget Committee and the Fuel and Energy Committee. The Ministry of Finance also supports the bill. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u33	Thank you. Sit down, Victor Ivanovich. Vladislav Valentinovich Lukyanov, the committee’s decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u34	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! You're invited! The committee considered a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2010. [[No. 7157]] The bill proposes to reduce by 160 million the expenditure of the Ministry of Fuel and Energy under the budget programme “Actions to implement the integrated nuclear fuel cycle programme in Ukraine” and the State-target environmental programme, to bring in the safe state of uranium production facilities of the Transnistrian Chemical Plant and to target them to increase the expenditure of the Ministry of Coal Industry under the budget programme “Restructuring coal and tore production industries”, including the repayment of debt for consumption in past periods of electricity. The additional costs of coal companies are intended to be used for the provision of fuel to employees, to repay the debt owed to energy-efficient companies for electricity consumption, which will allow them to settle with the Crucible for the transport of coal. The proposed bill has no impact on the income and expenditure of the budgets and is balanced. According to the draft bill, the majority of the members of the Committee on Budget Affairs were supported by the majority and recommended to the Supreme Council, with the results of the first reading, of adopting the bill as a basis and as a whole, as a law taking into account the following changes in the appendix to the bill. In addition, after the column “programme expenditure classification and government budget lending code”, add the column “functional expenditure classification and public budget lending code” in which the functional classification codes 0434 and 0431 are indicated in the lines with the code of the programming classification 1101080 and 1301070 respectively. This proposal is presented in a letter to the Committee on Budget Affairs concerning this bill. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u35	Thank you, too. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a discussion if you need to. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? We voted this morning. Please, Andrew Anatolyovich. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u36	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm surprised, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that you've put this bill on short notice. This is a bill on changes to the state budget of Ukraine. This is a bill that foresees that even the end-of-the-line costs of this budget, the budget for the implementation of the integrated programme and the creation of the nuclear fuel cycle in Ukraine, and the state-of-the-art environmental programme for the safe state of uranium production facilities of the Transnistrian Chemical Plant for 160 million dollars, will be redistributed for the benefit of where they will go. I want Azarov, who none of the deputies can meet with, and Yuri Carmazin too, to know that the “watcher” is currently in charge. Not even a citizen of Ukraine, a citizen of another country, Bulgaria. I want to stop what's going on, we have now to have the conclusions of the Ministry of Finance on the value of the impact on the income spending. We have to reconcile it with the Budget Code, we have to have the conclusion of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And, dear friends, let's stop referring so simply to the changes to the State Budget Act of Ukraine. Let's just stop putting laws into the session room. Let's go back to the Supreme Council Rules Act, even the "rape" that you gave the eighth number and adopted, Adam Ivanovich, and the President signed, you know, the absolutely unconstitutional Law on the Rules. But that Law on the Rules does not apply to us either. That is why I draw the attention of our regulatory committee to the constant disregard of the legislative rights of the national MPs and against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u37	Dear National Deputies! Who else insists on speaking out of those factions that have not exercised such a right? I can't see. Dear National Deputies! The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis and generally as a law, taking into account the proposals made by the committee’s first deputy. Do you need to read them again or not? I am voting on a proposal by the committee on the adoption of the bill as a basis and on the whole, including the proposals made in the committee’s decision, which have just been made by Vladislav Lukyanov, the first deputy chairman of the committee, please vote. [[16:39:40]] For 241 The law is passed. Thank you. I'm calling it in. The factions, please. Region Party 170, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 0, Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense - 6, Communists - 25, Litvina Block - 20, non-fractional - 20. A draft decree on the establishment of the boundaries of the city of Šostka and the region of Šostkin in the district of Suma is being announced for consideration. The reporter is Sinchenko Viktor Mikolaiovich, and I would like to make a brief report to Viktor Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u38	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! As a result of socio-economic development in the town of Šstka, the industrial, housing and utility buildings went beyond the city’s territory, which was determined back in 1967. Land collection for residential micro-regions of industry and municipal infrastructure was carried out according to current legislation. However, the city’s new borders were not established. In this regard, the Suma District Council violated the concerns of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the establishment of the boundaries of the city of Šostka. A project to change the boundaries of the town of Šostka was made by the Shastkin City branch of the state-owned company Gluhov district center of the state land cadastre. The city’s existing territory is 35,000 acres [3,557 ha]. Within the city are 321 acres [321 ha] of territory in the knowledge of the Kovunov Rural Council, 84 hectares [84 ha] of the Oblivion Rural Council, 14 hectares [14 ha] of the Mironian Rural Council, 301 hectares [301 ha] of territory in the name of the Gamaliya Rural Council of the Shastkin district. There are industrial enterprises on these lands: WAT “Oka”, “Svema”, the Shastkin Chemical Reactivities Plant “Impulse”, the Shastkin Farm, the Iron concrete plant, and other industries. Thus, the territory of the town of Šostka will be 4,000 acres [4,000 ha] after making the changes. The issue of border change was agreed in accordance with the legislation and was considered and approved by the Scottish City, Kovtunjski, Oblivijski, Mironivski, Gamalijski village district and the Sumski district councils and the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on agrarian policy and land relations. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self - Government supports the issue of the Suma District Council on the establishment of the boundaries of the town of Šostka. We ask the deputies to support the territorial community and the decision of our committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u39	Thank you. Honorary colleagues, materials, and committee decisions have been added to the proposals of the Suma District Council, the Scottish District Council, the Scottish City Council, that is, the issue is dealt with at all levels. If you have no objection, allow me to put to the vote a proposal for a draft decree establishing the boundaries of the city of Shastka and the Shoskin district of the Suma region. Please vote. [[16:43:08]] For-300 I'll take the order. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we must now consider two draft decrees for parliamentary hearings. I have a request: let's look at this issue as two draft regulations in a simplified procedure. No objections? Please vote. These are draft regulations: registration number 7085 and 7201. [[16:43:50]] For 226 Decision taken. Reporter – Viacheslav Kirilenko on the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on "The Military Sea Force of Ukraine: Status, Problems, Perspectives" in February 2011. Váchaslav Anatolyevich, there will probably have to be an offer already, if in February, which day. Because we have February 12th about the hydrocarbons, about the state of production. We'll have to propose next Wednesday. We're going to have to offer a date, but it's not 12.01. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u40	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party “For Ukraine!” Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! With your permission before the report begins, I will note that today I welcome the 15 years of the patriarchal service of the Patriarch of Kiev and the entire Russian Federation of the Holy Filaret, and with this I welcome the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Kyiv Patriarchate, all believers and all the Ukrainian people. [[Applause]] Now essentially the draft decision. After one of the speeches by the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, I suggested that at the parliamentary level we discuss the issue of the Ukrainian Navy in order to improve their material, social and other aspects of their lives. At previous expert levels, it has been determined that this is a fair offer that deserves support. Given the ratification of the Kharkiv Agreements and the Black Sea Navy of the Russian Federation will be in the ruling coalition in Ukraine by 2042, the need to increase the financing of the Ukrainian Navy, increase the wages and financial support of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, as well as support for the proper moral and spiritual patriotic spirit of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. We are being challenged in the Party “For Ukraine!” by some of the processes that are taking place around the Ukrainian Navy, around the fleet, and mainly the issue of the release in connection with low wages and cash retention, as well as the patriotic upbringing in the sense of the final release of the longstanding head of the Fleet Broadcasting Company “Bryz” Miroslav Mamczak. These are just a few questions that need to be discussed, in our opinion, and in the Plenary Hall. In this regard, I have put forward a bill for parliamentary hearings: "Ukrainian naval forces: status, problems, prospects for development". [[in February 2011]] Please, may we jointly now set a specific date in February according to the timetable of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and please support, I think, this very constructive draft decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u41	Thank you, too. Valentin Sergiyovich Zubov, deputy head of the National Security and Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u42	Valentin Zubov, National Labour Union of Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! In accordance with the mandate of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security and Defence, on 22 September of this year, at its meeting, the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the holding of parliamentary hearings on "The Ukrainian Navy: status, problems, prospects for development" was considered by the Ukrainian National Security and Defence Committee at its meeting. Such hearings are proposed in February 2011. The author's concern about the current state of the Navy, caused by an unacceptablely low level of funding and material and technical security, is, in our view, entirely correct and shared by the members of our committee. But given the need to talk today about the state of the Ukrainian Armed Forces as a whole, the chronic underfunding that actually leads them to destruction and undermines the country's defence, the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should submit a draft decree on the conduct of parliamentary hearings on the subject: “Ukrainian Armed Forces: status, problems, prospects for development” to the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work. However, he invites the author, on behalf of the faction, in accordance with article 229, paragraph 3, of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules, to bring up the question of hearings on the Conciliation Council in the current year, the preliminary consideration of the Ukrainian State Budget 2011 project, during an hour of questioning by the Government, the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Defence Minister on the status and problems of further reforming the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u43	Thank you. Please sit down. Is there a need to discuss this? Please sign up. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Andrew Parubius. Viacheslav Kirilenko, right? Please, the right to speak is passed on to Viacheslav Kirilenka. Then Andrew Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u44	Thank you, Mr. Andrey! Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party “For Ukraine! ” I understand, Your Honor, that there may not be any support for this bill. Although he is, I think, quite right and constructive. But I want to draw attention to the problems of the Ukrainian fleet in general, which, you know, is kind of like a pasture in a dusty Ukrainian territory, which is the town of Sevastopol. So Ukrainians through the budget, through the government, through most, through opposition, if they really care about their national interest and the entire fleet, they have to do everything they can to make our sailors there feel good. So that they can feel the support of the whole country. And to express it not only in words, but in wages, in housing and in their high moral and political spirit. Now everyone is talking about the problem of piracy, which has become relevant to Ukraine, as it may or may not be for anyone. Because Ukrainians have a lot of sailors. Who will be involved in the rescue operations of our sailors? How many suffer and are now in captivity? We will appeal to whom, to Russia only, to the United States only, to the European Union, and we will not build our ships, to send the watershed to protect our Ukrainian sailors from Odessa, from Berdjansk, from Mariupol, from Sevastopol, because we do not have the security of the Ukrainian Navy. And that's why I think it's a long time to speak not only from a geopolitical point of view, but simply from the point of view of the basic human need for wives and relatives of sailors to be able from Odessa, Sevastopol, from Mariupol to send their men quietly on long voyages, knowing that there are Ukrainian naval forces that carry rotations and can come to help. And now these corvettes that need to be built for resilience are not financed in this budget at all, because the money that's been allocated, just for past calculations, is already done. The entire army needs at least plus 9 billion dollars right now, not next year. Most people don't feel comfortable talking about it now, because it's not acceptable anymore. But I'm going to talk about it from the opposition as a citizen of Ukraine. That's why I'm proposing my draft ruling. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u45	Andrew Pavlovsky's right to speak is passed on to Andrew Kožemiakin, right? Microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u46	Dear colleagues, there is indeed a problem, and our faction will support the initiative of our colleague Vijacheslav Anatoliyovich Kirilenko to hold parliamentary hearings on the theme “Ukrainian naval forces”. But what I'd like to say is that a former naval officer, which, in fact, is a bad situation, is problems, and there are no prospects for the development of the Ukrainian Navy. First of all, you know, the Ministry of Defense today is also a former naval officer, Mr. Ježel, who knows very well what a naval fleet is, he knows the problems of the fleet. I think it is precisely he who, as Secretary of Defense, should pay first attention to these naval forces, which today, indeed, are in a rather serious state of badness. That's why we need to solve this problem in a complex and not put such tasks on Parliament today to listen to the problems of the Navy, tomorrow -- the air force, the next day -- the land army. It's not good. So we have to solve the problem in a fundamental way. But once again it's a distraction, as they say, an object, because today the main problem of both our country and the government that is headed by Mr. Azarov today is a simple economic crisis. That's why our faction is going to vote yes, but this is a problem that needs to be solved in the complex. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u47	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I'm putting the vote on the table. Attention, please! on the adoption of the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on "The Military-Morish Forces of Ukraine: Status, Problems, Perspectives" in February 2011. [[Registration number 7085]] If the Supreme Council supports this decision, then we're setting the date of the technical hearing. I mean, in February, because it's February 12th foresaw parliamentary hearings. With this proposal in mind, I'm putting the draft ruling to the vote. Please vote. [[16:54:48]] For-157. The decision is not taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] The factions, please. The Party of Regions – 5, Block of Timoshenko – 73, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 43, Communist faction – 0, Block of Lithuania – 20, non-fractional – 6. Respectful colleagues, given the importance of this subject, may be able to do so. The commission of the committee to offer possible parliamentary hearings, perhaps in another way, to consider the issues in the complex that relate to the Ukrainian military organization, the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Or come to the committee hearings with the Supreme Council of Ukraine's apparatus providing the necessary support. No objections? Thank you. One minute, please. One minute from the faction. Dear colleagues, one minute from the factions. Kirilenko. Who's going to be next? Well, you can't do that, it's a discussion!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u48	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party “For Ukraine! ” Dear colleagues, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich, I just think that if we postpone consideration of this issue, we understand that we will never consider it. Because committee hearings are a narrow presence, it's a lack of resonance and public response to solving the problems that have long needed to be solved. The discussion during the budget project is sorry, I'm afraid of it. Because we didn't have a budget discussion this year. Azarov brought the budget into the smoke after the ratification of the “harkov treaties” – and in some way in 10 minutes the majority approved the budget without discussion. As a result of this activity -- in smoke -- plus 9 billion now needs the Ukrainian Armed Forces at all, not to mention the need for a separate Ukrainian naval force. So I'm going to suggest that maybe we go back to this question at the next meeting, and I'll make another suggestion on this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u49	Thank you. Well, please, Silent Paul. Then there's Katerina Vaschuk. Then it's Christmas Eve.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u50	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Well, if we haven't succeeded in budgeting a budget of 2 billion dollars, and now we're not voting on what's proposed to strengthen our own strength, our presence in the world, our presence in those risk zones that Mr. Viacheslav was leading, I have a proposal, and put it to a vote: let's vote to eliminate the Ukrainian Armed Forces. I'm sure the Kremlin Party will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u51	Catherine Timofievna Vashchuk Then there's Vadim Koleschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u52	Dear colleagues, we all understand what an army is, for we send our sons to serve there. And I want those years that they spend in the army to not just go by, but, really, to serve the Fatherland fully, so that the army is technically armed so that it can be provided for everyone. And the question of the army is not just a political question, it's a question of the country's life, its defence, it's a question of the honour of the state, after all. Hence, it deserves more than just discussion, but it deserves all the support. And there is probably no one who does not know the truth: If we do not properly feed our army, it will be early or late to feed a foreigner. So let us make the right decision one day.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u53	Vadim Koleschenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u54	Dear colleagues, as a resident of Sevastopol, I have the heartache to note the plight of the Ukrainian naval forces and I, like all members of the Party of the Regions, have experienced the way in which we, in the five years of the “Uhaidokala” orange power of all our armed forces. Now they want to play the show, the author of the bill said he needed public discussion, he needed public resonance. Yes, there was a public resonance when people did not vote for Chief of Staff. The Constitution guarantee Viktor Yanukovic, the ruling majority, will do everything we can to make the armed forces better. But it's not going to be a show, it's going to be a serious and very careful, literate job. So please hold the committee hearings, prepare the question, and we will be happy to be able to support you. And you don't have to put on a show here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u55	Thank you. Dear colleagues, so let's do it this way, commissioning a committee to consider this issue and make proposals for the response of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And to your knowledge in 2009, the State budget for funding the Ministry of Defense was less than eight billion dollars. 68 percent were actually funded. For 2010, there were 13.5 billion, and the funding was 100 percent according to the schedule. A little? But at the same time, there are some distortions. Yeah, that's 40 percent of the need. Let's work on increasing the budget substantially. Here I am convinced that we must be all alone and not keep political accounts. Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on Pension Reform as a Part of Economic Reform. Reporter Valerius Suškević, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u56	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! The discussion at the highest level on the issues of further improvement of the pension system in our country was sparked by an extremely acute debate today in society among the authorities, in Parliament, among pensioners about the attempt, you know, such local sporadic actions as, well, let's just say, I wouldn't say, pension reform, but some pension improvement. In particular, action was sounded. Attempts to increase the retirement age of women. At the same time, what I want to say is that today in the world and in Europe, the main factor in the implementation of the pension reform is the systemic nature of the implementation of the pension reform itself. I would like to draw your attention to the name of the parliamentary hearings that Mikola and I have proposed today as parliamentary hearings on pension reform: “The pension system as part of economic reforms”. The very name defines the systemic aspects of pension reform. Systemicism must be about both wage reform and the development of the financial market, the stability of the solidarity system. I will not count in the absence of time all the systemic factors that are correlated entirely with the economic reforms in Ukraine. These are the questions that are suggested at the parliamentary hearings on this issue. Today, there are many experts who are willing to offer and European, world experience, are national experts, there are experts who deal with issues related to the population of Ukraine, the economy, the social sphere, and so forth.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u57	Microphone, please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u58	The head of the Supreme Council, who offered to hold these parliamentary hearings, also confirmed the relevance of the consideration. Our decision is to hold these parliamentary hearings on December 1. But following the proposal of the Ministry of Labour, Social Policy and the Pension Fund, there is a proposal, and the committee supported this proposal, to hold parliamentary hearings on 15 December this year. To be honest, I was surprised by the position of the Ministry of Labour, which sent, not to the committee, but to the Head of the Supreme Council, after a proposal on the Committee on 15 December in general this year not to consider this issue at parliamentary hearings and move it to the next week. I didn’t understand that position because I was asked to spend December 15. The committee supports this proposal and invites you, the people's deputies, to decide what to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u59	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the discussion. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Andrew Parubius. Viacheslav Kirilenko, who? Xenia Leapina, please. The faction “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u60	Xenia Lapina, Party “For Ukraine! ” Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that this topic is very relevant today. It is relevant both to those who are now retired and to all of our working citizens in Ukraine. We have, unfortunately, very many decisions today that simply block the current holes and destroy both economic and employment activities and entrepreneurial activities. This is neither logical nor appropriate. Some decisions that seem to be very short and simple, such as the introduction of an additional pension for entrepreneurs, actually result in the budget losing even the modest costs it received, not receiving further, but losing. What do we have as a result? We have an increase in the pension deficit. If we only count on an increase in retirement age, apart from rebellion, it won't cause anything. Systemic pension reform hangs in the air and requires our attention, requires our action. We have put forward a bill that we have proposed a fundamental decision on reducing pension benefits, on the category of benefits, and on the withdrawal of, for example, entrepreneurs, individuals into a single category that could participate in the pension insurance of a solidarity system, solely on voluntary grounds. But we are aware that at the time of the timely introduction of the accumulated ingredient. Let's just compare two examples. This is France, which is rebelling, because they always have to add retirement age and Canada, which, for example, has no problem with the Pension Fund. Why? And because they've introduced a diversified pension system and the basic pension is paid out of stockpiling sources. How long will we continue to experience negative experiences? Maybe it's time to take a positive experience. Maybe it's time, really, for a deep and real, complex pension reform? Thus, saving our entrepreneurs, saving our working population.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u61	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u62	finally bringing our system of wage accounting to standard standards, because, excuse me, 40 percent on salary, that's the only way to shade and lose the Pension Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u63	Thank you. Andrey Pavlowski, instead of Fomin, is a faction of the “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u64	Andrey Pavlovski, the “Fatherland” party. Respectable compatriots! Deputies! That's a very topical topic right now, because we have a minimum pension of 723 bracelets, more than ten million get a pension of less than 900 dollars. At the same time, it is clear and not surprising that according to the UN, almost 80 percent of our population is poor. The poor are the pensioners, the ten million who cannot live to make a living by the end of the month. And I would also like to point out that today's authorities are still not fulfilling their social commitments and promises made by President Yanukovic's candidate, who said in February that the minimum pension would be 1,000 200 dollars and the average was 3,000 dollars. And compare, reverend pensioners, with what you're getting right now. So we really need to talk about pension reform. But we need to talk about reform not as a deterioration of life today, so somehow our reformers understand reform as a deterioration of social conditions, a deterioration of the lives of our people, but a reform that will. Indeed, the problem is that there are 14 million pensioners in our country to solve this problem. And we have to go. Colleagues said, "systemicity." Not to take the simplest and stupidest course of action when mechanically raising pensions, as the government of Azarov declares, is a five - year increase in minimum insurance for our pensioners. Because this is the solution to the pension deficits of the very unhappy and poor pensioners. Whether we need these reforms, whether we should finally move on to a three-level pension system, to a accumulation system, from conversation to business.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u65	Peter Cibenko, then Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u66	Thank you. Communist faction Peter Cibenko, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Council Dear colleagues, at least those of us who are interested in this problem, know that the term “pension reform” among veterans has become a kind of profanity. In a society where three-quarters of the population, three-quarters of the pensioners receive a thousand dollars pension and less, there's no other way. I want to say that the faction of the Ukrainian Company will certainly support the initiative to hold parliamentary hearings. But we see the main course of real, not of Bhutan’s pension reform, not of rewriting, of rewriting of the Law on Stately Compulsory Pension Insurance, but of radically changing the economic situation, in the economic sphere. Because when there were 30 million jobs in Ukraine in Soviet times, there were some comings to the Pension Fund, and when there were less than 10, there were others.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u67	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u68	I mean, once again, I stress that the main focus of pension reform is to make a radical change to a better economic situation. Without it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u69	Thank you. Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u70	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I am simply struck by the imagination of our political opponents, and they have raised people to the Supreme Council building, which has begun to make noises, to scream so that the Language Law will not be passed. I approach and ask, “Well, there is no law on languages on the agenda, no law on languages, go away, yes”. They say, "No, we can't, we've been paid." I say, "Get out of here." “No,” they say, “if we break up, we have to pay back.” Then I say, "Then shout louder, and they will give you a bonus." Now they're starting to pull the plug on their ears, so they're supposed to raise their retirement age? It won't get any higher. It's not him, it's fantasy again. You don't have to do that anymore, so you've got a lower platinum rating, and you can't lift those fantasies. It's business to take. The pension reform will be carried out in a systematic, integrated manner, which will indeed be fair, which will allow for consideration, and the quality of work and quantity of work, to increase the pension of the poorest -- that will be a fair pension reform, but that will be a decision in the matter, and a chat and a speech room.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u71	Yes, Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u72	Dear colleagues! I want to say that it is the function of Parliament and experts, experts and scientists that decisions made by the President or the government are not decisions against society but are decisions for the benefit of society. Before they are accepted, we need to discuss them very seriously and fundamentally. When a discussion arose about the possibility of accepting retirement age, all of our colleagues: Jaroslav Suhi, Vladimir Mikhajlovich Litwin, colleagues from “Our Ukraine” said accordingly that, friends, let us discuss fundamentally what pension reform is how to implement it. Because rising or rising retirement age is one of the many and not the key points in pension reform that pensioners expect of us. So, based on the nature of the discussion of this issue, we've come up with the idea of calmly, together with the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, with the Pension Fund and involving the experts to discuss this issue, then the government in, and the President in, and how to move in that direction. By the way, both the Ministry and the Pension Fund are ready for this discussion and they're offering us, as co-authors, not 1st December, but 15th December, we agree with Valery Mikhailovich on December 15th to prepare and hold such a professional discussion. And I agree with my colleagues here that this is not supposed to be, or any requirement, or a counter requirement, which should be a conversation of professionals who are well aware of the difficult situation that has arisen in us today and the state of the Pension Fund and the situation with the status of pensioners. Because I'm going to tell you one number today, really, we're almost 11 years behind the European Union today. Obviously, we need to think about how to help us today, and it is not just to survive, but to live longer, because the quality of life and the duration of life is a sign of civilization. And at these parliamentary hearings, let's have a serious discussion and then figure out how to move into pension reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u73	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for a draft Parliamentary Hearing Order on "Retirement reform as part of economic reform" on 15 December 2010. Please vote. [[17:15:21]] For-138 The decision is not taken. The factions. Ladies and gentlemen, let's not have a motive. We have to work. Region Party – 3, "Timoshenko Yulia Block" – 73, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" – 25, communists – 26, "Litvina Block" 0-0, non-fractional – 11. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Procedure is being announced for consideration. [[on the adoption by the Economic Court of decisions concerning forced entry into residence or other possession of the natural person undertaking]] [[Registration number 2147]] There is a request to consider the matter in a simplified manner. I'll put him to the vote. [[17:16:14]] For 202 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Ukrainian National Deputy Feldman Alexander Borisovich, co-rapporteur of the Committee on Justice of Novikov Yulia Volodymyrna. Please. Coroner, Deputy Head of the Committee, First Deputy Head of the Justice Committee Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u74	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Honourable National Deputies, the Justice Committee, on 15 July 2008, reviewed the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Economic Procedural Code on the adoption by the Economic Court of a decision on forced entry into the home or other ownership of the natural person who is an entrepreneur for the purpose of implementing a special legal regulation of relations relating to the infringement of the natural person who is an entrepreneur for the protection of economic competition. [[No. 2147]] The project is intended to implement the first part of article 44, paragraph 1, and paragraph 4 of the Final Provisions of the Economic Competition Protection Act to establish the procedure for the courts to take decisions regarding the entry into the home or other ownership of the natural person undertaking the survey or search. In connection with this project, it is proposed that the Code of Procedure be supplemented after Chapter B-1 “Preventive measures” by a new section on the decision of the Court of First Instance concerning forced entry into the home or other possession of the natural person of the entrepreneur. The Ministry of Justice, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court of Economics, the National Law Academy of Jaroslav Wisego, the Odessa National Law Academy, the Institute of State and Law, the Institute of Supreme Council Legislation, in their conclusions to this project, point to the inadequacy of its adoption as a law and make a number of observations. The committee agreed with the comments. As a result, the committee decided to return the bill to the author, recommending that the Supreme Council return the draft law to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further work. [[No2147]] Especially because he has systemic observations. First. These changes are not subject to the provisions of the Master’s Procedural Code, since the substantive work of the domestic courts is linked to the exercise of justice in matters of agriculture. The other one. Already a valid code, a valid Code of Economic Procedure, is in place.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u75	Microphone, please. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u76	The Code of Law has already settled the issue of ensuring that a person is able to exercise the right of appeal to a household court with a claim for precautionary measures in view of his or her fear that the submission of the necessary evidence will later become impossible or difficult, as well as the grounds for believing that his or her rights have been violated or that there is a real threat to their violation. In particular, article 43 of the GCC’s 2 badge provides for precautionary measures, such as the disposal of evidence, the inspection of premises involving violations of rights, the imposition of an arrest on property belonging to a person for whom a precautionary measure is taken and who is found in him or other persons. The report was completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u77	Dear colleagues, please sign up for a discussion. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? National Deputy Fomin, please microphone, fraction of the BUTT. Ah, on the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u78	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, the question is of great interest today. Entrepreneurs in this situation today are reminded of such a saying: “Seven with a spoon and one with a spear.” They're under a lot of pressure. You have seen today who wanted to go to the people at the Supreme Council, what they live by, and why they do not love our authority. Sadly, no one has left the authorities, and their patience is interrupted, why? They are now hostages of the political situation. They come to them every day. Someone just moved up, and I want to run for the opposition party somewhere, and sit down, 'cause we're gonna destroy you and your business. Such signals came to us today from the district of Zitomir, in the Donetsk region. In Lviv, you can't even say what's going on, because it's full of vachanals. And why. Just because an entrepreneur has an opinion that does not fit the point of authority. What we will consider with you today. In fact, it is suggested that measures that allow for entry into premises occupied by entrepreneurs should be brought into order. To their cars, to their apartments. Why? In order to search for evidence of illegal activity. Who and how should do so, according to the authors? This must be decided by the court. How do you do that? When it comes to filing the Antimonopoly Committee. Excuse me, how is the Antimonopoly Committee going to be gathering evidence that this entrepreneur has some information at home that proves that he's being violated? Do we have another police force in the form of an Antimonopoly Committee or Security Service? Does the Antimonopoly Committee have the right to carry out operational or search activities or to listen to a conversation? No, it's not. How, then, will the decision be made by the judge? Based on what evidence? We put it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u79	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u80	And the Antimonopoly Committee. It's different. If the author does not appear in court once, on another occasion, the entrepreneur remains in power. Why? Because only when the question is being considered will the court, for example, find no basis for an invasion of its premises or of a vehicle under a search for information, which is of interest to the Antimonopoly Committee, only then can it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u81	Thank you. Thank you. Dear colleagues! Question completed. The Committee’s conclusion: Return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work. The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill can be adopted as a basis. In accordance with the Rules, I put to the vote a motion for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Procedure (for the adoption by the court of a decision concerning forced entry into residence or other possession of a natural person (entrepreneur). [[17:23:43]] For-9 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. I suggest your attention, Your Honor, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Procedure. [[on the accusation of the arbitral tribunal's decision and the receipt of the executive letter]] [[Registration number 5322]] There is a request to consider it as a reduced procedure. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please vote. [[17:24:23]] For 202 Decision taken. The reporter is Dmitri Mikitovich Pritica. Coroner is the head of the Committee on Justice's subcommittee, Dmitri Yuriovich Sphenov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a draft Ukrainian law amending the Ukrainian Code of Procedure. [[on the accusation of the arbitral tribunal's decision and the receipt of the executive letter]] [[No. 5322]] Since the adoption of the Third Courts Act, some amendments have been made to it, however, and some relations have remained unresolved as a result of the prosecution of decisions by arbitral tribunals in the courts of general jurisdiction and the issuance by such courts of implementing letters following the decisions of the arbitral tribunals. Such a situation sometimes invalidates the need to appeal to the arbitral tribunal for a solution to the dispute between the parties to civil relations. In order to address the identified shortcomings in the legal regulation of arbitral jurisdiction, it was necessary to supplement the Ukrainian Code of Commerce with the rules that govern it. will regulate the proceedings of arbitral tribunals in domestic courts, as well as the issuance by such courts of implementing letters as decided by the arbitral tribunals. In particular, it is suggested that the question of the jurisdiction of the arbitral tribunals’ decisions be settled, that the form and content of the complaint be determined in respect of the arbitral tribunal’s decision, that the complaint be taken into consideration, that the procedure for its consideration, and that there be grounds for the annulment of the arbitral tribunal’s decision, and so on. In addition, the form and content of the application for an executive letter for the execution of the arbitral tribunal’s decision, the procedure for its consideration, the grounds for its refusal and some other procedural aspects of the enforcement of the arbitral tribunals’ decisions are defined. In line with the conclusion of the First reading of the Bill, the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration can be adopted as a basis. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the Supreme Court, the Institute of Legislation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Academy of Law of Ukraine, the Odessa National Law Academy supported the bill. Please accept this bill as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u83	Thank you. Spanov Dmitry Juryovich, please, on the decision of the committee on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u84	This bill is another logical initiative to develop legislation on arbitral proceedings. On 7 September 2010, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted Bill No. 4806 of Pritika Dmitry Nikitovic on first reading. They provide for a number of amendments to the Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code, which relate to the issue of appeals against the decisions of the arbitral tribunals and their issuance on the basis of the executive sheets. Bill 5322, which we are considering today, proposes similar changes to the Ukrainian Code of Economic Procedure. It is proposed to address the gaps in the economic process in the appeals and enforcement of decisions of arbitral tribunals. The appeal procedure of the arbitral tribunal is extremely important. During the appeal and enforcement, the legitimacy of the arbitral tribunal's decisions is confirmed on an equal footing with that of the judiciary. The Arbitration Courts Act does not give sufficient attention to appeals against and extradition of decisions by arbitral tribunals. For example, there is only one article on appeal. Bill 5322 supported its conclusions: the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, the Institute of Law of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Institute of State and the rights of the name of the Korean State, the Academy of Law of Ukraine, the Odessa National Legal Academy. Position of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office on the Bill: It can be adopted on first reading. Bill 5322 was considered by the Justice Committee at its meeting on 10 March 2010. It was decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the bill on first reading. The contents of the bill require some refinement, which will take into account the proposals made by the people's deputies in preparing for second reading. In view of the above, I ask that the Committee's decision be supported and Bill 5322 adopted on first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u85	Dear colleagues, can we put this proposal to the vote? I am voting on the proposal to adopt, on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Procedure, concerning the prosecution of the arbitral tribunal and the receipt of the executive letter. Registration number 5322. Please vote. [[17:29:22]] For 292 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am announcing a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the improvement of permit procedures. Registration number 6220. The rapporteur is the deputy chairman of the committee, Kseniya Mikhailovna Ljapina. Suggestion: To consider this question by a simplified procedure. Please vote. [[17:29:56]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Please, Kseniya Mikhailna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u86	Thank you, Your Honor. Xenia Lapina, Party “For Ukraine! ” This bill is aimed at further bringing legislation into line with the Law on the Principles of the Permission System. And first and foremost, he's dedicated to giving order in the issuance of such a permit as permission to practice folk medicine, to heal. Such permission is provided for by the valid Ukrainian Law on the Basics of Ukrainian Health Law. Sadly, though, it is designed in such a way that it does not take into account the requirements of today’s legislation on the system of permits. That is, it did not provide grounds for refusal, no grounds for recasting, no grounds for revocation. In fact, it is a bill aimed at making changes, which gives all the reasons, as today, and requires the Act on the Allowance System. The bill was discussed with a professional association. There are some suggestions for second reading, but on the basis it can be taken, and such a decision by the committee on adoption as a basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u87	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss or vote now? Well, if you need to express your position on this project, please sign in. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? None. So, shall we vote then? Please prepare for the vote. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill is appropriate to be sent to pre-work. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the improvement of arbitrary procedures. Please vote. [[17:32:23]] For-19 The decision is not taken. I would like to vote on the second sentence: to re-read the draft law amending certain legislative acts on the improvement of permit procedures, registration number 6220. [[17:32:52]] For 224 The decision is not taken. We didn't make it. I understand. We didn't make it. Who's to go back to the question of re-reading? [[17:33:24]] For 243 We're back. I now put to the vote the proposal to re-read Bill 6220. [[17:33:46]] For 245 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am announcing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Prevention of Immunodeficiency and Social Protection. Registration number 6617, 6617-1, 6274. I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. More specifically, the initiators suggest that we consider the matter. I'll put them to a vote. [[17:34:27]] For 197 Decision taken. Reporters: First Deputy Minister of Health Lysak Viktor Petrovich, Head of the Committee for Health Care, Baychev Tetjana Dmitrovna, and National Deputy of Ukraine, Pavel Jakimović. Please, Victor Petrovich, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u88	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Prevention of Immunodeficiency and Social Protection has been introduced as of 01/07.2010). The project is designed to meet the requirements of paragraph three of the four main tasks of the general government programme for HIV prevention, treatment, care and support of HIV-infected and AIDS-treated persons for 2009-2013, approved by the Ukraine Act of 19 February 2009 approving a state-wide programme for HIV-infection prevention and treatment, care and support for HIV-infection patients for 2009-2013. The adoption of a new edition of the Ukrainian Law on Prevention of Immunodeficiency Syndrome and Social Protection, adopted in 1998, is based on the need to implement public policy in the field of HIV/AIDS prevention in line with the current recommendations of international organizations and better world practices, removing the discriminatory article from it. The bill is designed by the ILO working group and for the implementation of a state-wide security programme, HIV/AIDS prevention, care and support for HIV-infected people. Work on this bill took place during 2009 taking into account relevant international law instruments based on the most recent recommendations published by international agencies working in the field of HIV and AIDS. This bill is in agreement with all the central executive bodies worked at the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice. All the comments and suggestions were taken into account during the process. On 02.12.2009, the draft law was registered with the Supreme Council under number 5392, but was not submitted to the plenary. In March 2010, according to article 10.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u89	Finish up, please. Do you have everyone?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u90	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u91	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Aunt Dmitrovna Bachtieva. Who's gonna be on the committee? There's a letter from the committee head saying she's on her way out. But the decision of the committee we have, we have it, I think we have a chance to see it. Please, Paul Yakimovich Unguryan.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u92	Paul Ungurian. Dear colleagues, this is about making changes to a very important law, the law on the fight against HIV/AIDS, the Russian law on HIV/AIDS. We've had several national HIV/AIDS prevention programs in our years of independence. Each program has an increasing need for funding, money, but at the same time the number of patients is increasing, increasing, and increasing. Perhaps this is not the case with these programs, and perhaps not everything is taken into account in the struggle for a healthy nation. So the bill that I'm introducing, it contains the very social, educational, moral and spiritual aspects of the fight against HIV/AIDS. What are we talking about? What we need to focus today is not just on treatment and prevention in drug risk groups, among some minorities, including sexual ones, but today we need to pay attention to the training of young people, the development of training programs, television programs, the preparation of teacher programs, lecturers in high school, in high school, in a kindergarten that is AIDS, which is dangerous. And we need to fight the spread of HIV/AIDS today, not by recommending contraceptives for our young people. And by offering young people a moral way of life, it's very responsible that sexual relations can only be in marriage, in the family. These are the spiritual foundations of the Ukrainian nation. And that's what this bill is about, which I have the honour to present. Regrettably, recent cases of ignoring such approaches have increased. For example, the Ministry of Health is referred to as the representative of the Ministry of Health of all the cities of Kiev — the major cities.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u93	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u94	Social advertising for the support of the Ministry of Health has become entrenched. It is called this social ad: “Let’s go to my coffee – sex is equal to condoms”, “Let’s go see a movie – sex is equal to condoms”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u95	Please don’t distribute this advertisement, what are you selling?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u96	We get many, thousands of references from our parents, which makes our Ministry of Health, why you produce such a tool to fight HIV/AIDS -- this is a direct provocation to the anti-moral, anti-spiritual behavior of our young people.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u97	Thank you. Thank you. Dear colleagues! Let's maybe do that. It is now clear that we must make a serious legislative decision from this point of view. We'll make a decision about one of the bills, and then we'll be in the process of doing it. Yes. One of the three bills we're going to vote now, we're going to vote now, and then we're going to come to a normal decision in the process of work, and what's more, the subject is painful, the topic is bad for Ukraine. Is there no objection to such an approach? So, your honor, let me put this to a vote. Yeah? I first put to the vote a government bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Prevention of Immunodeficiency and Social Protection. [[Registration number 6617]] Please vote. [[17:41:41]] For-0 The decision is not taken. I'll bet you a vote. "For" is 0, so what's the fraction? Dear colleagues, there is nothing to show for the factions. It's nothing, zero, I say. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt the draft Act, to amend the Ukrainian Law on Prevention of Immunodeficiency Immunodeficiency Immunodeficiency Immunodeficiency Immunodeficiency Immunodeficiency Immunodeficiency and Social Protection. [[Registration number 6617-1]] This is the author's bill, by Tetjana Bahtiev, please vote. [[17:42:30.]] For 323 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues! What? Please, Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u98	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I would like to express one wish to the committee that will be working on the second reading of this document. I think that the title of this document should remove the term “and social protection of the population”. It has a very different load of meaning, and in this law it is simply inappropriate. So I propose that when this paper is being finalized, this part of the title of the bill should be removed because it has something to do with other things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u99	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I propose a morning meeting of the Supreme Council. Excuse me. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will continue for 15 minutes. We have a number of bills to the government -- government members present -- so that we can look at them and decide on the decision. I am announcing a draft Act amending article 33 of the Ukrainian Plant Quarantine Act. [[on how to start and cancel quarantine mode]] The proposal begins to address this issue by a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:44:05]] For 185 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Agrarian Policy Demczak Ivan Mikitovich, co-rapporteur, head of the Perestenko Marina Volodymyrna subcommittee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u100	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. The draft Law on Amendments to Article 33 of the Ukrainian Law on Quarantine Plants has been developed to implement paragraph 2 of the Cabinet of Ministers order “To strengthen control and implementation of sanitary measures, to organize and clarify quarantine zones”. The Ukrainian Law on Quarantine Plants provides that objects of regulation, i.e. grains, oils, grain beans, grain beans, are moved to Ukraine for quarantine certificates if they are removed or imported from quarantine or into quarantine zones. The adoption of amendments to this law will primarily ensure that the ability of operators to move grain, oil, and grain crops within a quarantined area without certificates to reduce the cost of the manufacturer’s vehicle. The second thing he regulates. There is also a bill, a way to establish and publish the withdrawal of quarantine through official media agencies, which had not previously been foreseen. In addition, there will be a case of withdrawal of quarantine, mandatory requirements specified in the decision to cancel, and effective phytosanitary measures will be taken to eliminate the quarantined organism and the withdrawal period. The Cabinet of Ministers is asking for the support of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u101	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Marina Volodymyrable, please, committee decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u102	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! You are invited to consider the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 33 of the Ukrainian Law on Quarantine Plants. [[on how to start and cancel quarantine mode]] [[Registration number 6556]] [[of June 17, 2010, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine]] The purpose of the bill is to strengthen monitoring of phytosanitary measures, order and refine quarantine zones. The adoption of the draft law will provide an opportunity for operators to move grain, oil, and grain crops within the area without a quarantine certificate. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposes to adopt the draft law as a basis. The committee considered a bill at its October 6, 2010, meeting and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the bill be adopted on a basis. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u103	Dear colleagues! And the committee's offering to take it as a basis, and the scientific and expert board has no objection to taking it as a basis, no objection to acceptance as a basis. Is there no objection to putting this motion to a vote? I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending article 33 of the Ukrainian Law on Plant Quarantine. [[on how to start and cancel quarantine mode]] Registration number 6556. Please vote. [[17:47:47:47]] For 231 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! The government requests that the draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Laws on the Definition of Agricultural Products be deferred. Is there no objection? We'll be adjourned then. Dear National Deputies! I suggest that you consider the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts on the order in which persons who are conditionally released from punishment are treated, and that you monitor their conduct. Registration number 7012. The proposal to consider this issue by a simplified procedure. Please vote. [[17:48:36]] For a hundred and Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Justice Minister Bogatyr Vladimir Viktorovich. And the co-rapporteur is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement, Gretzak Vasil Mikolaiovich. Please be prepared by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u104	The President-in-Office, the Honourable People's Deputies, the draft Act of Ukraine amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the procedure for the calculation of persons who are conditionally released from the execution and control of their conduct is designed to prevent additional costs from the State budget as a result of the transfer of the specified functions from the Ministry of Internal Affairs to the State Criminal Enforcement Service. Every year, according to a court decision, 25 to 30 thousand persons sentenced to restrictions of liberty and to be deprived of their liberty for a certain period of time are suspended on condition of the execution of sentences by the Ukrainian State Executive Service. Paragraph 4 of the Final Provisions of the Criminal Enforcement Code of Ukraine provides for the transfer from the internal affairs authorities to the Criminal Enforcement Service from 1 January 2009 of the functions of calculating persons who are conditionally released from punishment and of monitoring their conduct. It should also be noted that the transfer of the above-mentioned functions to the State Criminal Enforcement Service, provided that the existing labour force is maintained per employee, will require the addition of 470 posts and additional budget costs to maintain them at a level of 10 million 152 thousand dollars, the expansion of the premises, and so on. In addition to this, to date, according to the laws of Ukraine “For the Police”, “For the administrative supervision of persons released from places of deprivation”, control over the conduct of persons released on parole is based on internal affairs bodies. Taking into account the agreed legal position and financial position of the proposed draft regulations of the interested central executive authorities, it is proposed to leave the existing system of accounting and control of the behaviour of persons conditionally released from enforcement institutions, as it allows internal affairs authorities to ensure that individual work is performed and that behaviour is monitored.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u105	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u106	The implementation of this law will contribute to the economy of budgetary resources and the removal of legal commissions. Please support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u107	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, the committee is proposing to adopt the bill as a basis. There's something else going on with the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, but this is an expert opinion, it's based on the fact that the bill needs a deflection. Is there a need to discuss it? Please, Sergei Sass, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u108	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear reporter! Dear National Deputies! What did I want to pay attention to when considering this bill? The fact is that Ukraine has a certain obligation to the Council of Europe. In line with these obligations, it is not possible for the Council of Europe to conduct the same judicial investigation, condemnation, and condemnation and punishment. In this case, therefore, by referring specifically to Ukraine’s international obligations, we cannot support the proposal to leave internal affairs to the issue of punishment. So, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, all references to certain expenditures from the budget are absolutely unfounded. And I think we need to be consistent in this situation. Our faction will not support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u109	Dear colleagues, are there no other thoughts? Then I'm voting on the committee's proposal to adopt, as a basis for the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislation on the procedure for the calculation of persons who are conditionally exempt from punishment and the exercise of control over their conduct. Registration number 7012. Please vote. [[17:53:31]] For-37 The solution. The decision is not taken. Suggestion: For re-read. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please be sure. [[5:53:55]] For 243 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have two bills to report to Ukrainian Defence Minister Mikhailo Bronislavovich Ježel. The first bill, registration number 7047, to amend some of Ukraine’s military laws. I'm asking, let's look at this bill in a simplified way, if we can get to the next one. Please vote for this proposal. [[17:54:37]] For 193 Decision taken. Please, Mikhailo Bronislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u110	Honorable Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies! Ukraine’s draft law amending some of Ukraine’s military obligations laws has been developed by the Ministry of Defence to improve the mechanism for the recruitment of military reserve units of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, others established in accordance with the laws of Ukraine, as well as the law enforcement agencies of the special purpose and the state special transport service. The draft Act provides, firstly, for amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Mobilization Preparation and Mobilization, namely, to part three and fifth of article 22 concerning the establishment of the obligation of reserve personnel to enter the military units within the time limits defined by the military commanders in which they serve in the military reserve, and for military commanders to call on reserve personnel in the event of a call for military service in the event of a call for mobilization; article 21 on the imposition of additional obligations on enterprises, institutions and organizations in charge of the treatment of reserve personnel in which they work; and article 37, second, to amend part one, fifth and sixth of the Ukrainian Law on Military Obligation and Military Service on the conduct of military personnel of the military-related Ukrainian Security Service. Military accounting of this category is based on the relevant branches of the BSS. The implementation of this law will not require additional funding from the State Budget. Ukraine's draft law, October 6, 2010, was supported by a meeting of the National Security and Defence Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u111	Thank you. Please sit down, Mikhailo Bronislavovich. Deputy Head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Zubov Valentin Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u112	Valentin Zubov, National Labour Union of Ukraine Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! In accordance with the mandate of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security and Defence, the first reading of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers' draft of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine was prepared. [[on the execution of a military obligation]] The project was designed for the implementation of the Ukrainian Act of 21 January 2010 on the amendment of the Ukrainian Military Duty and Military Service Act, which introduced military service in reserve for the purpose of clarifying and harmonizing separate provisions of the Ukrainian military and military service laws and on the mobilization and mobilization of training on the rules and procedures of military-related military personnel and reserve personnel, as well as on the order of recruitment of military personnel. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority proposes to adopt the bill as a basis and believes that this will allow the conflict between the legislative acts on military matters that have arisen today. The members of the committee agree with the findings of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, proposing to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a result of the first reading of the bill to be adopted on the basis of the proposal, instructing the committee to elaborate a bill taking into account the comments and proposals of the subject-matters of the legislative initiative and to submit it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for consideration in the second reading. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u113	Thank you. Is there no objection to putting a committee proposal to the vote? None. I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the execution of a military obligation]] Registration number 7047. Please vote. [[17:59:11]] For 290 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am announcing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Property in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. [[on improving the disposal of military property]] [[Registration number 7048]] I'm voting on a motion to consider it under a reduced procedure. [[17:59:45]] For 210 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Minister of Defence Ježel Mikhailo Bronislavovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u114	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, the Honourable People's Deputies, the draft law of Ukraine was developed to implement paragraph 3 of the minutes of the meeting of the Government Commission on the coordination of work on the disposal of inappropriate and excessive missiles, ammunition and explosives. The bill regulates the procedure for the disposal of military property. The ultimate objective of this act is to improve the disposal of military property, which will allow the cost to be channelled from the implementation of disposal products, military equipment and ammunition to the implementation of the State's programme for the disposal of conventional ammunition. At a meeting of the National Security and Defence Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the bill was approved. We propose that the proposed draft law of Ukraine be adopted on the first reading as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u115	Thank you, too. Valentin Sergiyovich, please, regarding the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u116	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! In accordance with the mandate of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security and Defence, the first reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Legal regime of Property in the Armed Forces of Ukraine was prepared for consideration by the Cabinet of Ministers. [[on improving the disposal of military property]] The procedure for the disposal of military property proposed by the project is, in fact, being applied in practice today in accordance with the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and other legal acts. The adoption of the project will eliminate the discrepancy between the provisions of the Ukrainian Law “On the Legal Regime of Property in the Armed Forces of Ukraine and the requirements of other legislative acts. The main scientific and expert office believes that, as a result of the first reading, it can be taken as a basis for taking into account the comments and suggestions made by the management to its content when preparing for the second reading. Members of the Committee, taking into account the findings of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt a bill on the basis of which the committee is tasked with developing it, taking into account the comments and suggestions of the subject-matters of the right to legislative initiative and bringing it up to date for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the second reading. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u117	Thank you. Dear colleagues, no objection to the committee's proposal? I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Property in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. [[on improving the disposal of military property]] Registration number 7048. [[18:03:19]] For 294 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I propose a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws on natural gas and electricity calculations. Registration number 7115. Governmental. The proposal is to consider it as a simplified procedure. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. [[18:03:51]] For-189 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the first Deputy Minister for Housing and Utilities Samchuk Grigory Mihajlovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u118	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The bill proposes to amend the laws on drinking water, drinking water and heat, which provide for mandatory openings to enterprises with special use for energy consumption calculations, as well as financing of priority obligations for enterprises, including those provided for by valid legislation, such as wages, mandatory payments to the budget, liabilities for credits for manufacturing needs, and so on. The order and features of such calculations will be established by the Cabinet of Ministers, which will allow for a flexible and timely response to changes in modern legislation and the economic situation. I will add that the same approach is applied to electricity calculations under the Electricity Act. The bill is based on the complex financial and economic situation of both energy-efficient companies and utilities, and is aimed at regulating the relationship between these natural monopolies. The adoption and implementation of the project will have a positive impact on the calculation of natural gas and electricity consumption and thus reduce the financial sanctions for residential and utility enterprises associated with the disruption of energy consumption payments will create conditions for improving the quality and reliability of central heating, water management services, especially during the heating season. On my part, there is already considerable positive experience in using accounts with a special utility for natural gas calculations. But the unregulatedness of this issue at the legislative level makes it possible for some enterprises, unfortunately, to avoid such calculations as to destabilize the energy supply of such enterprises. It leads to lower quality of their services and accumulation of debt for energy. There is no alternative in the current financial and technical conditions of the bill. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u119	Thank you. Please sit down. The focal point is the head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Mikola Volodymyrovich Martinenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u120	Dear National Deputies! The PEC Committee considered a bill on the application of the distribution system for the payment of VAT, which at the same time are consumers of electricity and gas for their own production of the specified resources. The idea of using distributed accounts is not new. She was very good at her time in energy when she moved from barter to cash calculations and allowed almost 100 percent of the calculations in the wholesale electricity market. In discussing the bill, both members of the committee and representatives of the NCRE noted that it contains a number of provisions that make it small - acting. There is a question about the level of local self - administration of the heat and drinking water tariffs imposed by the cost of their production, and in this context the possibility of full payment for energy and the payment of at least the wages of the employees of the companies of the JRC, etc. But all of this has to be worked out in preparing the bill for the second reading. In general, the Committee considers it possible to support the legislative proposal and proposes to the Supreme Council to adopt Bill 7115 as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u121	Thank you. Dear colleagues, will there be no objection to putting a committee proposal to the vote? I'm betting on a motion for a committee to adopt as a basis for the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to be adopted as a basis. [[on natural gas and electricity calculations]] [[Registration number 7115]] [[18:08:43]] For 243 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there's another government bill, and there's a government representative present. Let's take a quick look at it and then figure out what to do. No objections? This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the securities market in Ukraine. [[on the order in which duplicates are issued and copies of licences]] [[Registration number 6551]] I suggest you consider it as a reduced procedure. [[18:09:22]] For-183 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the head of the State Commission on Securities and Stock Markets, Dmitry Mikhailovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u122	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable deputies! For your consideration, a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the Securities Market in Ukraine, developed by the State Commission on Securities and Stock Markets to improve the order of issuance of duplicates and copies of licences, as well as certificates of professional activity in the securities market, is proposed. [[Registration number 6551]] The bill amends article 7, paragraph 9, and article 8, paragraph 3, of the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the securities market in Ukraine, which provides for the establishment of salaries for the issuance by the State Commission of securities of duplicate licences, copies of these licences and their transformations, the establishment of fees for the issuance of certificates of professional activity with securities in Ukraine and their duplicates. In doing so, the funds are offered. is intended to be directed to the Country Budget of Ukraine. The introduction of these changes is also explained by the fact that from Ukraine, licenseing certain types of farm activity is intended to pay for the issuance of a duplicate licence. Thus, the adoption of this bill will lead to the harmonization of legislative acts and practices in the Ukrainian stock market. Please. We suggest we take it as a base, and please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u123	Yes, thank you. From the committee, please, Igor Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u124	The distinguished Chairman, distinguished colleagues, at his meeting on 9 October, carefully considered the bill, which was proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers and decided to recommend the bill to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to adopt it as a basis. I therefore ask for the support of the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u125	Stanislaw Arjewitin, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u126	Stanislaw Arzeviteen. In fact, this bill needs to be supported only in the first edition, in the first reading, because the text proposed by the Scientific and Experimental Authority is, in my opinion, more correct and clear than the one proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers. The second norm is that the President has made some proposals for licensing, it would be good for us to implement them too. Well, most importantly, I'd like to go to the commission, the State Commission of Ukraine from securities and stock markets, so that now, while we settle this issue, we don't revoke licenses in some of the licensed activities, those who haven't started their activities during the year need to remember that we're in a crisis right now. Thank you. I offer to support him in his first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m1.u127	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the securities market in Ukraine. [[on the order in which duplicates are issued and copies of licences]] Registration number 6551. Please vote. [[18:13:10]] For 201 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote, please note, the proposal to return to the draft law, please vote. [[Registration number 6551]] On the return to the subject. Similarly, it is not possible to complete a day’s work. [[18:13:36]] For 227 We're back. Now, attention is paid to the vote on acceptance as the basis of the draft Law. [[Registration number 6551]] Please vote. [[6:14:02]] For 232 Decision taken. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
