ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:32]] Cards were registered in the 377 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian National Deputies: the seat of John Ivanovich and Melnik Peter Volodymyrovich. Please welcome our colleagues and wish them life’s and political success. Dear colleagues, I provide information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at plenary meetings on 17 June 2010. Ten questions of the agenda have been considered. Two laws and seven regulations were adopted, three bills were adopted on a basis, and two bills were rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, I offer your attention to the announcement. In accordance with article 61 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, according to a personal application, I hereby report the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputies into the coalition of MPs of the “Stability and Reform” factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call: Borisov Valerija Dmitrovitch, Zwania David Vajajevic, Maruszczenka Vladimir Stanislavovich, Novikov Oleg Volodymyrovich, Horovsky Sergey Yurievich, Shemczuk Viktor Viktorovich. [[Applause]] Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with articles 25 and 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, an hour of questions to the government is held on Friday, from 10 to 11 a.m. Representatives of non-compartment MPs made a proposal: During an hour of questioning to the government, they would listen to information from the Cabinet of Ministers about the progress of investigations into the obstacles to the professional activities of journalists. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine today represents the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine Anatoly Volodymyrovich Mogilov. And he, his respected colleagues, will answer your questions. Vice-Prime Minister Vladimir Leonidovich Sovkovic participates in the meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine take 30 minutes to question the Minister from the MP factions that do not form part of the coalition. The parliamentary faction of the "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" Block, based on part six of article 229 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, notified in advance the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the questions that would be raised during the hour of questions to the government. After the answers to these questions, it is suggested that the rest of the time should be spent answering oral questions from non - members of the coalition. And then take 30 minutes to ask questions and get answers for the national MPs who represent the entire Supreme Council of Ukraine. Is there no objection? I invite you to the rostrum of the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Anatoly Volodymyrovich Mogilov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u2	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I had two questions to answer. Question one: “Explain what you meant when the newspaper interview stated that the Hero of Ukraine Blackwall was being punished for criminal offences? Do such cynical statements correspond to the high office of Minister of Interior?" In answer to that question, I want to point out the following. In Soviet times, it was known that a violent repressive machine was used very effectively to intimidate citizens. Various methods were used to provide the so-called “order” in quotes, including the condemnation of the criminal responsibility of citizens. Similarly, criminal cases were fabricated in relation to persons who had a different opinion on how the State developed. Often they were called to account for committing crimes of general crime, although perhaps the main reason was their political activity. In this context, I answered the journalist. Thank you for your attention. Question two: “For the last time, U.S.S.A. has started to use new technology when opposition along with journalists is pushed away from a rally or protest site, and pre-prepared supporters of today’s authorities are being established. Do such actions of the militia conform to the constitutional principles of the rule of law of democracy? Why are you turning democratic Ukraine into a authoritarian police state?" It has happened that since Ukraine's independence under any government and composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there have been many complaints and accusations about the activities of the police. We have not paid much attention to the National Police Department and today, for which I am most grateful. I believe that the very point of view of the people and their defenders should be decisive in assessing the activities of the Ukrainian law enforcement agencies. I emphasize and ask for only one thing: objectivity. For my part, I assure the audience in this room that there is no new technology in the activities of the U.S.S. Departments, while ensuring the rule of law during actions involving the mass participation of citizens. Law enforcement officials, as always, are in positions of unwavering compliance with Ukrainian law. And if his standards are broken, we will react exclusively by legal means according to our authority. The right to freedom, mass action, is an inalienable right of citizens, as enshrined in the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Principles based on law, respect for rights and freedoms, satisfying moral requirements, social order, and general welfare in a democratic society. In Ukraine today, article 39 of the Ukrainian Constitution guarantees the right of citizens to hold meetings, assemblies, and demonstrations. Restrictions on the exercise of this right can only be established by the court in accordance with the law and only in the interests of national security and public order for the purpose of preventing disturbances or crimes, for the protection of the health of the population or for the protection and rights of the freedoms of other citizens. I want to emphasize, or protect, the rights and freedoms of other citizens. However, the mechanism for implementing this constitutional right of citizens has not yet been regulated by legislation. At present, there is a bill of mass action in the Supreme Council, and I think its adoption will accelerate the resolution of this issue at the legislative level. Today, the police are governed by the laws in force. In particular, according to article 2, “Basic tasks of the police” of the Ukrainian Police Act, the main tasks of the internal affairs bodies are to ensure the safety of citizens and public order, to prevent and stop violations. During my tenure as Ukraine’s minister of internal affairs, there were 80,000 mass efforts in the country, involving more than 33 million people. So every day, on average, there are almost 800 different actions involving more than 32,000 citizens. And on each of them, we need to ensure the rule of law. During this period, more than 290,000 members of the police and internal affairs officers were involved in the protection of public order. The number of employees involved in public order during mass action distracts them from carrying out their basic tasks in the area of crime detection and the fight against crime. The vast majority of mass measures go beyond the day of the week, and all expenses go solely to the budget of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, including to assist in ensuring the rule of law in other areas of the state. These dry figures do not reflect the actual work of internal affairs authorities in ensuring the rule of law and security of the given measures. The work of the police starts with the receipt of a message to local government authorities, and then the work meetings with interested persons are held by local authorities, action organizers, MNS units, medical facilities, and so on. In order to address the priority tasks of ensuring that citizens exercise their constitutional rights. At the same time, an explanatory work is being done to comply with the requirements of applicable legislation, their official warning against violations of the law, and their consequences for noncompliance. Based on the information received, the state of the situation, the possible development of events, the categories of participants, their numbers and moods, the internal affairs authorities are developing appropriate plans, and the calculation of forces and resources is determined by senior operational managers. I would like to point out that the concerted activities of law enforcement agencies and, above all, the police in Ukraine have prevented the loss of citizens during mass action and protests. But we've seen what happened in other countries of Europe, during protests, when group violations of public order turn into mass upheavals and the devastating consequences. An example of this is the events in Greece in 2008 in 2010, in France in 2009. This year, the Ministry of Internal Affairs has registered 15 violations of public order during mass action, nine of which have blocked transport communications, in these cases three criminal cases. This city of Kyiv, on April 27, this year, during the protest campaign, was blocked from the street, on April 22, 10, in Cherkas, the shareholders blocked the street, and the events during the documentary exhibition “Volinska diffa” by Polish and Jewish victims of UN-UPA in the premises of the “Ukrainian House” State Enterprise, which took place on April 8th of this year. We are aware of the responsibility of mass action in particular, but the responsibility of a militiaman, I stress once again, a militiaman, may arise both for action and for inactivity when it was necessary to intervene in a particular situation with a view to localizing it. This is required by article 11 of the Criminal Code. So to blame me for the fact that the police were a lot, or she was in the wrong place, I think is groundless. With regard to specific cases during the actions of the President of Ukraine and other protected persons. I point out to you that restrictions on the movement of citizens in the immediate vicinity of the object are being imposed in accordance with the Ukrainian Act on the State Protection of Ukrainian Government Authorities and Officials by employees of the Ukrainian State Protection Authority. And at such measures, there is a constant definition of a regulatory area with appropriate restricted entry. The way in which the Ministry of Internal Affairs interacts with the Office of State Security and the Ukrainian Security Service in the implementation of State protection is determined by the instructions. This is a joint order of the 99th year. The charges that police officers have evicted someone from the rally sites or protest actions are unfounded. Because, in accordance with article 11, paragraph 20, “The rights of the police” of the Ukrainian Police Act, the police have the right to temporarily restrict or prohibit access to individual areas of the territory or objects for the purpose of ensuring public order, public safety, life and health, to prevent group violations of public order and to any other conflict between political forces that have different views on the development of society. This is the world experience of law enforcement in all civilized countries. From what I've said, I don't think there's any reason for today to accuse the police of violating democratic principles and, more importantly, prejudice towards any political power. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, written questions are exhausted. Please register with the non-composition factions for a question. “Our Ukraine” too, everyone register. Dear colleagues, let's take it easy. National Deputy Hassuk, Timoshenko Street.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u4	I'm here. Please say, according to the statistics, more than 200,000 crimes have been committed in Ukraine in the past five months. However, only 1,000,381 of them are considered to be criminal organized groups, about 0.06 percent of the total. And these numbers raise great doubts, because we hear very often about murder orders, explosions, other crimes that can't be organized by individual criminals. Can you correct these data? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u5	Thank you for asking. You touched on the subject of statistics on common crime in the country. I've already talked about it, and I want to say it in the Supreme Council Hall. At present, statistics that are generally criminal in the country are highly questionable about their objectivity. This is due to the fact that, due to certain objective and subjective factors, such as the demand for statistics required for militia personnel, statistics are quite perverse. According to my estimates, about 30 per cent of crimes in the country are latent, i.e. hidden from accounting at all. I can give an example of this based on the statistics we have this year. See, only this year did we institute criminal proceedings last year, that is, in 2009, such cases were initiated in the country in the last quarter of the 13 thousand 218 -- that is a very large figure, that is about 6 per cent of the total number of crimes in the country. That is, even the growth that is available is due to the fact that we have become more clear and objective in responding to citizens' statements. Of these 13,000 crimes, which I said were committed last year, and which were committed last year, 29 of them, which in principle would be very difficult to conceal, 121 serious bodily injuries, 397 robberies and 86 robberies, I am no longer talking about the rest of the thefts. Therefore, it is not possible to speak of the reality of statistics to date. To date, the Ministry of Internal Affairs has been tasked with responding adequately to every citizen's statement to the police. Adequate! Because before that, for various reasons, most of the statements were simply not taken into account, part of the statements were kept awake: either the wrong qualification or the decision to refuse to institute a criminal case was taken. A citizen who turned to the police for 10 days after his application had been filed, he was informed that they were refusing to initiate criminal proceedings.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u6	Finish up, please. Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u7	Therefore, it is now a very difficult task to respond to each statement and to register each statement. I think this will allow us to bring the country's overall criminal statistics into line with the realities of today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u8	Mustafa Jemilov, Jemilev, Cemilov. The faction “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u9	Thank you. Mr. Minister, as chief of police in Crimea, before your formal release from office, you published an article in the newspaper Crimea Truth, entitled “The Crimea will see the conflict through the Kosovo scenario”, which contains harsh images of the Crimean Tatar people, as well as full justification for the Stalinic departments of the people of Ukraine. In particular, it says: “There is a disgraceful page to the modern history of the Crimean Tatar people. Mass treachery during the Great Homeland War. Crimea is a border territory that is strategically important to the people. And having an enemy in the immediate rear would be extremely unwise and reckless. On the basis of these considerations, also in the summer of 41, 52,000 Germans were deported from Crimea.”
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u10	Complete your questions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u11	Okay. After your appointment as minister, this article was reprinted by many publications, including foreign publications. In addition, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, 14 representatives from 12 countries, addressed, with an open statement, where they identified their misunderstanding as such, could lead.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u12	Thank you. Please, Anatoly Volodymyrovich, you can answer. Dear colleagues! One minute, two minutes, you can do the whole performance. There'll be time for that. Well, we agreed to keep going. Dear colleagues! Well, two minutes was a possibility. Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u13	Dear People's Deputies, Jamilev, you often accuse me of excessive rigour in addressing these issues. You remember when you accused me of being an A.P.A., that there was a police force under the leadership of Mohilev that acted very hard. I'm going to read you a statement from the order issued by my predecessor. This is Order 115 of 4 February 2009. Everybody remembers what happened on I.P., you all remember them, remember how there were bottles of lighter mixture, and how there was a cylinder of gas pearls in the skeleton. Do you think a bottle with an incendiary mixture or a gas cylinder, which is a weapon? In principle, yes. I'll answer that question, I'm talking about the charge. This is how I read the Public Order Guidelines issued by Yuri Vitalevich Lucenko in 2009: “In exceptional cases, those who use weapons are affected by targeted sniper fire on the basis of article 15 of the Ukrainian Police Act. I mean, that's where I was supposed to use the snipers' target fire, which they didn't do. Now, about the article. I didn't justify the deportation there. I don't need to overturn the facts. I said that the measures taken by the Stalin regime at the time were not as extreme, rigid, to speak of the particular abuse of the entire population. At that time, entire villages of Ukrainians, Russians from Ukraine, migrated to the final north, Siberia and camps. This has all taken place under that Stalin regime. I wasn't justifying it, I was just saying that it was, you know, happening, not justifying it. It's just a misrepresentation of facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u14	Andrey Pavlovski, faction of the “Blanket of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u15	Andrew Pavlovsky. Please pass the word to Roman Zabzaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u16	Roman Zabzaluk, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u17	Mr. Secretary, judging from your recent speech on television, you are more concerned about the rising drum gulp under the windows of a fair citizen protesting the construction and attempted construction of dictatorship in our country and the transformation of the police into a gendarmerie organ. Yet you have three questions. First. How do you personally view the fact that in Parliament today, most people block such an important law that provides for a declaration of officials on income and expenditure? That's the first question. The second question. Your position and, of course, this is the first time you've heard that today, at the level of district administrations of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, there's a record of what's called an untrustworthy, actually opposition activists. Yeah, it's the first time you've heard that, yes, although it was agreed with the Ministry that these issues were agreed upon.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u18	And your third question. And the third question, you said.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u19	Yeah. Of course, it's just as news to you that, unfortunately, the internal affairs authorities are now involved in lining up small, medium-sized businesses. In particular, of course, you don't know the same thing, for example, from every expert tone in ports today, IMF employees are taking from 70 cents to 1.5 dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u20	Thank you for asking. I answer, so to speak, on the order of these questions. First. With regard to comments on Parliament's adoption of laws, this is the role of Parliament, the task of Parliament. I think it's inappropriate to adjust when these laws are adopted. From my point of view, it's inappropriate to express it softly. Now the second one. With regard to the establishment of, and work on, any lists of opposition. The militia has dealt with and will deal with all those who engage in illegal activities. This is a task that the President has set, regardless of color, white, red, green, blue or something else. Everyone will have the same answer before the law. I can give you an example. Only by the police this month have I arrested, at my insistence, the procurator's office, the deputy chief of the D.O.D., the chief of the G.A.I. district, the heads of the raids. They are those who have always been considered untouchable, including if they are individuals associated with a political force, they too will be held accountable. That's the answer to the question you're talking about. This will continue on a permanent basis, we will establish the rule of law in the country, and all the rules of law will be enforced. Now, about the drum fight you're talking about. Indeed, everyone has the right to protest, but this right ends where the rights of others are violated. The rights of others cannot be violated! And every citizen has the right to a peaceful life in the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u21	Alexander Bondar's handing over the right to raise the issue to Jaroslav Jojik. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u22	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Minister, according to the law-enforcement organization, an international amnesty of every 14 citizens of Ukraine was a victim of torture by law enforcement agencies. The last event that struck the entire country is the death of 19-year-old student Igor Indil. Do you not think that the most effective way to eliminate the possibility of beating and torturing Ukrainian citizens is to discover a detention and interrogation centre that will be subordinated to the Ministry of Justice and in this center everything will be recorded in video and audio? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u23	Well, to be honest, I'm not ready to talk about such a legislative initiative. I believe that members of Parliament have the right to submit such a bill, to consider it and to adopt it. I just don't know how much it's gonna be. What financial costs this will require. Now, with regard to the sad case. the tragic death of a student in the Shevchenkov administration. In this regard, all the records of official investigations have been collected. On my instructions, all personnel involved have been removed from the posts for the period of completion of the investigation. So to speak, the former in the administration at the time. All materials are currently in the Office of the Attorney-General. The return is under the supervision of the Attorney-General's Office, and the materials are in the Office of the Prosecutor of the City of Kiev. The final procedural decision will be taken by the Kyiv Prosecutor's Office under the supervision or supervision of the Attorney General's Office. The final decision that will be taken will never be protected by any militia officer who has violated the law. Moreover, the management of the Ministry of Internal Affairs makes it a strict rule that any police officer, given that he is a guardian of the rule of law, is more responsible for order than a civilian. And if such persons are found guilty, they will be punished directly to one. But if the integrity of the militia is proven, I will, of course, protect them if they are innocent. They'll be guilty, I'll be responsible. There will be no one to cover the leadership of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and that will never happen again. I've already stated this, and I've declared that I don't think it's necessary to protect the uniform's honor. Right now, the earrings, the MVD uniform needs to be cleaned. Oh, my God. In recent years, it has become so rigid, not rigid. It's a telecommunication, let's say, system in the M.V.A. when it's all pierced by corrupt schemes from top to bottom. That's why I issued an order under number 90 on collective responsibility for the alleged violation of the entire chain of leaders up there to break the corruption chains going down.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u24	Andrew Schewch. Sanchenko, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u25	Thank you. Mr. Minister, you said correctly that police officers should be held accountable for their actions. Last week, the Office of the Commissioner for Human Rights was checked with regard to the conditions of detention of the arrested Kotelnikov, who is diagnosed with an ischaemic stroke at the Saxon Mountain Hospital. It was determined that 22 days had been held with a handcuffed stroke, 22 days had not been turned off in the Chamber, 22 days had not been allowed to pass everything except water, and the head of the Sack Police Department had decided to give medication or not to give a diagnosis of a stroke. I ask you, when will this person be held responsible under the law of torture? The Office of the Commissioner noted that torture was taking place. Continuation of this question: Mr. Fedorian, deputy head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in Crimea, has personally ordered it on the telephone, so to speak, has not been denied, ordered not to release a lawyer, 22 days have not been allowed.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u26	Yes, please finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u27	If possible, the second short question: Your subordinates – OBEP Crimea has been terrorizing Black Sea Broadcasting for a week with requests, including threats, requests for extradition, well, the amount of documents that cannot be substantiated, no cross-checks. Is it just a lack of skills at the bottom or an attempt at pressure on independent media? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u28	Well, question number one on the Saxon incident that's taking place. If we receive such material from, from the authority you spoke, it will be subject to official investigation by all persons, if the perpetrators are there, we will understand and respond to all these persons in an objective manner. No questions asked, I'm ready to take it from you. Now, about the radio company. Thank you, thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, that shows you, I don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u29	Yes, please, I beg of you, Your Honor, let's follow the proper procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u30	Now, with regard to the verification of television companies or other verifications carried out by police officers in certain areas. This is one of the main functions of the police — to carry out such inspections. Therefore, if there is a question of their validity, it is necessary to contact the Public Prosecutor's Office, which oversees the police. It will establish the legality or illegality of such acts. That's the first one. Now second, with regard to the Black Sea, given that I am from Crimea, I can say that there have been violations established by the court in the activities of the Black Sea. Therefore, these facts may be verified. Maybe. Therefore, if you feel that an inspection is carried out incorrectly or improperly, you have the right to appeal to the Public Prosecutor's Office. Thank you. On that point, I'll deal with it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u31	Stanislaw Arzhevtin, faction “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u32	Please report to Deputy Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u33	Vladimir Karpuk, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u34	Vladimir Karpuk, faction of our Ukraine. Mr. Minister, on June 15th, this Tuesday, an extraordinary event took place near the Court of Appeal of Volin County, when the Court of Appeal decided to release the head of the agricultural enterprise. Right after he got out of court he was again, trying to arrest him by the IMF. The people in the company stood up for their leader. Militia units have used crude physical force, including Berkut, ten people have been injured, two of whom have been hospitalized. And the tear gas was used. It's an inadequate response. Inadequate response was also made last year in the village of Dragovo in the district of Zacarpathia, where a request was made by Deputy Arzvetina. So far, no answer. We're waiting for your intervention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u35	Thank you for asking. An official investigation will be carried out on this point. We will report our reaction to these facts. If there was a violation of the law, the measures would be taken again. On the other hand, if this has been done in compliance with the law, the militia, the ears, sometimes have to take repressive measures against offenders. Oh, that's right. Now, here's what happened last year and so on. At all the meetings that I have conducted recently on the territorial bodies in the OIA areas, I explain to everyone what needs to be changed in the IMF system. What should be at the forefront of all police activities is the values enshrined in our Constitution, in particular those of human rights and freedoms. In recent years, all the reform of the IMF system has taken place in words, but not in reality. As a result, all police figures, all police demands were built on Soviet measures when the interests of the totalitarian State at the time were at the top of the agenda. Therefore, this process of restructuring to protect the rights and freedoms of the individual goes to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and we will bring it to a logical conclusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u36	Vladimir Bondarenko, BUTT frequency, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u37	Vladimir Bondarenko, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", the “Reforms and Orders” party. The last sentence, Mr. Minister, your last sentence will probably correct my question. Because you said before that we would do everything we could to achieve the rule of law. In his day with Stalin was such a prosecutor of Vishinsky, who acted on the principles of the rule of law. The whole world today is living under the rule of law. So let's make some adjustments to our activities, and above all, the IMF is in the law enforcement system. And that's why we need to be governed by the rule of law. And the second question. You're saying that you're very harsh about violating Ukrainian law enforcement. I'd like to ask you two questions. Is anyone attracted to watching journalists, to the actual beating of a journalist who was beaten, thrown to the ground with a camera together. Then there's the second question. Article 33 of the Constitution guarantees the free movement of citizens throughout Ukraine. Hundreds or thousands of militiamen were involved in roadblocks as the rally took place.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u38	Complete the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u39	Give me two words. When there were rallies here in Kiev. Who is drawn to responsibility by those who have blocked buses by various methods of State inspection, including by calm ones, have warned people, we have dozens of statements on this subject, ready to pass them on to you, and please consider and call to account those who violate the 33rd article of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u40	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u41	I thank you for explaining the concepts of “law” and “law”, thank you. Now, about mass stock. I'm answering the second question I read to you, you probably didn't listen very carefully. I have said that the police have the right to restrict individuals'access to separate zones in mass activities, in accordance with the requirements of the Police Act. In accordance with the rules of this law, we act to prevent the violation of public order, and God forbid, the injury of people. If anyone wants some kind of mass action to be fought, blood to be spilled, there will be no such thing, law or law must prevail in the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u42	Dear colleagues! Now, please note, I would like to ask all members of the national parliament, if there are any questions for the Minister of Internal Affairs to make a record in order to obtain such an opportunity. It is recorded to the minister of all national deputies as requested. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Lukyanov Vladislav, faction of the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u43	Dear Mr. Secretary! I'd like to ask you a question, did you come to the Ministry a year ago, the previous minister was just making fun of the police, how do you feel there's a staff loss, there's damage to the image of the militia from the previous team? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u44	Thank you for asking. You know, I didn't want to evaluate the work of the predecessors in any way, I'm going to evaluate the system myself, because I don't want to talk about the work of the predecessors. In the very structure of the Ministry of Internal Affairs at this time, what we've received from the Ministry of Internal Affairs as it is is is what causes, in a mild way, horror. A complete management system has been destroyed, it is the most terrifying, and the complete irresponsibility of all persons for the final work has been imposed. This has caused all of the violations that we talked about last year and this year. We are now restoring this management system, we are dealing with the personnel security of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, because. I'll give you the simplest example. To date, 1,000 127 investigators, the need, the number of vacancies for today's 620, have been issued by the Ministry of Public Education. Where the rest of us will think, and this is a huge amount of funding spent on training these professionals and taking them to work. This is a complete lack of planning for years ahead, and instead a talk show and a show of clowning. We need to do specific work, we're doing this.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u45	Katerina Vaschuk, Lithuanian Block faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u46	Please pass the word to Zarubin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u47	Oleg Zarubin microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u48	Dear Anatoly Volodymyrovich, a policy aimed at hard cleansing the ranks of the militia themselves, and against illegal actions, it's the right policy. The only thing that makes this a real policy, a strategy, not just a company, is that it's very important that these were constant actions. Only in these circumstances can trust the population to the police, as is respected by a police officer in Britain, for example, you know clearly. And in this context, I have a question, and on the other hand, the protection of the police itself, the protection of those who are called upon to protect others. In this regard, I have a question about the fate of Colonel Skin, who, you see, showed one high - ranking owner the wrong way when both were involved in the traffic. By the way, one and the other were driving alone, without a trial, without an investigation by a colonel with many decades of experience. What is it, the attitude of the police?Oh, my God! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u49	Thank you for asking, that's the question. You have a minister standing in front of me, on 19 December 2007, Timoshenko's government is handing out an honorary license for productive work, and after two days I'm fired, well, from my post, I'm being held in custody, then fired for discreditation, for example, after which I didn't even work anymore. So that's the answer, I'm not going to talk about Colonel Skin, I'm talking about myself, about the general standing in front of you. Now, with regard to the protection of militia personnel. In fact, to date, police officers from all power structures are paid the lowest wage. As a result, the competitiveness of the duty to join the police is minimal and, as a result, again, the ews, the number of people we are taking into the police are not in line with the requirements to be applied to militia personnel. I therefore asked the leadership of the country about the need to raise at least the minimum wage for the police, to bring it to the salaries of all other force agencies so that we could choose our own staff on a competitive basis. That's a very big subject. And in recent years, the Ministry of Internal Affairs has brought the system down in general, and since 2004 it has virtually stopped buying equipment, I mean car technology, special equipment, stopped buying uniforms for militia personnel, so the state of logistics in the police is in a terrible state. What's more, recent computerization measures have been taken, so to speak, and the establishment of an internal communications system within the IMF system has spent a lot of money on this, you know what I'm talking about, who's been involved in the telecommunication systems around the Ministry of Internal Affairs. And now the private structure has control over the MVD communications system and can shut it down at any time. The same system in the GAI system, computerized accounting of all vehicles and so on. Private structures have the right to intrude. In order to reform and put it in place, it takes a lot of funding and I think we will be setting it up next year.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u50	Demidko, faction of the Party of the Regions. He's giving up the word, isn't he? Jaroslav Kenzior, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u51	Jaroslav Kenzior, “For Ukraine!” Mr. Minister, there is some strange trend in the government and in today's government, starting with the President. The president is constantly confused in geography, confusing Slovakia with Slovenia. You moved Hyde Park somewhere outside of a big city. You've never been to London and you don't know where Hyde Park is? Where you propose to move these discussions, the rallies, to the Hyde Park pattern. And one more thing. You're confused. You recently spoke about the same fate as Yanukovich and Chernobyl. Chernobyl was sitting and Yanukovich was sitting. Do you understand today the difference between a political prisoner and a criminal prisoner? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u52	Well, if we start talking about, so to speak, articles, I don't want to talk about the articles of the distinguished Mr. Cranovil. That's the first one. Now, with regard to the London facilities you're talking about. If you find a single statement about this somewhere, I'll write a resignation report right away. Mogilev didn't say that anywhere. Those words were added to my interview. I didn't say that anywhere. So don't blame me for not knowing London's geography.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u53	National MP Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u54	Now, as far as crime is concerned, you're referring to articles. I don't think it's possible to talk about articles, including Chernobyl, about his crimes here in this room. And as any normal citizen of Ukraine, I respect the President of the country, who is publicly elected.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u55	National MP Blackwolf, microphone. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please calm down. Please calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u56	Dear Mr. Minister! Do you treat the heroes of Ukraine with respect? And please pass the word to Deputy Heratchenko on to the next question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u57	Irina Heratschenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u58	Minister, I have three questions for you. First. I want to go back to the problem of tracking journalists. I want to remind you that the story of the murder of journalist Gongadze began with his open letter to the Attorney General, where he also said that the cars were watching him. And we know there were police officers there. You have an open letter today from the director general of TV. Similarly, there are statements by the management of the “5 channel” which are being monitored. This is a very dangerous subject, and we would like to hear a serious reaction from you. The second question. How do you feel about blocking the movement when the President's cruise is going on and so forth, and the whole city is standing? In fact, no Ukrainian law provides for this today, and we would like this shameful practice to cease.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u59	Please complete your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u60	We wanted the DAI to stop blocking the President's movement. And the last. You said today's main criterion for you is the amount of crime. In fact, we think we need to talk about quality. Because while you were working in the Crimea militia, you were just getting fired for leading the case of the discovery of the Eupatoria maniac, and at first you were convicted of a man who wasn't involved. Perhaps we should talk about quality rather than the number of investigations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u61	I need a pen to record everything. Question one, about watching the press, is what you're talking about. At present, monitoring is not illegal at all, in principle. That's why it's all someone's insinuation. Lucenko thinks they're watching him, someone else thinks they're watching him. There are no such facts. If you are aware of such facts, it is necessary to contact the General, again, the Public Prosecutor's Office, which oversees the police, which can verify the conduct of all the search operations. Point on that point. Let's not even talk about it anymore. Now, with regard to escorting the President's corps. There is a Protection of Persons Act in Ukraine. Under this Act, the Office of State Protection is to conduct the regime zones, conduct various security activities and so on in accordance with this Act. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u62	And it prevents the Chinese from fighting drums on the street.?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u63	Kovalevska National Deputy, faction of the Party of Regions, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u64	Give the word to Gusarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u65	Dear comrade Minister, allow me to speak. Gusarov, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u66	I said National Deputy, Kovalevska. Oh, please say it like that. People's MP Gusarov, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u67	The Comrade Minister, it is known that one of the most important tasks of the internal affairs bodies is to ensure the protection of public order, to combat crime and that training, education and placement are very important. Is this your vision of human resources policy as a minister, as colleagues? And the second question is that it is very important to take account of and respond to allegations of crimes. Like you, as colleagues, your approaches and whether you are in a position to ensure that you travel to the scene and respond fully to the allegations made by the citizens of the incident. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u68	Thank you, Sergey Nikolaevich. Question one concerning the education system in the Ministry of Education. Well, what she's pretending to be today is, well, softly expressed, some kind of superstructure, built up, that eats up a lot of money, but it doesn't work, you know. There are currently 16 higher education institutions in the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and in my view, in recent years it has been established under individual, retired generals and individual higher education institutions. As a result, we get the most expensive specialist in the MVD system and not the best. In this regard, a special group has now been set up with the Ministry of Education, jointly with the Ministry of Education, by a joint order for the reform of the Ministry of Education of Ukraine's education system. I think that a vision of it will enable us to receive better training from professionals with less cost for the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Now, with regard to the registration of crimes and the departure to the scene. With me coming to the post of Minister and current colleagues of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, this is at the top of the agenda and at the top of the work, an adequate response to citizens' statements. Uh, so far, we haven't had a full registration of all the crimes in the Ministry of Internal Affairs, U.S.A. As a result, most people did not receive an adequate response to their allegations to the police, and five, 10 days later, they received a write-off or nothing at all. That's why I've given you these figures that only this year have we initiated citizens' allegations of crimes of the past, more than 13.5,000 crimes. It's essentially a very large number, 13.5,000. If you take the graphs. Reported there to reduce the number of killings every year, i.e. to take a kill-reduction schedule, that the missing persons' schedule goes backwards. If you put two of them together, it's going to be about the same line, so negative things started to happen, so to speak, under the envelope, so that you don't show them. Now, with regard to the departure to the scene. This.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u69	Please let me finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u70	This is perhaps the biggest problem given the difficult logistical situation. Support or security of internal affairs bodies. We do not even receive the minimum necessary to ensure a normal life. Well, if there's an on-call car in the city or in the area, if you take Gosbudget, where we're supposed to buy it, about a liter of gas per car per day, can you talk about something? I am not saying that about half of the MVD's car park is cars that have to be written off, and they don't work much. The result is that, at individual locations in private cars, police officers travel to crash sites for fixation. This naturally affects the quality of the collection of materials, the quality of work on certain types of crimes and ultimately the outcome of the police work.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u71	Vadim Koleschenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u72	Mr. Minister, on 11 June this year, an offence was committed in Odessa. ATV “Prionaz”, “The City”, the Timer Internet publication, which carried out professional activities, carried out an armed attack by Mr. Uberia, Deputy Minister Odessa Gurvica. We are. I'm personally grateful to you and the press for the fact that the police worked quickly, apprehended the perpetrator, arrested, investigated. This is certainly your credit, the Ministry's credit for the struggle to protect freedom and human rights. However, the previous power under the leadership of Minister Lucenko in Odessa covered gang violence against members of the media. On 30 January last year, an attack was carried out during the shooting of a nearby Odessa measure against the City television company. In the presence of militia and city officials, cameras were taken from the camera crew, damaged, and the tape disappeared. The event, the results are unknown. Next. 29 September 2009 during the video recording during the district administrative session.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u73	Please complete the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u74	During the TV shoots, we had an ITV attack on a group of masked individuals who worked with militia personnel. When it was doubted that police officers had the right to cooperate with people in masks, the operator was attacked using cold weapons, the video camera was damaged, and the video camera disappeared. He led the attack on ITV employees, Mr. Kievsky RAVD Deputy in the Odessa region of Vasily Pasulko. During that time, the Chief of the Odessa Police Department, Edward Dobrinin, arrived and ordered it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u75	Questions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u76	I'm done. I have a question. First, would your department be able to investigate the crime of the previous minister and his accomplices who destroyed freedom of speech? And what's your assessment: how could that be? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u77	Vadim Vasilevich, just give me those materials. I'll just run a background check on them so I can then answer you adequately on this. Now, with regard to informing journalists, working with them and so on. This is Stognye, the minister's advisor for, say, media relations. He can confirm that, in the case of the former authorities, the U.S.O.C.C. provided guidance to the public relations centres on the prohibition of the transmission of information to individual media and only to special media. That's what the groan can confirm. On this point, we carried out a review. For all these facts, we are carrying out verifications. Those persons who have been involved in such unlawful instructions are subject to disciplinary measures until they have been dismissed from the internal affairs authorities. That's why we're doing this cleaning.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u78	Valerius Beales, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u79	Dear Anatoly Volodymyrovich, who has been introduced to Nurgaliev, Minister of Interior of the Russian Federation, for days. In his presentation, he brought in a number of figures that raise, as it were, serious questions. Well, for example, he said that 1 out of every 10 police officers in Russia needed serious psychiatric help, that the Russian Federation introduced over a year thousands of self-sufficient leaders, and more than that, in the year 9 in the Russian Federation, three hundred suicides were committed by militia personnel. I wouldn't want to be a parallel, but what's happening to us in our revenge? And what should the Ministry of Internal Affairs be doing to reduce such facts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u80	I agree with you, this is a problem that exists in the Ukrainian militia system, we have the facts of suicide among the personnel. For each of them, checks and basic, so to speak, calls for such acts, suicides are low cash content of militia personnel, problems at the home level. That is to say, the problem can only be solved by increasing the financial content of police personnel, given the enormous psychoemotional burdens experienced by the police. This is the first problem we have. Two, yes. This system of psychologists that exists in the Ministry of Internal Affairs, in my view, does not meet today's requirements. You know, it just so happens that people are assigned to this service, let's say, people, well, if you could say, "on the mud," that is, someone's family or someone you know. As a result, the level of this service cannot be said at this time. Therefore, the system, when we reform our education system, will provide for the training of psychologists in order to enable them to carry out an adequate psychological correction of our personnel, who are subject to certain, so to speak, psycho-emotional pressures and quite large. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u81	Valentina Matviev, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u82	Please pass the word to Mikoli Kravchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u83	Mikola Kravchenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u84	Kravchenko, Communist faction, President of the All-Ukrainian Union for the Protection of Drivers' Rights, Donetsk Region. I have a question for you, Anatoly Vladimirovich, a mass of letters going on about a future survey, and people are losing where they go, in the militia, at private maintenance stations? I would consider it necessary for your mouth in the media to speak, well, let's talk about final information on how this issue will be resolved. And as a line. I want to tell our voters that this concert is being hosted by nationalists in the hall today. Well, in the end, doesn't the population remember or we don't remember how the Earth Code as a cabinet hulker was adopted, how troops were brought under the dome of the Supreme Council and pushed MPs out.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u85	Finish the question, what's the question?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u86	And I asked the minister a question. I want the voters to know how the chameleons change their skin when they smell hot. It is a matter of repenting for their support of the Yushchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u87	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u88	To your question on the GAI system. This is one of the problems of the police, it is the provision of services to the population. If the main service provided by the police is to protect the rights and freedoms of citizens, to respond to abuses against citizens, the police also provide services to the GAI licensing, passport and service system. We had a special meeting with the GAI, there were a number of problems related to registration of vehicles and the issuance of driving permits and the conduct of a technical inspection. We are now reforming this system, and we will publish the outcome document and publish it in the press. This is how we have conducted a pilot project in Simferopol, Kiev and Donetsk. It's like a person who comes to buy a car in an official dealer's lounge could come and pay for the money and get the keys, the equipment, the number and get out of there, so to speak, so to speak, the GAI system after that. This reform is being implemented in the provision of services, services provided by the Ministry of Internal Affairs to ensure that they are as clear, understandable, transparent and minimized as possible for the provision of these services. This is the work of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. This is one of the priorities or blocks the police are working on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u89	Demchisin National Deputy, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u90	Please pass the word to Chechev Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u91	Mikhailo Chechetov, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u92	Dear Anatoly Vladimirovich! We know and have seen virtually the total destruction of the militia started since 2005. The best personnel were taken away, the police turned into a machine of political persecution, political repression, a machine that served the interests of certain political forces and political movements, political leaders. We know you're a cop to a guest's brain. We have deep respect for you, and we believe in you, and we believe in what you do. Tell me, what are you doing now to restore the former glory of the militia she possessed when she was led by the legendary Minister of the Interior, the late Yuri Kravchenko? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u93	Thank you for asking. At the moment, what you've said is that the police have turned into a tool for dispersal of something other than that, they've turned the police into a pump that sucks people's finances. Oh, my God. And I have to argue this because these corrupt chains that were stacked from the bottom about financial flows that were sucked out of the people simply and sat up. We're cutting these chains right now. That is why I have imposed the responsibility of the leaders for my three-tier subordinates. Here's an example, I've been asked, that when the Deputy Head of the Department of Internal Affairs of Ternopolis was arrested for committing a criminal offence. The head of the DMV area was removed because he had appointed him. And it'll be a responsibility for the boss to know that if he's in charge of any money, that's for the money. His captures will be the same as his. Therefore, this chain of corruption links in the militia system is now being disrupted. A professional nuclear that, uh, in the militia is destroyed, I'd say, is not destroyed -- it's ruined. That's the worst part. We are now conducting a whole complex, I can talk about it for an hour or more, we are conducting a whole range of activities in different directions, to normalize the situation in the militia, to restore the confidence of the people in the police, so that they can look in the eyes of all people adequately or honestly, responding adequately to a citizen's statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u94	Yuri Baldiriev, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u95	Dear Anatoly Vladimirovich! First of all, allow me to thank you on behalf of the parents of those children who are fortunately unable to buy tobacco mixtures. I have been approached by a group of parents on this matter, thank you for your rapid rapid response to this issue. But the question of game-dependent activities remains, please tell us what you are planning, what are you planning to do to stop illegal game activity in the country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u96	You know that game activity is now more out of cash, it's gone to the Internet. To this end, the Ministry of Internal Affairs is currently establishing a cybercrime department, which will deal with this issue so that we can more adequately influence this gaming activity in the Internet, in the area of global networks. That is why we are doing this work. Moreover, with the adoption of the Act on the Elimination of the Game Business, he, we know he stayed, we know who he is, and we are now doing the circumcision of all of them, according to the points that flow there. This is what we have done, with regard to smoking mixtures, we have introduced this document to Kabmin, and it has been adopted by Kabmin to list all of these pots of smoking on the list of narcotics. And such a process must be carried out on a daily basis, each day, with new drugs, new tools that must be brought there at all times. This is under the control of the EBA department and we will continuously improve this list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u97	Lilia Grigorovich, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u98	Lilia Grigorovich, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear Mr. Minister! Here you were asked, about what was five years ago, ten years ago, I'll tell you about another, soon there'll be 40 from the day of death, an unexplained, tragic student named Indillo. You've been asked many times about how the opposition MP would obviously comment on this and outdoing the authorities, and I'm going to do it, but I'm going to ask you as a person. Please tell me if you understand that in Greece all these disturbances began after the murder of a young man, by law enforcement authorities who exceeded their authority. I want to ask if we should just capture our employees because we're talking psychological overload here, so don't let them relax on people. Because instead of laying hands on your president and the authorities, it turns out that the police are putting up a big pig. So I'd like to call you again, not just during the investigation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u99	Please finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u100	It is not just during the investigation that such psychologically complex people should be released from service. Because the student did not die during the force campaign, when armed militias went to the student, the student died in the premises of the Shevchenkov S.I.O. So I insist that they be released already, and they've gone too far.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u101	Thank you for asking. As a man as a father, I agree with you absolutely on this, but there is another notion of innocence. I can't blame anyone until he's found guilty, so we're waiting for the D.A.'s findings on this matter. We have all presented the material there, the decision of the Public Prosecutor's Office that it will take, will be final and decided upon, and will take strict measures at the end of it. Moreover, I will tell you that all the last meetings I hold in the fields, here I explain that the actions of police personnel in any situation must be adequate to the crimes committed by a person. There is much to be done on this issue, but action must be adequate. And I explain to all the workers, by literally killing in the head, that human rights, freedom, and human life are all the more important things in the State. We break this stereotype of thinking that no one has touched. The level of death in our IVS system or in the cells of the detainees, it's about, not roughly, it's a little lower this year than it was last year. We have to achieve this zero assessment of the case at all, because the minds, to break the psychology of the staff are very difficult, not enough, but very hard. But I'll tell you this: at present, the Ministry's leadership is very hard on the minor violations of the rule of law on the part of our employees. Any minor, even minor, violation of the law receives a very strict assessment, both for the person who committed it and for its leaders, in order to increase the responsibility of the leaders for their subordinates. As a result of the audit, adequate measures will be taken in accordance with the responsibility of everyone, as will be established by the Public Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u102	Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u103	Anatoly Volodymyrovich, I'm asking you one last question. It's not a question, it's advice. Believe me, in recent years, when I was President Leonid Kuchma, Victor Yushchenko, I have studied all the documents relating to the protection of the highest officials, they are composed, you said correctly, of the law and of the documents that are regulated “not for official use”. And my advice is very simple. So it comes down to the next problem, you'll see the Head of the Security Service and the UDA, say hello and say that if the President's protection continues to be carried out as it is today, you're demeaning, or those who are engaged, the President, you're demeaning, and you're humiliating Ukraine. Because if the day-to-day officials, starting with the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, claim to be looking for a maniac or a terrorist who wants to kill the President, it's contempt for both the President and the country. Because those people who are protecting the President, they have to think about the quantity parameters, the ethics parameters. The Constitution, by the way, predicts not only the dignity of the President to protect but also the dignity of every human being. Well, if the subway gets blocked in Kiev, it hasn't been safe since World War II, to block when the President passes, you can imagine the attitude of the Chinese to power and to the law enforcement authorities. Therefore, the measure of security, the dignity, must be taken into account. Because otherwise it's a pity, I say again, both to the head of state and to the country. Because how do the media and international agencies say that the President twice conducted public action and twice sought out a terrorist or a murderer who treated our country in the world? So I would ask you to go out of your mind and respect for people and to understand that the President is working for the country, and the country is thinking about how it is not being prevented from doing the same thing, working daily, especially for the Chinese, who have their problems and solve them daily.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u104	Please, Anatoly Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u105	That's a question for me. As far as the police work on the issue is concerned, the police are acting strictly in accordance with the legislation in force in the country. Period. All police forces and means that are attracted and attracted are as much as necessary to protect public order. Period. All other matters do not concern the competence of the police at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u106	Thank you. Please sit down, Anatoly Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues! A year of questions to the Minister of Internal Affairs is over. Let us turn to the next question. Dear colleagues! In accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules on Friday, we have 30 minutes to issue parliamentary inquiries. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Irina of the Coastal to the President of Ukraine on the use of measures to respond to the raid on the Closed Shareholder Society of the Harkovsky Immunological and Medical Enterprises Biolik (the city of Kharkiv), Sinbias Farma, and OnkoGenerix (the city of Donetsk). I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[11:12:22]] For-198 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[11:12:42]] For 229 Decision taken. Sergey of the Vice President of Ukraine on the provision of information on the working visit of the President of Ukraine to the Greek Republic from 6 to 7 June 2010. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[11:13:11]] For-84 The decision is not taken. Jurya Litvina to the President of Ukraine for the prevention of a raid on the State Committee on Television and Radio. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[11:13:40]] For-93 In the end, let's get back to the vote. Request not supported. Olga Gerasimük and Irina Heratschenko to the President of Ukraine for the prevention of traffic restrictions. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[11:14:12]] For-99 The decision is not taken. Andrija Pavlovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on failure by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to implement the Ukrainian Act "On pay" in part of setting the tariff rate of the first-class worker, which is to exceed the statutory minimum wage. Vadim Kolesnicka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of effective measures to restore the activities of the State Enterprise "Black Sea and Azoves Production and Exploitation Administration of the Seaways" from the State's functions to ensure the exploitation of sea waterways. Vasil Gritzak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine, on the verification of the reliability of the creation of the former Deputy Minister of Interior of Ukraine, one of the leaders of the Political Party "Front Change" Volodymyr Homenko, the so-called "Fortec Special Objects Complex" of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, with the aim of removing state property objects from state control. Victor Sinchenk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the removal from the state registration of the Ukrainian Industrial Association for the Production of Iron Concrete Structures by the Ukrainian State Corporation "Ukratranssaliz concrete". Vladimir Yavorowski to Prime Minister of Ukraine for confirmation or correction of information about the fact that the Ukrainian side had withdrawn its international lawyers from the Stockholm Arbitration Court trial, where the claim of Rosukrenerego to Ukraine for the return of eleven billion cubic metres of natural gas, which had caused great damage to national interests and could result in the loss of a quarter of the Ukrainian State budget. [[More than $5 billion worth]] Grigory Smituha to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the protection of the interests of the State and the removal of violations of legislation in connection with the situation surrounding the artificial bankruptcy of the State Enterprise "Nicopolski Pipeworks". Gregory Smythuch to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, the Head of the State Tax Administration of Ukraine, the Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine on the protection of the interests of the State and the cessation of the illegal activities of the management of the Sevastopol Wine Plant, which threatens the bankruptcy of the enterprise. Edouard Prutnik to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Agriculture Policy of Ukraine, the State Committee on Land Resources of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Justice, the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the need for a comprehensive review of the request of Alexander Hlebov to the entrepreneur not to allow illegal absorption and the seizure of agribusinesses in Talalayiv and the Serb region of Chernigiv by the acquisition of agricultural land, which is registered and located in the lease, and the closure during the last two years of the business activities of Partners Plus and Partners Plus Agro. Eugene Zarkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Environmental Protection of Ukraine, for the restoration of the marine ecosystem, Sasik by building a joint channel and rehabilitating surrounding areas. Igor Sharov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for information on the use of measures and actions to overcome the extremely critical situation in Kaluchi and for the purpose of using public funds to overcome it. Igor Sharov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on urgent measures to eliminate the effects of submerging areas in cities and villages of Ukraine. Mikoli Derkač to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the reconstruction of the maternity home in the city of Dniprodjernsk Dnipropetrovsk. Mr. Derkac to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to address the problem of providing quality drinking water to residents of the city of Zenodolska Apostolic Region of Dnipropetrovsk. Mikoli Tomenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on a sharp reduction in the production of Ukrainian book products in 2010. Oksana Bilozer to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, on the use of urgent measures to prevent illegal logging in the Kyiv region and other regions of Ukraine. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the creation by the State of safe living conditions for persons living in areas where underground work is carried out. Oleg Zarubinski to Prime Minister of Ukraine on measures to preserve the state of its territory within the Danube sector of the Ukrainian-Romanian border. Oleg Tishchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the conduct of official investigations into the illegal performance of official duties, the failure to meet the legal requirements of the Ukrainian National Deputy as head of the State Committee on Land Resources of Ukraine, Oleg Kulinić. Helen Bondarenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the construction of underwater gas pipelines to the villages of the Burditch region of the Žitomir region. Sergija Vlasenka to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine, Head of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine, on the circumstances of the improper performance of its duties by officials during the representation of the interests of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine at the Arbitration Institute of the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce. [[Sweden]] Sergei Gordienka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the study of the reasons for the closure and the possibility of restoring the work of the Bilicka Milk Conservation Unit of the Kobeljak Region of Poltava. Sergei Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, for the effective treatment of children with cancer. Taras Stackov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the transparency of the conduct of projects developed by youth, children’s social organizations and their associations regarding children, young people, women and the family for 2010. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the immediate development of Black Sea gas hydrates, whose volume is about 50 trillion cubic metres and can provide Ukraine with natural gas for a period of one and a half thousand years, which will ensure Ukraine's energy and political security, prevent the destruction of Prikarpatian drilling operations, such as the world's oil and gas pipelines, improve the efficiency of its activities, create and ensure conditions for continued growth and improve the competitiveness of the oil and gas sector in Ukraine. Jurya Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the prevention of a raid on the State Committee on Television and Radio Broadcasting of Ukraine. Julius Kovalova to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Attorney-General of Ukraine for the verification of the legality of land allocation under construction near the Shatylovski source of drinking water in the city of Kharkiv in connection with the dissatisfaction of the reply to the MP's appeal. Arsenija Yatsenuk to the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on providing information on the monopoly status of the EDAPS consortium on the market for the production of securities, documents of strict reporting, excise stamps and holographic protected elements. Valery Kelestin to the Minister of Environmental Protection of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the improper consideration of the parliamentary appeal by the responsible employees of the State Geological Service regarding the development of a sand career near the church - a monument to the architecture of national importance and the ancient cemetery by private company The Closed Agriculture Society of Klistivnianka. Valery Pisarenko to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv City State Administration, for signs of abuse by Volodymyr Bondarenko, a member of the political party "Reform and Order" with the authority of the Ukrainian People's Deputy to obtain the wrong benefit. Vladimir Yavorowski to the head of the Supervisory Board of the International Charity Foundation "Ukraine 3000" for the construction of the Kyiv Children's Hospital of the future under the patronage of the wife of the ex-President of Ukraine Victor Yushchenk, namely, the presence of a real land plot, the amount of funds collected by charity, the provision of information on where these funds are being spent, and whether they will be built in Ukraine at all necessary for Ukrainian children in the next decade. Eduard Prutnik to the Ministry of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine, Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, Montenegro District State Administration on the need to consider the collective appeal of residents of the village of Verba of the region of Chernigiv in order to contribute to the gasification of this populated area; Eugene Kzarykov to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, regarding employees of the Odessa District Hospital and one of the Odessa District District Hospitals, which is exposed to sale of children; Mr. Mikli Jankowski to the head of the High Council of Justice, Head of the Qualificational Commission of Judges of the Ukrainian Commercial Courts, for support of the staff of the Open Shareholders Association "Concern Stirol" of Gorlovka Donetsk Region; Oleg Tishchenka to the head of the High Council of Justice regarding the hearing of the Head of the Board of Public Shareholders of Bank National Credit regarding, according to the complainant, unlawful actions and violations of the oath of the judge of the Court of Justice of Kiev Inga Usatenko; Alexander Schepeleva to the Minister of Transport and Liaison of Ukraine for the use of the bridge repair measures in Dniprodj yinsk and the resolution of the issue of his further service; Helen Bondarenko to the Minister of Ukraine for Family, Youth and Sports, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights on improper consideration of citizens' appeal and failure to respond to applicants; Paul Silent to the Minister of Culture and Tourism of Ukraine on the financing and release of the newspaper Crimska Lumena; Sergey Gordienka to the head of the High Council of Justice on the need for a review of the individual judges of Kyiv and Moscow District Courts of Kharkiv actions that distort the title of judge and call into question their objectivity, impartiality, independence, honesty and integrity; Sergey of the Head of State for the provision of information on the work visit by the President of Ukraine to the Greek Republic from 6 to 7 June 2010; Sergey Tereshuka to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine on the pressure to apply for the post of Omachiov village head of the region of Montenegro, Vitali Kuharenko; Jury of Crook to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, on jurisdiction for Ukraine of international conventions on the safety of navigation; Jury Stac to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service on the need to investigate the fact that unknown persons are being monitored by TV broadcasters and the use of emergency facilities to violate Ukrainian constitutional rights and freedoms; Vladimir Karpuk and Vladimir Moysik to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of cases of exceeding official authority, the gross violation of the Constitution of Ukraine by members of the police and the Berkut special forces who applied force and tear gas to civilians at the premises of the Volin County Court of Appeal on 15 June 2010; Irina Herashchenko and Olga Gerasimük to the head of the Ukrainian State Protection Authority on the violation by a co-worker of the Ukrainian Department of State Protection of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine; Olga Gerasimük and Irina Heraszczenko to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine to prevent traffic restrictions; Andrija Pavlovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on illegal land allocations and the non-permission of green plantations along the Clearinghouse-Brovar line between Czernigowska and Darnica stations in the Dniprovsk district of Kiev; Arsenija Yatsenuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Kyiv City State Administration, to stop the illegal destruction of the Mališka Park in the Dniprov region of Kiev; Vladimir Pilpenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the unlawful seizure by the Ukrainian National Deputy, a member of the political party "Reforms and Orders" Sergey Sobolje Society with limited responsibility "The Eupatoria wine plant" and the Open Association of Agricultural Shareholders' enterprise "The Black Sea Pearl"; Vladimir Pilpenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the non-response of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine to information on illegal acts, a member of the political party “Reforms and Orders” of Ostap Semerak, which is responsible for the raiding of the property of Kiev residents; Eugene Chago to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification and accountability of abusers, the exceedance of official powers and the sale of land in the village of Biogradka Kyiv region; Igora Savchenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the examination of the facts of the improper performance of the duties of the Brovarsky Interstate Prosecutor of the Kyiv Region, Sergey Szczerbin; Irina Bréžéni to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of measures to respond to the raid on the Closed Shareholders Association of Harkovsky Immunobiological and Medical Devices Biolik, Sinbias Farma and OnkoGenerix. [[City of Kharkiv]] [[Donetsk City]] Helen Schustik to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the application of measures to halt the illegal actions of the Society's officials with limited responsibility, Europolis Property Holding. Saint-Oliynik to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the illegal capture of the Luhansk machine factory called Balhomenka. Jury Karmazin to the Attorney-General of Ukraine regarding the inappropriate response to the MP's request and the appeal of officials of the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Lviv Region and the Drobybian Interstate Prosecutor's Office for the facts of the theft of property at the Open Shareholder's Company "Drobybic Engineering Plant", the purposeless use of the local budget by the head of the Stebnik City Council in deciding on the question of the identification of the owner of the rental company "Everything for the House" and the financial and economic activities of "Stebnikvokal", the establishment of a comprehensive commission to verify the facts of unemployment, the improper performance of official duties by individual prosecutors of the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Lviv Region and Drodobic Interstate Prosecutor's Office of the Public Prosecutor's Office. Katerina Vaschuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on dissatisfaction with the reply to the MP's request to check the legality of the criminal offence against Sergey Sek and to comply with the procedural legislation in the conduct of the pretrial investigation by officials of the Pecher District Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in Kiev, the Prosecutor's Office of the City of Kiev and the Prosecutor's Office of the Pecher district of Kiev. Helen Schustik to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the application of measures to halt the illegal actions of the Society's officials with limited responsibility, Europolis Lodges Park Two. Volodya of Olijnik and Vasil Demchisen to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the purpose of verifying compliance with the requirements of the current Ukrainian legislation during the process of transferring state property to the State Enterprise Ukriba to the Open Shareholder Society Volinribgosp. Kseniya Llapina to the Irpinsk city head for the land allocation of residents of Irpin Larissa Extractanec. Kseniya Ljapina to the Head of Solomon’s District State Administration of Kiev regarding the provision of information on the construction of a land plot in Kiev on Uritsky Street, 37-A. Mikoli Schmidt to the head of the Donetsk District State Administration, Donetsk City Head to address the housing issue of the invalids of the Great Homeland War and the Group of George Varagian. Jurija Gnatkević to the Kiev City Head for his dissatisfaction with the reply to a parliamentary appeal about the problems of controlling the execution of language legislation in the capital’s external advertising, which is more like mockery of a deputy than an answer to a essentially parliamentary appeal. Dear colleagues! Here was a proposal to return to the consideration of the questions that had been proposed to refer to the President of Ukraine. So I'm going to put to the vote all those questions that weren't supported, each one individually. To return to the request of the National MP, I would like to ask your attention to make a conscious choice. Sergey of the Vice President of Ukraine on the provision of information on the working visit of the President of Ukraine to the Greek Republic from 6 to 7 June 2010. [[11:32:09]] For 113 Request not supported. So return is not supported. I am voting for a motion to return to the request of Yuri Litwin for the President of Ukraine (to prevent a raid on the State Committee on Television and Radio Broadcasting of Ukraine). I'd like to vote back on the motion, please. [[11:32:43]] For 303 We're back on request. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[11:33:03]] For 304 Requested. I'm voting on a motion to refer a request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:33:23]] For 312 The request is addressed to the President of Ukraine. I am voting for the proposal to return to the consideration of Olga Gerasimük and Irina Gerashchenko’s request to the President of Ukraine to prevent traffic restrictions. [[11:33:53]] For 113 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party - 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 75, Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense - 38, Communist faction, Litvina Block and non-factional - 0. In total, 96 requests were made. Dear colleagues, two factions, the Yulia Timoshenko faction and Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense require a 30-minute recess to hold consultations on the schedule for today, Friday, June 18. Maybe they'll make a statement right away or take a break? I'm gonna take a break. So let's think about it this way: we're going to take a break for up to 12 hours for 05 minutes, and then we're not going to take a break and work on it normally. That's what they're saying. They're calling for a break. A break of 12 hours is announced for 05 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u107	We're continuing our work. Two factions offered a break, it was announced, please inform us. What? To speak on behalf of two factions will be the national deputy of the Stac.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention once again to those issues that have been raised by the opposition in the last two weeks and for some reason in this room and in the Supreme Council's apparatus there are no responses. I have no choice but to try to reach your souls, your hearts, your minds from this important high court. I would like to point out that Ukraine has recently registered a sufficient number of offences involving obstacles to journalistic activity. For the Head, I can explain that they are registered by parliamentary motions to the head of the IMF, to the Head of the Security Service, to the Attorney General. Yesterday, this distinguished Hall, using coalition voices, created a temporary commission of inquiry led by Mrs. God’s Ministry to investigate the activities of the National Council on Television and Radio. I would like to point out that this commission was created with a violation of the law, because at the time of registration and voting in the Hall there were only four members from the Chamber. Moreover, the head of this commission is Mrs. Bogoslovak, who is not a member of any factions, and according to the Ukrainian Act “On the Rules of the Supreme Council” the head of the interim commission of inquiry can be appointed only by the MP factions and, including by the MPs, Mrs. Bogoslovska is a non-fractional deputy. Since the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information at its meeting has unanimously decided to establish a Temporary Investigative Commission on the Investigation of Censorship in the Media, the pressure on freedom of speech in Ukraine and the obstruction of the legitimate professional activities of journalists, we request the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to sign a letter on the withdrawal of this decision and to assign a new ruling to the strictest terms of the Regulatory Committee, in the view of the lawyers of the Committee's apparatus, irreprehensible, a new decision with the same name. The same is true of the immediate introduction of the hall. Once again, I stress that the state of freedom of speech in Ukraine now needs our careful investigation, since journalists are being beaten. Let's not let another Gongadze case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u109	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, I must immediately say that, despite all the respect I have to offer to the National Deputies and Committees, I will not be able to withdraw the draft decision. Let me study this question, because yesterday I was on an official visit to Germany, and I haven't seen the materials that were voted on yesterday. One thing I can say is that, given the fact that there should even be a representation in the commission in question that is proportional to the composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we need to find arrangements, otherwise we will not be able to make decisions on any of the commission of inquiry. If there are no factions, I think we understand everyone who can't sign this document. So I'm going to study these proposals, I'm going to consult with lawyers, I think we're going to make an acceptable decision. At the same time, I would ask and appeal to the faction of the Party of Regions and the BUT faction to conclude joint negotiations on the Committee on Freedom of Word and Information. We can't keep working so hard that there's no committee head. As far as I know, the consultations were held until they ended there. Please find a compromise on what committees or committee you can exchange to resolve this issue so that it will not be resolved by majority, by pressure, by a vote of 226. We don't need to create other conflicts in the session room. We need the positive growths we had in terms of understanding and finding compromises. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the issues that are set out in the schedule for today. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the application of distribution agreements is being announced for consideration. Project registration number is 5376. I would ask that we continue to consider these bills as a simplified procedure so that we can make the most of our decisions. The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Horoskevich Alexander Sergiyjovich, co-rapporteur, head of the Committee on Economic Policy of Plotników Aleksij Vitaliyovich. I am voting on the proposal to consider Bill 5376 as a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[12:11:13]] For 201 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u110	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The need to adopt amendments to Ukraine’s legislation regarding the application of distribution agreements is due to the following factors. First, the bill eliminates internal contradictions that exist in the law in force. This applies, in particular, to the definition of the parties to the agreement on the Ukrainian side. Thus, article 4 of the Act states that a party to the distribution agreements is the State of Ukraine, but Article 5 already states that the parties to the agreement are the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the local government authority, which is located in the territory of the Nadr district, which is transferred under the terms of the distribution agreement. Secondly, the basic Law on Distribution Agreements was adopted in 99 years. During this time, both the individual positions of the law itself and the series of laws related to the actions it causes have become obsolete. Therefore, it is also proposed to amend legislation that is parallel. Thirdly, the Ukrainian Law on Distribution Agreements, unlike other countries' legislation, was designed to regulate not only oil and gas production but also other useful fossil fuels. Today, however, this bill is most practical for marine and hydrocarbon work. The law should therefore be clarified to better regulate oil and gas mining operations on the continental shelf. In particular, there is no clear definition of the boundaries of the continental shelf and the adjacent economic zone in existing legislation. And that's why there's a field to discuss. Or, in particular, the Odessa District Council has jurisdiction over areas of nadr in the northwestern sector of the shallow shelf. The answer to that question depends on a very important practical conclusion. Whether the Odessa District Council will be a party to a specific agreement on the distribution of produce. It should be noted that in order to properly regulate the work of finding and extracting hydrocarbons on the shelf, a number of changes are needed not only in the law on distribution agreements.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u111	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u112	And other laws. Yes, according to current legislation, the maritime platform is part of the customs territory of Ukraine. And oil is the product of Ukrainian origin. At the same time, due to the absence of a corresponding customs regime, when delivered to the mainland part of Ukraine of the appropriate oil mined state, this oil should be formed as imported with import duty and value added tax. It's a clear absurdity that we're proposing to correct. The Scientific and Expert Council proposes to adopt the draft law in the first reading. And when preparing for second reading, consider a series of comments. I agree with some of these comments. I also agree with the observations made by the Ministry of Finance and Mineconomy regarding the second reading of a number of provisions of this law. Please support the bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u113	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Please sit down. Alexi Plotnikov, head of the Committee on Economic Policy Please, the committee's decision?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u114	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy at its meeting on March 30, 2010, considered a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on the Application of Contracts for Distribution. Registration number 5376 of 15.11.2009 Imported by Ukrainian national deputy Horoshevich. The project proposes to amend the Ukrainian Law on Distribution Agreements, the Customs Code, the Code of Nadra and some other legislative acts aimed at creating the right conditions for making such agreements. The bill provides for specific changes to the existing laws of Ukraine, which will allow for the elimination of the contradictions of the law, a clear definition by the State party of the agreement on the distribution of products and organs of authority, well, many of the things that the national deputy has mentioned in his speech and which colleagues have the texts distributed during the registration. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council concluded that some comments had been made to the project, but recommended that the bill should be adopted in the first reading on the basis of further development, taking into account comments and suggestions. Thus, the Economic Policy Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act amending some of the legislative acts introduced by the Ukrainian national deputy Horoshevich, to be adopted on the first reading as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u115	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a bill if you need it. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u116	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The objectives and tasks of the draft bill are to create appropriate legislative frameworks for the application of product distribution agreements, simplifying individual permit procedures in the field of drug use in the areas of production distribution agreements, removing individual gaps in legislation related to the application of customs procedures to hydrocarbons obtained in the customs territory of Ukraine located outside the State border, but within the exclusive maritime economic zone of Ukraine, as well as improving the mechanism for paying taxes, particularly in natural form, that is, parts of carbon-day raw materials, as well as eliminating disagreements and gaps in the current legislation, which create obstacles for the State to apply the treaty on distribution of products. The bill also provides for the introduction of separate amendments to the Production Distribution Agreements Act, which allow: firstly, to eliminate the contradictions of the law, clearly identify the State as a party to the distribution agreement and the authorities of the State through which the State acts as a party to such an agreement. The other one. Designate the authorized authority of the State, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to conclude an agreement on the distribution of production in the exclusive maritime economic zone and on the continental shelf of Ukraine. Third. Improve and regulate the mechanisms for paying taxes and assemblies when implementing the distribution agreement, particularly within Ukraine’s exclusive maritime economic zone. And the fourth. Strengthen guarantees against changes in the legislation for the duration of the contract, and thus create a stable and favourable regime of use for the duration of the agreement. The bill also provides for the introduction of individual, most relevant, amendments to Ukraine’s next legislative acts: the Customs Code, the Nadra Codes, and external economic activity. The faction of the Party of the Regions considered the bill. And he offers the session room to receive it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u117	Thank you. Yuri Karmazin, faction “Our Ukraine — National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u118	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Ladies and gentlemen, I have come to know this law as well as all others. And I'm surprised, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that you and I are in violation of the Rules, which is serious and substantial. Why? I realize that this is not the first time that the Rules have been violated. How can codes be amended by a reduced procedure? Vladimir Mihajlovich, Adam Ivanovich, you know that no changes to the codes can be made under the reduced procedure. And you're suggesting.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, let's be precise. The Supreme Council of Ukraine cannot consider the simplified procedure of the Codex. And let's get out of this. Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u120	Well, that's how far we'll go with things like that. Dear friends, I would like to say very briefly right now that making changes to the Customs Code that are being proposed here is completely unserious, because this is about the customs territory of Ukraine, and the definition. Here all definitions are given in the Customs Code and so simply, from a shoelace, you can't go there. The second question, I believe, is that making changes to the Foreign Economics Act, which gives priority to external economic activity, or to others that are party to the distribution agreement, is totally inappropriate, this is a change to article 37 of the Foreign Economics Act. I think it's illegal to give, also to set up other tax and congregation arrangements, because there's the Tax System Act, where it's said. And we're going to have to remove everything that applies to the taxation of the relevant activity. It can only be in tax laws and so can we.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u121	Complete, please, Yuri Anatolyevich. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u122	Thank you, thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. So I think the law is necessary, but it's not working. As Chechetov puts it: re-reading, taking into account that we need to remove all lobbying, I emphasize, lobbyist things to get this product right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u123	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. Who of the factions who did not take advantage of the right of speech insists on the performance? None. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. It's important. [[B in m in s a l in]] Just a minute. The main scientific and expert administration agrees that the bill can be adopted as a basis. Would you please take the position of the government on this issue?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u124	Good afternoon. Ministry of Economics. I want to say that the point to this bill is enough. Very, well, quite a lot. And we're paying attention to two things, so this bill is contrary to the law. Ukraine’s budget code, which provides for the payment of taxes and assemblies solely in monetary form and the Ukrainian Law on the Elimination of Discrimination in Taxation. No, I'm not going to continue the whole law. According to which currency, customs and tax laws cannot be dealt with. cannot be regulated by Ukraine’s special legislation. But the government generally proposes to support this law in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u125	Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u126	Given that the first edition of the Tax Code has already been considered and there is a separate chapter on the taxation of products in the distribution contracts, there is a proposal to remove from this draft law the second reading of the rules relating to taxation and to consider them when processing the second edition of the Tax Code. And also with regard to amendments to article 25, paragraph 7, of the project, which proposes exemption from the payment of customs fees and congregations when imported into the customs territory of Ukraine of goods, we consider that this should be considered because there are problems of abuse if written in the first edition. So our proposal is that in the second reading, we delete the norms that apply to tax standards. And the second is to work out the standards that apply to customs rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u127	Dear colleagues! I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt as a basis for a draft law amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[on the application of distribution agreements]] [[Registration number 5376]] Please vote. [[12:24:06]] For 233 Decision taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u128	The factions certainly do. Region Party - 166, Block Timoshenko - 14, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" - 7, Communists - 24, "Block of Lithuania" - 19, non-fractional - 3. I am announcing the draft Law on the Collection and Accounting of the Only Social Contribution. Is there a reduced procedure? Any suggestions for a cut? I'm voting on this proposal. Yeah, and then we won't be able to see it. I'm voting on this proposal. [[Registration number 6525]] Please vote. [[12:25:03]] For 208 Decision taken. Rapporteur of the First Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Drozdova Lydia Mikolayovna, co-rapporteur of the Committee on Social Policy and Works, Hara Vasil Georgievic. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u129	Honourable Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, the draft law on the congregation, and the calculation of the only social contribution are designed to create conditions to avoid duplication of insurance functions associated with the formation of insurance funds. In particular, it provides for a reduction in the amount of work to be done on insurance payers, collection of funds; the formation and maintenance of the U.K. Pension Fund for all social insurance funds of the information system on insured persons and taxpayers; the provision of a single reporting system; the monitoring of full and timely payment of contributions by the only body – the U.K. Pension Fund with the participation of the State Tax Administration; the reduction of checks on insurance contributions; the reduction of administrative costs of funds; the increase in the income of insurance funds; and the more efficient use of social insurance funds. The bill is proposed as of January 1, 2011. With a view to accelerating its introduction into the bill, the only social contribution formed on the basis of the existing size of insurance contributions to four types of social insurance: pension, unemployment, temporary loss of employment, and industrial accidents. The split of the only social contribution will be made by the State Treasury of Ukraine to centralised accounts in the Social Insurance Fund. The introduction of a single social contribution requires appropriate changes to the basics of Ukraine’s legislation on compulsory public social insurance and laws of specific types of public social insurance of other laws. These changes are included in the “Final Provisions” of the Bill. The bill was supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Authority and recommended its adoption as a basis. Regarding the conceptual character involved in the creation of a single social insurance fund that will not only ensure the performance of the functions of consolidation, accounting and implementation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u130	Please, go ahead.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u131	It should be noted that this is not the purpose of the bill and that consideration of it can be the next step in reforming social insurance. Other comments from the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration can be taken into account when preparing the bill for second reading. Please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u132	Thank you, sit down, please. Hara Vasil Georgievovich is head of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u133	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! This bill is aimed at strengthening the financial structure of our country's social security system, reducing the number of financial documents, reports, checks, sanctions and so on. The bill provides for the integration of the functions of the funds: the first, the establishment of the Fund's payers, the second, the establishment and implementation of a single register of social insurance for both payers and insured persons, the third, the provision of a single account, the fourth, the single control of the full and timeliness of the payment of the single social contribution and the collection of the debt, the fifth, the payment of the single payment document, the sixth, the carrying out of checks on the above matters by a single body. In addition, increased income from occupational accidents, temporary disability, and unemployment are expected to increase by increasing the number of insurers. The fact is that the Pension Fund has clearer, accurate and strict insurance accounting data, so that the number is much higher than in the above-mentioned funds. Our Committee considered the draft at its meeting on 16 June. Social partners, employers'associations and trade unions expressed their views, made sufficient proposals in principle, but agreed that they could easily be introduced into the bill for second reading. Future participants in the project, Treasury, Pension Fund, representatives of the three social insurance funds, future participants in the project, were speaking. The comments of the Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council are carefully considered. I want to say that for the first time, we have received such comments. But they may also not be removed for second reading. All comments will be taken into account and agreed upon by the Committee. The Committee decided to recommend that the Supreme Council adopt the bill as a basis. I beg your pardon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u134	Dear colleagues! Please sign up for the bill. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Michael Volintz will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u135	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill is aimed at improving the state social insurance system, improving the effectiveness of social insurance funds. Especially by making more rational use of funds aimed at maintaining their administrative apparatus. To this end, the bill provides for, from 1 January 2011, the first, the consolidation of one body, the Pension Fund of Ukraine, similar to all social insurance funds, namely: payment of payers, formation and maintenance of the state social insurance register, etc.; the second, the introduction in Ukraine of a single social contribution to the general public social insurance obligation by one payment order; the third, the recalculation of a single social contribution by the State Treasury to the centralised accounts of social insurance funds; and the fourth, the provision of social insurance funds by the State Social Insurance Register for the appointment of insurance benefits and social services, the targeted use of funds. The mechanism for calculating, calculating and paying the only social contribution is proposed to apply the same principle as that of paying insurance contributions to a general government pension insurance. The draft law provides for rights, obligations and responsibility in the area of the formation of insurance funds that are earmarked for payers of the only social contribution — the bodies of the Pension Fund of Ukraine, social insurance funds, the State Treasury of Ukraine and other bodies. The faction of the Party of the Regions has considered this legislative act very carefully and calls for the sessional room to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u136	Mikhailo Volinec, faction of the "Blanket of Yulia Timoshenko". The next one will be George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, distinguished TV setters, radio listeners! It is a shame that no one talks about what is going on here. And this is about the Pension Fund, last year it's 196 billion dollars. This is about social insurance funds plus another 20 billion dollars. I would like to point out that between 50 and 60 percent of social insurance funds are being stolen and used ineffectively and not for purpose. And so now the government of Azarov is trying to take control, monopolistic control of the three social insurance funds and use them for their own resource purposes not only by the Cabinet of Ministers, but also by the Party of the Regions. The next thing I want to say is to increase the congregation to the Pension Fund, to three social insurance funds even in the first grade, and for example, 67 classes are designed to increase the congregation substantially. And I can't understand how employers agree with that. If this were to happen in a civilised state, there would be a revolution. And today someone doesn't pay the premium and thinks they're going to pass, or some employer's summit today is going to have these costs, or the authorities, or, for example, the unions, just like the structures that are subordinated to the U.S. Trade Federation each year from a single social insurance fund, get 1 billion dollars a year to support their structures, 1 billion dollars a year. And no one knows how these funds are used. Or, for example, in 2007, from one of the Regional Party funds, it was at the expense of this fund that it commissioned its entire policy base for elections to the Supreme Council in 2007. And this question about this bill and the increase in payments, they weren't discussed on the tripartite council of social dialogue, they weren't specifically discussed with employers' organizations. As Basil Hara said, it was embarrassing that this was said on his committee. We know how the Harry Committee discusses such issues, and why the Free Trade Federation, which I represent, was not invited there. And I want to say the next thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u138	Turn around, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u139	In addition to employers, employees are paid to the Pension Fund, 2 percent, to one of the social insurance funds 0.6 percent, to another of the funds is 1 percent, and thus, along with wage deductions, the employee still pays 18.6 percent. So we have the right to demand that this issue be considered in a tripartite council of social dialogue, so that the issue is not taken in a culinary way, and not in a way, let's say. They refuse to look at Parliament and block, they do not accept the Olga Bodnar Bill, and they introduce the government with the same name. It's a violation of the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u140	Thank you. Yuri Karmazin, faction “Our Ukraine — National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u141	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Ladies and gentlemen, for those of you who have not been persuaded, I would like to say, first, the law is well-called, but in the law of a fine name, the good intentions go to what was said, where the road to hell. First, there is no reduction in the number of vetting bodies, and secondly, there is an increase in the number of fines that will be imposed on both the organization and the officials personally, which will only cost. It's just expenses. Third, the single social contribution base is expanding. And fourthly, part of the authority goes to the government, to the Cabinet of Ministers on this. And these, the list should all be just to be established in the law itself, us in the Supreme Council. And finally, I'd like us to learn from someone else's experience, not our own. And the Russian Federation looked at it as January 1st to stop this experiment. Since January 1st of this year! People are good! I turn to those who are always oriented towards the northern capital: see why during the period of this tax, the social tax, where insurance contributions for all kinds of social insurance and social security budgets were combined, has increased considerably and has become increasingly threatening to the pension deficit of the Russian Federation. Social insurance funds lacked the funds to increase insurance payments to insured persons. This approach to public social policy has been defeated, which is why the government of the Russian Federation, approving the concept of long-term socio-economic development of Russia by the age of 20, has decided to eliminate the only social tax. And now he's gone. So let's not step on the same rakes, and we'll send this law to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u142	Peter Cibenko, faction of the Company. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u143	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Organization. Dear colleagues, the faction of the Ukrainian Company will support this bill because it works. Leading the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons for two calls, working consistently for 10 years in a system of social protection for veterans, I want to say that it is necessary to make a decision. Moreover, I would like to say that the social contribution management fund is properly selected and the main fund, because it is the Ukrainian Pension Fund, which has the greatest experience in this regard. I'll tell you more. There was also an experiment at the level of the areas where the Pension Fund authorities administered the social contributions they were supposed to administer. And that experiment showed that the idea was right. And what I'm trying to say is, call on the person who's being very, very hard to blame right now. Wait for your accusations, there'll be results soon.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u144	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u145	Soon there will be the results of the audit. And we're probably going to hear a lot of other people today who have misused funds. So guard your emotions until then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, no one insists on the performance? No, it's not. Dear colleagues, what's the line? You didn't call her last name, did you? Who were you calling? Microphone Harry, National MP, turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u147	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Respectable citizens of Ukraine! I don't want to comment on the craziness of a well-known provoker, all-known Volintz. His unreasonable speech is not worthy of the ears of normal people. And there can only be one answer to his lies: bringing the material to trial for the lie that he is pouring out not only today but throughout the time he is in Parliament. There's no such thing as a crow, no provocation behind it. On this basis, I would like to report that I am filing a lie against Volinz against me, the committee, the Party of the Regions and the Federation of Trade Unions of Ukraine, and that I am submitting material to the court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u148	Honorable colleagues, replicas. Calm down. There's no replica. You're up now. [[B in m in s a l in]] Just a minute. You are now a replica, then there will be a reply, the Rules do not provide. Dear colleagues, I would ask. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm telling you again, there are no replicas on the line. Please. I'd just like to ask my colleagues to express themselves delicately or in a human way in relation to each other. Take it easy. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Law on Collection and Accounting for a single social contribution. [[Registration number 6525]] Please vote. [[12:41:19]] For 237 Decision taken. Honorable National MPs. There's a motive. Okay. Dear colleagues, if you're all demonstrating a flexible mind, write down, five minutes of motivation, and you'll speak as much as you want. Dear colleagues, please provide information on the results of the panel vote. By factions, please give. Region Party – 168, “Club of Timoshenko” – 13, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 8, Communists – 27, “Clocus of Lithuania” – 18, non-fractional – 3. Now, sign up from factions one minute at a time, please. The decision was taken on this bill. People's deputies' names on the board, please. Basil Hara, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u149	Please tell Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u150	Alexander Stoyan. Then there's Andrew Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, we have passed a very important law with you. Why? Because this law, first of all, reduces social security funds, it costs a lot. Second of all, he's accumulating the cost of a single contribution. Thirdly, and most of all, today, you know that only the temporary disability fund, it's not paying 200 million, and it's impossible to get these funds out, because it's a self-governing organization that can't force the employer to pay these costs. When this fund is managed by the Pension Fund, which has a structure that has a clear system, these costs will be filled. And the main thing is that the cost accumulation will allow them to then split them in directions. I want to remind you that all the political forces that are opposed today have also tried to make this law in their own time: the only social contribution. And a colleague who, really here with Vassil Hara, has commented, well, maybe enough already to spill the dirt on his colleague about the trades? You work with him. Instead of protecting people, you keep pouring dirt on Haru. It's not good to do that, Mr. Fellow of the Independent Trades.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u152	Andrew Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u153	Andrew Pavlovsky. Well, I'd like a colleague to keep his mouth shut when we're talking. And please pass the word to Wolin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u154	Mikhail Volintz, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u155	The point is, Vasil Grigorovich, that you were supposed to represent hired representatives at the 99th General Session of the International Labour Organization, where Ukraine, the only one of the world, was to report on the increase in debt on wages. And you didn't go there, even though the state bought you a ticket and ordered a hotel, and you ran out of budget money. And you're sitting there smiling today! I want to say the next thing. I confirm that the structures that are subordinated to you receive $1 billion annually from one of the social insurance funds. And no one knows how these funds are used. And we don't see cheap travel or quality worker recovery. So you can go to court, but I think a lot of people will be suing you. Next. You're not talking about this as the head of the joint representative body of the trade unions that this issue was to be discussed on a tripartite council with a social dialogue, you're not talking about what.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u156	Thank you. Yuri Karmazin, “Our Ukraine — National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u157	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainians! I voted against this bill and I want to say that it's not ready yet, although it's a good idea. And here we have in our hands the response of the joint representative body of the employers at the national level. What do you think they concluded? They concluded: "The law does not achieve the socio-economic effect society expects. [[signed the head of Miroshnichenko]] There are no benefits either for improving the administration of existing social security contributions or for social insurance entities.” I'm the one who used the quote. Other subjects who were to be involved in social dialogue in society, including the Ukrainian Federation of Professional Associations, at the signature of the Ukrainian, also came to a negative conclusion. So, dear friends, I think we should work hard.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, the issue “Report of the Temporary Special Commission on Reforming the Ukrainian Security Service and its Legislative Security Service” is under consideration. Taking into account the situation, honourable colleagues, that at 13 a.m. we have to move on to presentations in the “Variable”, are proposing the following rules of procedure: 5 minutes to report to the commission's head, 3 minutes to question, if there is, and then, in the course of the time remaining, by 13 a.m., discussion. Is there no objection? Thank you. Please, Alexander Matviyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u159	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear National Deputies! The Security Service Reform and its Legislative Security Commission worked over the course of the year. During this period, she studied the situation in the service, set priorities for the reform of the service, and also derived from the concepts and reform programmes approved by the Council of National Security and Defence and the implementation of the President's decrees. The main result of the Commission's work could be seen as what it considered and approved a new draft of the Security Service Act. The project is presented for first reading to the Supreme Council. At the same time, today’s consideration of this issue is delayed for a number of reasons and, above all, because of the change in the country’s political leadership. That is, there is a situation that causes the issue to be deferred. First, according to the President's instructions at the National Security and Defence Council, changes are being prepared to the concept of a reform programme, taking into account the reform of the entire security sector and the area of law enforcement. And secondly, the Security Service comes up with new proposals for a bill that contradicts that concept and program that is still pending today. So, as one well - known politician put it, today the situation is recuperating. The Commission makes appropriate requests to the President and Secretary of the National Security Council regarding the position on reform for today. Answers have not yet been answered. As the Rules provide, the term of office of the Commission is exhausted, we ask the Supreme Council to accept a report to the well-known and further work on the reform of the Service, including the drafting of the relevant bill, to entrust the National Security and Defence Committee with the task of tasking the National Security and Defence Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u160	Thank you. Any questions? You don't? Is there not? Yeah, 'cause. Yes, then sign up, please. Vladimir Bondarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u161	Vladimir Bondarenko, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", the “Reforms and Orders” party. Mr. Alexander, in my own time, I have been asking this commission questions about the activities of one of the deputy heads of the Service, not entirely, in my opinion, the rightful activity in terms of the embezzlement of premises that in Kiev belonged to the Service, as well as some of the transformations of the property of the Ukrainian Security Service Academy. He also asked whether this director, who had always been involved in the activities of the well - known policy of Arsenius Yatsenuk, had committed any crimes that undermined the authority of the Service and so forth. And how to prevent people like today’s director who never had any bearing on the Service from continuing to the Service, that is, the manager I was talking about, and some other footage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u162	Thank you, Mr. Volodymyr, for asking. I can answer by saying that in the new edition of the Pro Security Act, which is now on first reading, there is a provision for a professional award for appointment to management positions. And if we, on the basis of some consensus, with the National Security Council and the Service, reach this bill, this rule will be adopted, because we studied in the working order with the Head of the Service and there are no objections to the introduction of such a price. And this is seven years of experience at the Security Service for the deputy head of the Service.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u163	Pavlovsky Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u164	Dear reporter! An important Security Service for our nation. Well, how can we, at the legislative level, address the issue of, for example, businessmen representing the interests of commercial structures, having a conflict of interest, not leading such important services? Moreover, non-professionals, who have never been there for days, did not serve in the army at all. How can we protect ourselves from these non-professionals who go there just to protect the interests of their business clan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u165	Dear Mr. Andrey, I was just talking about professional grading, professional grading. In our draft law, which, along with my colleague from the Jurij Samylenko Party of the Regions, was put on first reading, there is not only a rule of professional censorship, but also a rule of strengthening parliamentary control, which provides that before being appointed to the Security Service, including a head that is regulated by legislation, but now both the deputy heads and the heads of the regional authorities, they are to be interviewed in a professional committee, and the profile committee will have the right to publicly express its opinion on this candidate, which will increase the responsibility of the person who appoints this person.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u166	Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u167	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". I just want to thank Alexander Matviyovich as a professional who has answered this question honestly about, really, the possibility that the Ukrainian Security Service is headed by a person from a big business who owns a huge media resource and can use, whatever we're told, we understand that this confidential information that he owns can still be used in his business. In principle, you answered that question. But it should really be a theme for deep meditation and those professionals who have been working honestly for many years in this ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u168	Thank you. There's nothing to comment on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u169	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, let us thank Alexander Matviyovich, the members of the commission who worked in carrying out our commission, and support their offer. I want to say one thing: they did everything they could. And we will continue to work with you, making appropriate changes to the bill. They no longer have the capacity to reform the BSI. We'll do it together. That is why I am voting on the adoption of a decree on the report of the Interim Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the reform of the Ukrainian Security Service and its legislative provisions. [[Registration number 6534]] Please vote. [[12:53:47]] For 319 It's an order. A draft decision on the formation of a TSC to determine the circumstances of the theft of millions of dollars of budget money is being followed by the leadership of the State Committee of Ukraine from the State Material Reserve. Registration number 6181. Vote? Okay. I'll put it to a vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, then, by the summary procedure, please vote on the matter. Yuri Anatolyovich. [[12:54:38]] For-195 Vladimir Mikolaiovich Olijnik, two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u170	Vladimir Olijnik, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! We ask you to consider and adopt the draft Supreme Council Order on the establishment of the Temporary Investigation Commission as a result of working with the Rules of Procedure, we have changed the name, not “On the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council on the investigation of the circumstances of the dissolution of the millions of amounts of budgetary resources by the management of the State Committee of the State Material Reserve”, but is called “On the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of the use of budgetary resources by the Heads of the State Committee on the State-Matrimonial Reserve”. The objective of this commission is to determine the conditions for the use of budgetary resources by the Heads of the State Committee from the State-Material Reserve, to establish responsibility for the requirements of the Act for the implementation of the Economic Reserve and to justify the conclusion of contracts for the acquisition and implementation of commodity values. Of course, you know very well from the media that the abuse is very large, it's practically now in the Security Service, which shows up to 5 to 6 billion dollars in cost theft. There are also eight times fewer real stocks of material resources than those declared by the relevant documents. In addition, the acquisition and implementation of resources from the material and technical reserve is certainly very large in terms of the misuse and dissipation of funds. Yes, while fuel was being used, for example, 14,000 tons were spent on one bracelet 30 copies per liter. And at the same time.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u171	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u172	The proposal is to create such a commission in order to really reach the relevant conclusions of the Supreme Council and to inform you about the situation in the State Reserve.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u173	Have a seat, please. We have a focal point for Makeyenko Vladimir Volodymyrovich, head of the Committee on Rules, MP ethics and the activities of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u174	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine, the committee at its meeting on 14 April this year considered the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the use of budgetary resources by the leadership of the State Committee of the State Material Reserve. Given that the draft decree was registered in accordance with the requirements of articles 85, 87 and 90-92 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it should support the specified draft decision, taking into account the Committee's proposals. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u175	Thank you. Shall we vote? The only thing I'm paying attention to is that there's no problem signing this decision as a decision, not all the factions have submitted their proposals to the commission, that's the first. Do you have a new warehouse, Vladimir Mikhailovich? And secondly, there's not everything right there, give me, maybe you have a fresher one. That's exactly what I have. Another point is that there's a little bit of quota going on. That's why I'm voting with these remarks. One minute to Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u176	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies, the decision of the Regulatory Committee states this is not Carmazin, it is stated in the committee's decision that I note that the initiators of the project are invited to choose the deputy head of the Committee of People's Deputies, Ribakov, who is not part of any MP's faction. We note that the Law on the Status of People's Deputies and the Rules do not contain provisions which would provide for a quota for the participation of non-fractional national deputies in temporary commissions requiring legislative regulation. So, honourable national MPs, I'm in favour of having a checkup and as soon as possible, and to call things their names. It's not the use of millions of dollars, it's the divisiveness of the budget as it is. But I definitely don't want us to have double standards. Because the commission on Mezigorje had been here for several months and had not been operational. And those committees that need to be registered and launched in one day. This committee's on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u177	Yuri Anatolyovich, be just, not in one day! In exchange, on March 30. Do not live yesterday! Don't live yesterday, you have to look ahead! Chechtev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u178	Dear Yuri Anatolievich, I have deep respect for you, but you will not be able to break the constructive work of Parliament. You're watching us work constructively. Last year, we created hundreds of commissions, and none of them were brought to their senses. Now, look, two commissions, but what! God’s Word will be understood in radio frequencies, and it will understand and name who took it and why! Now we're going to find out where the material reserve is, because there's no hanging there, and the nails are rusty, and so on. Two commissions, but seriously, where we'll put it in order. This is not the case, but it is important to deal with these issues in a qualitative way. Therefore, I propose to put to the vote and also to work constructively further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u179	I am voting on the decision to create a TSC to determine the circumstances in which the millions of dollars of the budget will be distributed to the heads of the State Committee. 6181. [[13:01:59]] For 240 Decision taken. Well, I'll give it to you. But there is no such “out of vote”. Bondarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u180	Vladimir Bondarenko. Why did I ask for your word? See what the name of the commission sounds like. It now concludes that millions of people have been looted. Well, how can you do that?Oh, my God! Here we have a group of young lawyers who look more like a 20 - year - old raider. Today, they have asked a few questions where they are immediately giving their colleagues characteristics. Let's ask the secretariat somehow to dissipate such documents and ask the authors not to immediately identify themselves. A commission will work, they will find billions, perhaps billions, but they can no longer conclude in the title as a judicial body, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u181	That's right. I'm here to support you. And unlike Karmazin, who spoke the opposite. Oh, no? Then we sign up for the “Victane”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u182	We'll sign up for "Razne", you won't be able to reach Yuri Anatoliyovich. There's a lot to write down. Yes, please, the hour of the 'Virgin'. Pottychuk, get ready for Carmazin. Oh, please, Shevchuk Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u183	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Traditionally, at the beginning of the summer, there is a professional holiday in the country, a health - care worker’s day. At this very time, the lowest level of disease. There are no outbreaks of epidemics, and doctors themselves can plan vacations. This year’s professional medical festival coincided with the end of 100 days of Yanuko’s government. , Azariah. So it is worth noting, and how did the active body in the early days in the field of health pay special attention? You can't say that there's nothing, because there are clear specific features. I'll stop at them. First, since April 1, 2010, changes have been made to the single tariff grid. And for the first time in the history of Ukrainian health care, since this was not the case before, a maximum level of compensation for medical workers has been created. The average staff salary is virtually the same as the salary of the technical and younger medical staff, and the salary of the doctor of the 10 tariff grade differs from that of the unskilled workers, such as guards or plumbers, for example, by only 14 percent or 148 dollars. The first one is not even required for secondary education, and the doctor is trained for six years at the Institute, three more years at boarding school. Thus, for 9 years of training to gain the right to treat sick people, the government of Azarov has made a difference in the office salary of 148 dollars. This is the real price of Ukraine’s higher medical education. Despite the basics of Ukrainian health - care legislation, the average monthly medical wage is 59 percent lower than the average industry, although Ukraine’s law has to be the same. And in the central health executive, MOH pays the chief specialist, for example on pediatrics, only 2,000 dollars, which is much less than the salary of a cleaning woman in any financial and banking institution. Not by chance is the practice of corruption in the IHO apparatus. You know, Ukraine's Chief Audit Authority, as a result of the verification, found at least 7 wrong directions or shadow schemes in conducting tender procedures in the MOH. President Yanukovic was asked to make a proper assessment by the Professional Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. What is the reaction? The Prime Minister of Ukraine has given the mandate to withdraw the conclusion of the HeadCRA on illegal actions in the MoH. This is how the fight against medical corruption is now fought. Yet, respected medical personnel, we are convinced that the real assessment of your tireless work is given, not by the authorities, but by fellow citizens. Parliamentary opposition will correct the unacceptable situation that has arisen. The opposition warmly welcomes medical groups, health professionals, volunteers, and aid workers with the celebration of a health worker, and will reap the success, prosperity, and the weather of the spirit for every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u184	Thank you. Please, Yuri Carmazin, get ready for Cassinuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u185	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Honorable National Deputies, reverend Ukrainian people! I want to ask you three questions. The first issue that requires an urgent response to the leadership of the Supreme Council, the leadership of the government, the President of the State and the leadership of the law enforcement agencies is the response to illegal logging in Kharkiv and the fact that the people who objected were sentenced to various terms of deprivation of liberty in the form of arrest, which is brutal and illegal. I'd like to pay attention to that, draw the attention of society. The other one. I point out that the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights, Nina Ivanovna Karpachov, in her letter to the Attorney General of Ukraine, gave an assessment of what was going on in Crimea about Captain First Class of the Cotillion, the head of the port of Eupatoria, who was handcuffed to bed with an ischemic stroke. She qualified it to be torture, and more than that, she cited so many cases of things happening there. I'd like to take action on this leadership, and we've heard answers from the Attorney General's Office. Finally, I would like to read to you a letter from Dnipropetrovské district, from the city of Sinělníková, a Ukrainian citizen who writes: “I am a pensioner who boils down hundreds of miles of gas pipelines, which connects thousands of meters of houses to the heat, receiving a pension, a supplement of 2.70. Here I want to,” I quote, “to read this letter from the Supreme Council’s rostrum, to which the coalition has come. I'm sending three bracelets. Give Lithuania one bracelet, let it buy the parents glasses, or he tells them everywhere that they have one on each other. How does he feel about me if he doesn't think about his parents?Oh, my God! Ephraim – one bracelet and one bracelet – Simonenko – for workers' rights. And I'll send this supplement to them every month. Maybe they'll eat sometime. Babic Viktor Vasilevich.” I have met this requirement, these people, and these three bracelets I will now place to the chairman who sent this man, our pensioner Babic Viktor Vasilovich. And I want to show what cynicism the authorities made by promising to raise pensions, and raising taxes, raising prices, raising everything else, and lowering the standard of living. So, Sir Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, please pass the bracelet on to your party manager.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u186	Thank you. Thank you, that's not enough. The fences, please. After him, Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u187	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! I want to draw the attention of all those present to the other problems that arise in the relationship of the Kyiv city authorities with the inhabitants. With the people of Kiev. I want to talk about the inadequate treatment of the authorities with regard to security of life in Kiev, the preservation of the property of the citizens, and the countryside of Kiev. Yes, I was contacted by the inhabitants of the Golossian district of Kiev, who are complaining, particularly that this is General Rodimtsev Street near the Maxim Rilsky Voivodship Park, and they complain that the erosion of the slopes on which the houses are located has increased significantly. Just a year ago, on May 20, 2009, I sent a letter to the Chernivitek MP saying No.05163 that the liquefied waters had significantly destroyed the slopes on which the 17th and 15th buildings were located on the street of General Rodimtsev. Disruption of the slope threatens the integrity of these buildings and threatens the safety of children on the street near that slope. The size of the failure is already such that even large trees, hundreds of years old, fall into it. To this condition the slopes were caused by the destruction of old drainage systems and the terrible state of the water supply infrastructure on this street. Regrettably, there is no constructive response from the Kyiv authorities In its reply — again more than a year ago — under the signature of the first, then first deputy, Dovebchenka, the Kiev authorities agreed that these works should be done immediately, but for some reason they were carried away for 2010. The year 2010 is coming, and it's been six months now, but no response from the Kyiv city authorities to the concerns of the inhabitants, to make it safe for citizens to live on 15 and 17A on the street of General Rodimtsev, the citizens who enjoy leisure in the Bolosian Cultural Park, is there. So today the situation is only getting worse, the yoke is getting deeper, it's expanding, and other destructive processes are happening. As I speak from this rostrum, I want to call on the Kiev authorities to carry out their duties to the citizens, to carry out their duties to those who, unfortunately, voted for it in their own time, so that the people of Kiev feel not only the existence of authority but the possibility of a normal, safe, comfortable life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u188	Please, Ivan Popescu. Get ready for the Queen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u189	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Mr. Pantine, the Executive Committee of the Ternaval Rural Council of the Hertziev region of the Cherniew region, and personally the Ternavian village head, asked me to help resolve the issue of the opening of the “Deavocs” CAT and to grant it international status. Since the closure of the “Deaths” CAT, residents of the border and other villages of the Hertzev region have been making massive calls to the appropriate village council. Historically, almost every family of Hertzievsky, and not only of Hertzevsky, but also of all other border areas of the Chernivecki region, have relatives, friends, or acquaintances in neighboring Romania. In order for them to visit each other, they must cross the border through the nearest sectional CAT, where almost always huge queues, and have to make extra 80-100, and sometimes even more, kilometers. Because there are tens of thousands of vehicles passing through the Chernobyl area each year, causing it to be conveniently located as a border region. Therefore, solving this problem will help increase traffic flows through CAT Jakovci – Rakovec, including a large volume of international transport, thereby reducing the pressure on other checkpoints, reducing the number of queues and time spent in customs control, and increasing the volume of mutual relations at the international level, and contributing to a significant increase in investment attractiveness and stimulating the economic activity of cross-border regions. That's why I'm calling on the State and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine to activate the negotiating process with the relevant structures in Romania, with the aim of speeding up the opening of the temporary closed CAT and granting it international status. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u190	Please, Eugene the Kings, a faction of Communists, prepare for Jaroschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u191	Respectable popular deputies respected by the electorate have registered 16 sites of national importance in the Odessa region, including: Petrovsky in Kominternovsky district, Sovran Forest in Sovranský, Daliski in Ananievsky region. All of them are now funded by the State budget and are, in principle, in a satisfactory state. However, there are also hot environmental points in the area. I want to look at one of them is Lake Sassyak. Three centuries ago, officials conducted an experiment: Sassyak, who was historically a liman or an Odessa-sized Black Sea Park, in view of the lack of fresh water in the region, suggested that a dam be rebuilt to address the issue of fresh water. And, in principle, this water was directed to irrigation fields, to water use in the local region. In this case, however, nature took over, the lake became acidified, and its closed state without running water turned, practically, into a hospital. As early as 99th, the Tatar Paradise had decided to dismantle the dam. More than ten environmental assessments have confirmed the correctness of such a decision. In 2009, at the initiative of the first Vice-President of the Odessa Area, Nikola Tendjuk was able to allocate 295,000 bracelets from the budget for the development of TEO in relation to the restoration of Lake Sassyk ecosystem. The budget for this year has produced a budget request of 1.4 million grevens, which will allow for a second phase of the establishment of a specific technical project. However, without the assistance of the State budget and the personal intervention of the President and the Prime Minister, it would be impossible to resolve the matter. 40 million bracelets are needed to save Bessarabia’s pearls. However, it is reported that instead of real assistance, some Kabmin officials are trying to “instill” issues, to establish the fourteenth commission on the feasibility of eliminating the dam throughout the existence of this issue. By 2008, more than half a thousand locals had already come out with shovels on a dam and had dug a symbolic flow of 500 metres and one metre wide. I propose not to experience the nerves of Odessus, not to test our citizens and yet to deal with this problem with great understanding, because the area is on the verge of environmental disaster. Therefore, on behalf of the faction of the Company of Ukraine, I ask Prime Minister Nikolai Azarov to take this matter under personal control. And I would like to consider the statement to be a parliamentary request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u192	Please, Jaroschuk, get ready for Teeth.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u193	Dear Chief, distinguished national MPs! I am expressing my own respect and addressing the egregious facts of my abuse of office as one of the senior officials of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. At a time when the Ukrainian President’s training to combat such a criminal phenomenon as raiding has been announced in the country, individual officials continue to abuse their official duties for their own gain. It is the use of judicial and law enforcement authorities for the purpose of seizing state and private property illegally. I became aware of the involvement of Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine in the forceful issues of the head of the inter-ministerial commission on the issue of countering the illegal takeover and capture of Sovkovic's enterprises, Vladimir Leonidovich, in operations that do not match the high status of the government. The Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine's forceful task is to ensure the strengthening of the rule of law, to facilitate the cessation of illegal activities, to facilitate the coordination of law enforcement activities, and to counter the search. Sadly, the opposite is evident in real matters. We received information about the repeated involvement of Sovkovic in the work of judicial and law enforcement agencies by means of threats and coercion with a view to the acquisition of state property. Head of the interdepartmental commission on countering illegal takeover and capture of businesses. He uses this position in exactly the opposite of his assignment. It fosters raiding, distorts the power to capture businesses, directs raiders to capture businesses, actively applies telephone rights to work with judges and prosecutors to make decisions, and acts for the benefit of criminal groups. One of the rings that was made for the promotion of Sovkovic and the heads of the State of Ukraine, Mr. Kulinić, is the capture of state land of 220 hectares of Muromec Island, located in the city of Kiev. In accordance with instructions from Sovkovic and Kulinič, Brovarska District State Administration granted permits in February 2010 for the development of projects to land for the removal of land for the maintenance of a private farm to 110 citizens. As early as March 2010, she transferred the land to the eligible individuals for private property. In the end, the state’s land was under the control of high - ranking people, who could easily be traced between natural and legal persons. Notwithstanding the court ban of the Kyiv District Administrative Court on the removal of the above-mentioned land to issue orders, documents certifying ownership of the land have been made. Such facts confirm the high state status of the buyers of this crime, who are confident of their impunity. Especially presumptuous are such actions in view of the situation of articles 4, 89 of the Ukrainian Water Code, which prohibit private farming in the islands. Also part of article 59 of the Ukraine Code of Land provides that land of water can be passed on to citizens and legal persons exclusively on lease terms. Ukraine’s legislative acts do not provide for transfer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u194	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u195	In addition, Muromac Island is located in Kiev, where the authority of the Brovarsky District State Administration is in no way extended. Information on the membership of Muromac Island in Kiev is provided by the State Committee of Ukraine from land resources and the state-owned enterprise “Centre of State cadastre”. The above-mentioned criminal conspiracy involved officials of the Brovarsky District State Administration, the administration of the State Commission of Ukraine in the Brovarsky region, the Brewery Department of the State Land cadastre, the State Committee of Ukraine on Land Resources, the DP Centre of the State Land cadastre. The above facts cast a shadow on the state institutions of Ukraine, undermine the authority and trust of the higher authorities of the state, are strong testimony to the criminalization of individual members of the government, create mistrust in the activities of the newly created Cabinet of Ministers, continue to affirm the conviction of impunity and permissibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u196	Thank you. Please, Valentin Zubov, prepare for Gordienko. You say the same thing over and over again, you could say it in three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u197	Dear Presidium! Dear colleagues! Respectable voters! It has been just over a month since our country celebrated a great holiday — the 65th anniversary of the victory of the Soviet people in the Great Homeland War. Indeed, this year it was a worthy holiday, an active participation in the preparation and celebration of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, public and public organizations, and simply many citizens of Ukraine. It was a celebration, I stress, worthy. On 27 May, however, the newspaper Komsomolska Pravda published an article, “The Veteran killed himself on the Day of Victory, by insult”. The article discusses how the victory day was celebrated in the town of Kerchi, a worthy one, too, with a swing. However, near one five-storey house there was a 96-year-old Fedor Ignatenko, a scout who had been through the war from the first to the last day. There were dozens of medals and medals on his costume, and when the people came out, his neighbors offered to bring him to the city centre to participate in the celebration, he said, “You don’t have to, they will definitely come after me, they promised me.” And so he sat all day until the very evening, and in the evening of bitter insults, from such wild neglect, on this holiday of his, he committed suicide, he hanged himself. I mean, that's a very significant fact. This is not only a disgrace to the mayor of Assadchim, his servants, but a disgrace to all of us. And it is terrible that this event has not become an object of extensive serious public conversation. The worst part is that after that, instead of finding out who should be involved, the journalists who raised the problem, the neighbours who reported the fact, began to pursue it in full order. I therefore want my statement today, Adam Ivanovich, to be seen as a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine, Viktor Yanukovic, to assess the actions of the Mayor of Kerchi Assadzemu and the Attorney-General's Office, who has every reason to bring criminal proceedings against the public officials and officials who admitted such things to the article prior to suicide.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u198	Sergey Gordijenko, please. Behind him is Michael Volintz.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u199	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. The honourable chairman, honourable colleagues and residents of the Ukrainian village, as the national deputy of Ukraine, while working in the regions of Ukraine, is often asked by the villagers to resolve the issue of obtaining a state-owned long-term credit to improve housing conditions under the "own house" programme. Unfortunately, however, the financing of the programme in question in the current year has not yet begun, as the Ministry of Agrarian Politics has now submitted to the government a draft decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine amending the Cabinet Order of Ukraine since October 5, 1998 at number 1597. Complemented by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, dated 29.05 B.C.E. In 2010, without the approval of the above-mentioned act, the financing of the credit card will not start. The draft decree is in agreement with Minfin, Mineconomy and State Treasury, except for the Ministry of Regional Development and Construction. The position of the Ministry is explained by the fact that this ministry initiated the issue of the consolidation of individual housing funds in the country, the State Fund for Youth Buildings, and the State. However, according to experts, the position of Minrejonbud cannot be an obstacle to the funding of the programme “State Credit Credit for Individual Rural Inventories”. Moreover, in the current year, due to the limited resources of the State Budget, funding under the Own House programme is available only at the expense of the Special Fund of the State Budget of 40 million, of which more than 15 million, of these 40 million, are already in the accounts of the State Treasury District Offices. Taking into account the above and with a view to eliminating social tensions among the rural population, I appeal to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to give appropriate instructions and to facilitate the speedy approval of the draft Minagropolitics developed by the Ordinance on Change to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine since October 5, 1998, at number 1597, and to ensure that funding is provided for the Government's private debt lending programme. Data, I ask you to consider my request to the Prime Minister. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u200	Please, Mikhaylo Wolintz, get ready, Samylenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u201	Dear TV setters, distinguished radio listeners, revered Adam Ivanovich! Today, we have adopted a bill on the collection and accounting of the only social contribution in the first reading, and I would like to stress that at the 67th grade, the contribution is expected to increase the contribution to the wage fund to 49.7 percent. This is for coal miners, who today cannot pay their wages on time, and Timoshenko's government last year has given coal a tremendous preference for coal miners to get their wages and they've been paid for the first time in the history of the country. And so that hospitals and regressions can be paid. But I have a very big problem, whether or not the miners will actually be able to get both wages and regresses and hospitals in this approach of government. And I am surprised that this violates the Ukrainian Social Development Act in a part where compulsory health insurance is not provided. That people don't have access to medicine or anything. Instead, the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions, its structure -- the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions -- receive 1 billion dollars a year for the Ukrprofessor. And we absolutely, citizens of Ukraine, don't know how these costs are used. I want to say the next thing. That there are extremely serious abuses. And I'm going to insist that these issues eventually be considered. Instead, what happened and is now holding the 99th session of the International Labour Organization, where, on June 8, the issue of reporting Ukraine on debt on wages was discussed. Ukraine is the only country in the world to report on this issue. Since the beginning of the year, wage debt has risen by 13.2. The head of the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions, Vasil Hara, was delegated by our State from hired workers to report on Tuesday from the General Session of the International Labour Organization on this and other issues. But Basil Hara didn't go there. And what I'm saying is that the state bought him a 550-dollar ticket, a hotel, a 315-dollar hotel, and a billion-dollar ticket. One thousand 129 dollars. And if you take tickets and a hotel, the state suffered 4 thousand dollars. But the worst thing is that she didn't go there and introduce people to the job. And I didn't have a decent answer, and what really is the situation with the payout, and when the payout in our Ukraine is eliminated as such a negative phenomenon. Instead, Basil Hara is the author of a bill on the Ukrainian Labour Code, which envisions a substantial increase in working hours and working hours for hired workers. 28 articles of the project include the use of technical tools to monitor workers in workplaces, that is, listening devices, these are video cameras that will be used as.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u202	Thank you. Yuri Pavlovich Samylenko, Stishenko behind him.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u203	Dear comrades, I represent the interests of 39 constituencies of the Dnepropetrov region, which includes the city of Sinielnikovo, Sinelnikovsky, Interevsky, Pokrovský and Vasilkovsk oblasts. There is no need to speak of the enormous weight of Dneproperty in Ukraine's economy. It is sufficient to note that the first industrial region of Ukraine, by volume of industrial products, by volume of investment in capital and by foreign direct investment. The region's economy has recovered markedly this year. The continued growth of all economic indicators was certainly facilitated by the State budget of Ukraine adopted on 27 April and the budget of the Dnipropetrov region was adopted on 14 May. The social dimension of this budget is reflected in the increase in funding compared to the previous year: 24 per cent higher in health care, 21 per cent higher education, social welfare, and 26 per cent more social protection. Of course, all these positive changes in the budget area are fully related to the budgets and regions of the 39 constituencies. I ask myself: “Are all the problems of the region taken into account in the adopted budget in terms of their financing?” Detailed funding from regional and local budgets could be given to issues of concern in the region, such as the provision of 830 bracelets to complete the reconstruction of the stadium in Vasilkovka, the construction of a 68-quarter house and the completion of the construction of a cultural house in the Interev region and others. Today, however, it is appropriate to focus on outstanding issues requiring immediate funding, both in the current and in 2011. The problem remains the lack of funding for projects requiring high investment. Not many of them. This is a project and capital construction of clean-up facilities, a sewage collector in Cover, the cost of 18.6 million rubles; water networks in Prosevna - 3.6 million grivens; it takes about 2 million grivens to complete the water supply of two villages in the Interev region – Interevska Slavyanka; it takes 3.7 million grivens to complete the gasification of the village of Novopavlovka in the Interev region. We need to build a 30-bedroom house in Vasilkovka and so on and so forth. As you can see, all the issues in the field of both the people's deputies and the Government and the leadership of the Dnepropetrov region. They will certainly be resolved, but gradually. As I said at the meetings with you, the voters, the people of the region that I trust, need the hard work of all of us today, the further recovery of production, and the main one is stability in our Power and basic order. And today we see that significant steps have already been taken in this direction. For my part, I promise that, together with the leadership of the area, we will make every effort to ensure that the identified other problems of the region are addressed as much as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u204	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u205	To this end, I have sent the necessary documents to the Budget Committee, which is headed by our countryman Nikolay Ivanovich Derkac, and to the Cabinet of Ministers, Prime Minister Nikolay Janović Azarov, to take our problems into account in adjusting the country's budget in 2010 and to take them into account in the preparation of the 2011 budget resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u206	Stishenko Alexander, get Taran ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u207	Dear countrymen, residents of the Swatov district of Lugansk! The noble Lydia Kuzmovna Lukashenko of the village of Homovka in the Swatov region, your fellow citizens. Of course, it is painful to read such appeals that are of a purely local nature and are a powerful testimony that the authorities have not been there and are not there today. It is just a reference to a rapidly formed presidential power vertical, to which such powers were carried along, anointing the road, the head of the Swatian District State Administration, Vladimir Mormul, a supporter of artificial waterfronts in the area, swimming pools, art paintings, and buildings. Regrettably, he recommended himself and the head of the Swatov district council, Yuri Gabrielenko, who has been gassing for 100 years. Are you gentlemen still thinking of building a circuit road? Well, whatever it takes is the Goncharov village head Natalia Bilogurov, who probably doesn't care if there's a green grove in the village, or if there's Swatian crocodiles in the village. For the last time in all seasons, it is popular to visit him for the purpose of recreation. The point of the matter. Lidija Kuzmovna Lukashenko was elected three times as deputy to the Honcharov village council of the Swatov district. Together with the villagers, there are only 34 signatures, fighting for a long time for the conservation of more than 20 hectares of green plants in the village of Fomívka, which is administratively part of the Hončarov Rural Council. Eyewitnesses say that wetlands are destroyed in several stages. The first stage was marked by social signs and began with the construction of the head of the Swat’s regime of Mormule’s own estate in Svatov. During this time, Swattian logging was commissioned by the employer to handle the harvesting of the best trees. The second stage is the ecological one that began with the discovery of local forest pests that destroy the appetite of Swatian authorities for planting. I emphasize that Swatian district managers -- regional forestry, district environmental inspection -- are demonstrating exclusively silence for the pleadings of the inhabitants of Homovka to save this miraculous green zone. Or will the Attorney General help them to take a more conscientious view of their duties? Please consider my request to the Attorney General's Office. Enough with the promises and the hesitation. And these are photographs of where green plants are moving. On the left.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u208	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u209	On the left is the property of the head of the Swatian Reichsgericht, which is built at a record rate. That's it. That's how you'd take care of the Swamps! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u210	Victor Taran. Behind him is Arjevitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u211	Today, a bill on peaceful meetings has become widely publicized in society. And as the leader of my party, the leader of the Yulia Timoshenko Block, I am authorized to state that the Yulia Timoshenko Block in this room will never vote in favour of any norm of this or any other law that would limit the sacred right of people, the fundamental right of man, to assemble peacefully, without arms and to declare its position. People have the right to meet wherever they want, whenever they want, and say what they want. That's the first one. The other one. Is such a law necessary at all? We have to. It is necessary, because today the courts refer to the decree of the Supreme Council Presidency of the Soviet Union -- and claim that anyone who wants to hold a rally or a demonstration should apply in another 10 days. They'd still be resuscitating the colossal law. You need a law. Because Mogilov, who today pretended to be such, you know, a political stranger, suggests that protestors gather in a separate location. I don't know, maybe he meant Lukyan prison or Berkowitz. It is necessary because the opposition in society will grow because today, like smoke, all the promises of Yanukovic are dissolved. And today there is even such a saying among the people, in the spirit of Papanova: “And that you may live on one elevated pension! ” And that's why, in order to consolidate the legislative principles in the country, the government of Yulia Timoshenko has passed a bill on peaceful meetings, and this bill has a reporting and not a permit. This is in line with all the principles of the OSCE. And I want to say to the honor of my Human Rights Committee: the committee has been working on this bill. And here's the conclusion for the amended bill, the conclusion of the completely unengaged Helsinki Group, is: "The bill is sufficiently liberal and fits all spheres, international principles for human rights," -- the end of the quote. This is the conclusion of the Helsinki Group, and it is objective enough. And the second. But in society, whether because of lack of information or because people no longer want to wait or think that something good is coming out of power, voices began to echo against this law. And then, according to the proposals of the Chief of the Supreme Council, our committee met with representatives of law enforcement organizations. We'll hold committee hearings and the bill will be even better. But now the Party of Regions against this law and Chechetov has already declared that they are against it, and so the bill is trying to stop by the hands of the Democrats themselves, hiring different bought Cossacks, who are essentially provokers and who are definitely doing Mogilov's job. And so when the law is passed, it will be tried here to eliminate all democratic principles. And so we must defend this law so that it does not become a repressive instrument in the hands of the authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u212	Stanislav Arzvitin, prepare Kseniya Lupini.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u213	Mr. Stanislaw Arzewityn, head of the Association of Ukrainian Banks. Today, the Association of Ukrainian Banks, the first in an independent Ukraine civil organization of domestic banks and banking associations, is celebrated by the Association of Ukrainian Banks, a representative of the Ukrainian banking system in the financial market of the state. Many greetings were received at our association’s address. This is how I appreciate the 20th anniversary of the Association's activities as the first leaders of our country. Ukraine’s president, Viktor Janukovic, stresses: “Your organization has become one. stood near the sources of Ukraine’s market economy, proved itself to be an important factor in the stable development of our country’s financial and credit system, playing an important role today in the social life of our state.” In his greeting, the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladimir Litwin, points out: “After making major and systemic changes, your organization played a major role in the development of the country’s banking system, making a major contribution to the financial and economic development of the independent Ukrainian State. Significantly, the Association, in addressing the complex problems of professional consolidation, the protection of the systemic interests of the banking system, has focused its business efforts on working out proposals to improve legislation and the legal and regulatory framework in the banking and financial sphere." Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Sergey Tihypco, on behalf of the government, points out: “During its twenty - year activities, the Association has become one of the most influential and effective professional organizations in Ukraine. Since the first years of independence, the Association side-by-side with the National Bank and the government has created conditions for the country's economy to work in a stable manner under new conditions. Your direct involvement has resulted in the formation of a modern legislative and regulatory framework for regulating the banking system. The head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Vladimir Stelma, notes: Having united 130 banks, the Association has been promoting confidence in the banking system for the past 20 years. Multi-year active and constructive cooperation of the Association with the National Bank of Ukraine, participation in working groups to make proposals to normative actions, instructions is an important and effective direction for your work. It is particularly important to note the activity of the association during the financial and economic crisis in the country. Many proposals have become an integral part of the State’s anti - crisis response. This is a very high assessment of the activities of the Association by the State, which places even greater responsibility on the Association of Ukrainian Banks after strengthening the banking system in restoring the extent of lending to the Ukrainian economy, restoring confidence in banks. The governing bodies of the association and the directorate sincerely thank the leaders of the state for such an assessment. This activity is based on the active professional work of the Association’s Directorate in charge of the many - year - old President Alexander Sugonjako. With the celebration of you, the distinguished activists of the Association of Ukrainian Banks.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u214	Catherine. Xenia Lapina, I'm sorry. Get ready for Mutza.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u215	Xenia Lapina, group “For Ukraine!” In my speech, I regret that I have to return to small businesses in Ukraine. I would like to point out that small businesses around the world are considered not the main contributor of the State budget but the one that solves the most important social problems in the state. Small businesses are viewed as self - generating, self - energy, self - costing, and job creation. And maybe it creates one or two other places for other Ukrainians. Worldwide, this approach is considered to be very important because it unloads the state, its social funds obligations, unloads the budget, and, more than that, exposes the private initiative, exposes the initiative of everyone. Each person can provide for himself, take his own destiny into his own hands, and this is very important. What happens to us when we were adopted yesterday in the first reading of the draft Ukrainian Tax Code? It seems that the Ukrainian authorities have decided with some joy that it is for small entrepreneurs to lay the foundation for the fulfillment of the Ukrainian State budget. I want to tell you that it's impossible, theoretically speaking, absolutely not realistic, from a practical point of view, absolutely hopeless. This can only lead to the destruction of a small enterprise today and to the terrible tintification of a country that is enough. And I don't think that's the way the country develops, to tone it down. Why does this happen? You know, the Tax Code is a very complicated document. You were in such a hurry to accept it, and you probably didn't get all the standards in it. And in a sense, so to speak, the study of this document is coming up with all sorts of new and new innovations that are just frightening. Yes, the Tax Code provides for a deeply hidden norm in the “Perditional Positions” that virtually cancels the exemption from the use of electronic control-cassette devices by small businesses in Ukraine's markets. I want to remind you that 10 years ago, the very attempt to introduce money into markets caused an explosion, a social explosion in an environment of small businesses. The result was a three - day action, a thousand - day protest under the walls of the Supreme Council when entrepreneurs demanded an end to the abuse. Why are entrepreneurs against cashiers? Not because they're afraid of electronics, but because there's a really powerful administration behind the cash machine, where a little mistake turns into the destruction of a small enterprise. And under such conditions, entrepreneurs will certainly oppose the adoption of such a document. He needs a deep correction, he needs a change, and he needs to keep the basics of a simplified tax system.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u216	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u217	She justified herself in her 10 years of existence, which legalized entrepreneurs. I urge everyone not to step back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u218	Please, Oreste Mutz. Get ready for Kovalevski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u219	Orestes Mutz, faction of the Party of the Regions, Ternopolishte. Dear citizens, fellow MPs! This week, President Janukovic of Ukraine stressed the need to develop a strategy for the development of the regions of Ukraine, especially those where the worst economic situation has been in place, since the necessary system and approaches have not been developed in all years of independence and development. We need to look at such depressing regions as Sumstina, Hersonian, Ternopilish, Chernigovishte, there's a wage of 25 to 30 percent lower today compared to all other areas of Ukraine, the head of state said. Noting that the population of depressed areas should not suffer from low wages. As far as I'm concerned, because of the previous orange power, the area has really become depressed, although it has powerful conditions for agricultural development, it has a substantial human resource, the number of rural people here predominates the number of cities, it's a tourist land, it takes first place in the country behind a number of castles, it has a world-renowned shrine, and one of the seven natural wonders of Ukraine. There are several tens of thousands of students at the district center, and 1 out of every 3 speaks four or five languages thanks to forced recruitment abroad. The region even has two Ukrainian hero farmers. What does a farmer's hero mean for the heathen? Exhausted land is sown with reeds, the sugar branch is being destroyed, small farms are being eaten, and our peasants are being deceived. They are not concerned with the problems of the region and the opposition factions in the Ternopil shell, focusing on political issues. Yesterday, at a session of the Ternopil District Council, the opposition faction set up a commission to study facts as if it were persecution and political pressure on its deputies, although that is not really the case. That is, the opposition is trying to preserve the political disorder and the state of irresponsibility that it has so far. On behalf of the countrymen from the parliamentary rostrum, I'm calling on the new governor of the Mikhail Tsimbaluk district, the militia general with experience in law enforcement, and we're asking you to put an order in the area, ignore the local type of politics, and we'll help you. Then it will be possible that the previous orange governors failed to return the work force to the area, offer them decent paid jobs in their homeland, restore the glory of the area you remember back in your student years.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u220	Julia Kovalevska, Volinec Eugenius next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u221	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, honourable colleagues, distinguished TV and radio audiences, yesterday the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted a decision on the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council on the issue of lawfulness, decision-making by the National Council of Ukraine on television issues and radio talk about the conduct of competitions and the establishment of winners of competitions for obtaining, the recasting of language licenses using appropriate frequencies in 2005-2010. I will note that the decision to create such a commission is timely and necessary. More and more so from today’s opposition, there are loud statements about the suppression of freedom of speech, the onset of it, and the imposition of censorship. Under the terms “Stop Censorship”, “Censors No!”, representatives of some native media go out on the street and the field. The pressure for opposition and freedom of speech is called the Journalists of the TV channels and the “Fifth Channel” removing their frequencies, which were received on January 27th this year at the last moment of the activities of the previous authorities. At the time, happy winners did not demand the legal frequency of the competition process, did not write open letters to the President, everything was fine, everything was honest, clear and transparent. Why, now, some media, mostly owned by various opposition forces today, constantly try to provoke conflict where it does not exist. This is no longer surprising to ordinary citizens who have little interest in politics. Because in our country only the political powers are known to all. They are always crystal clear before the law. And the smallest interference in their affairs and the investigation of innocent fraud is immediately announced by oppression and political repression. There are provocative calls to stop interference with editorial policies, to reverse frequencies, to protect a group of favorite channels, and so forth. What is really going on? Today, for the first time in five years, a normal working team of government officials has been formed in Ukraine. The government has been trying to solve the problems that have accumulated in recent years, which have arisen in the background of economic crisis, but at the same time to be open and honest to society. We're not drawing things in pink, we're honestly talking about existing problems and we're looking for ways to solve them. In the country’s social and political life, there are many interesting topics for publicizing, many problems, and information reasons for getting to know them in general. I would like to note that many native media have conducted important policy information using the love and respect of listeners, viewers, and readers. It is known that in Ukraine more media have specific owners and sometimes they try to intervene in media activities, introduce self-censorship and “procurement of music”. Therefore, there is unverified or provocative information on orders that violates journalistic standards and ethical standards. Because that's how some editors fight for the audience, for them "the more fried, the better," and that's the result of the "gins", the "black guy". It's bitter and boring, but still, freedom of speech has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u222	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u223	Let me remind you, first of all, the media owner is the guarantor of an independent editorial policy worthy of paying workers' wages, their social protection. So don't look for a black cat in a dark room. I believe that under political pressure there is an effort to give political color to the struggle for its own interests. But we must not forget that freedom, not permissiveness, is primarily a responsibility not only to society but also to our own conscience. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u224	Eugene Volintz, followed by John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u225	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, respected voters. Today, I would like to raise a question that has been kept quiet and that cannot be resolved can lead to the dire consequences of the entire region. In the Donetsk region, 56 coal mines are currently under liquidation and the closure programme has no deadline and funding issues have not been resolved. A massive mine closure in the Donetsk region began in 1996, was transferred to 64 mines in 15 years, 8 mines were dismantled, and 56 enterprises were currently under liquidation. Such a simultaneous closure of deep mines had not occurred in world practice. The project cost of liquidation work is about 4 billion grivens as of 1 January 2010. It's already spent 3 billion greaves. Of this total expenditure incurred since the start of the liquidation, only 2 per cent of the costs under “Environmental activities” have been incurred. Last year, after the incompetent adjustment of the funding programme, there is no expenditure on the maintenance of watersheds at all. At the same time, domestic fuel expenditures accounted for almost 58 per cent of annual funding. But most dangerously, the structure of mine closure management is constantly being reformed. Such direct policies, which are inconsistent with mine disposal, could result in disasters. First. Increased seismic activity is threatening in the Donetsk region. And there's already been a 3-point earthquake in Donetsk. The water will increase their strength twice. If water reaches critical loads in flooded mines, earthquakes on the surface may be 6-bolt. This will result in the destruction of buildings and human sacrifices. Second problem. It's a disaster, a shift in active gas fields. Revitalization of the deformation of the earth's surface. Education of failures, submergment of territories, discharge of uncleaned mined waters. Third. Against the background of the above, the most secure. This is a negative environmental impact of fertilized wastes. Of the 600 terricones, 160 are now combustible. There is virtually no recycling and greening of fertile wastes. The dumps have become places of natural landfills of domestic and building debris. Given that the Donetsk region itself is not a classically clean, safe region, the territory could become a black mark on the map of Ukraine, the second Chernobyl. I would also like to say that the lack of funding is the most common reason why many responsibilities, plans and so on have not been fulfilled. By the way, I was recently approached by a voter whose case was withdrawn because of lack of funding in court. On the basis of the above, I believe that it is necessary to verify the feasibility of mine closure, to develop new criteria for the elimination of mines, to review the governance structure, the closure of mines, taking into account the revision of the functions of central, regional and local authorities. Addressing complex issues of interest and competence at all levels. And record it at the programme level and possible laws. To establish a special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to monitor this process. Check with the competent authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u226	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u227	To verify to the competent authorities the spending on mine disposal in 2009, taking into account the fact that many of the required items were not allocated and 56 per cent were spent on domestic coal. At the same time, domestic fuel has not been fully available to all categories of citizens who use this standard. There have been cases where the consumption rate has been reduced by decision of officials. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u228	Ivan Hare, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u229	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the phenomena that signal that the anti-Ukraine and anti-democracy convolution are unfolding in Ukraine, and we all have to put this behind us. Thus, Kharkiv authorities have essentially turned the city into a repressive force against the citizens who care about the fate of Kharkiv and their state. For the past 10 days, Ukraine has watched the showy banditry of hundreds of trees in Gorykog Park and the brutal beatings of citizens who have defended these green lungs of the city. The one who observed these fields through the snake became convinced that the entire patriotic society of Ukraine is in solidarity with the park’s supporters. At the same time, local authorities began repression against Ukrainian intelligence, and environmental, cultural, and political rights of citizens were threatened. And if we don't stop this plague, Ukraine will soon become an authoritarian state. As an illustration of these words, I will read to you the address of citizens as the Ukrainian National Deputy: “To the leaders of public organizations who wrote a letter to the President of the United States of Obama concerning the illegal eviction by the Kharkiv Cultural and Educational Centre of the Kharkiv Municipal Society, the Prosecutor's Office of the Kharkiv Region is working on a criminal offence. An article under the first chapter of the Criminal Code on Crimes Against the Fundamentals of National Security of Ukraine should be incriminating to the signatories of the U.S. President. Apparently, in line with the political situation in order to subdue the opposition public activists, the public prosecutor of the Kharkiv region came up with a broad-based process based on a historical example of the process, which in the 20s and 30s legalized total repression of Ukrainian intelligence. The list of present - day enemies of the nation includes the famous Kharkiv Ukrainian culture actors, scientists, artists, cobsars, who signed a letter to U.S. President Obama. It is remarkable that the pressure on the leaders of Harkov’s civil organizations, who wrote the letter Obama, began immediately after they announced their campaign to remove Harkov’s memorial board from the territory of Kharkiv’s founding member of the Black 100’s Department, Andria Viazigin, who in the early 20th century was celebrated with the active propaganda of xenophobia and led the pogroms over the representatives of the Jewish community and the Ukrainian culture of the city. This black - centenary memorial board was officially opened in Kharkiv with the participation of members of the Kharkiv People’s Republic and the mayor’s leadership. In the political process of signing a letter to the President of the United States, the Ukrainian Security Service in the Kharkiv region is involved, which is empowered to determine the extent to which the new enemies of the nation are at risk for the state sovereignty of Ukraine. As can be seen from the text of the U.S.O.B. leadership request in Kharkiv district to one of the initiators of the Obama form, style and methods of unfolding the accused are very similar to the methods of the 20-30th century C.E.C.C. I demand that the President of Ukraine, the Government of Ukraine as the guarantor of the Constitution and the rights of citizens stop these political persecutions. Today, Ukraine says goodbye to its great son, the brilliant director, the writer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u230	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u231	The director, the writer, the politician, the winner of the Shevchenk Prize, Yuri Ilyenck. This loss is irreparable. In honoring him, we are obliged to do our utmost to restore Ukrainian spirituality, including the Ukrainian cinematographer, in the name of the memory of Yuri Ilyenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-18-m0.u232	Yes, dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussions. Finally, let me remind you that the national deputies are working with the electorate next week. Tuesday, again, on Tuesday, June 29, at 9 a.m., the Conciliation Council of the Deputies will be held. The plenary session will begin on Tuesday at 10 a.m. Let us once again welcome the medical staff with a professional holiday to be celebrated during the day. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed.
