ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:19]] Cards were registered in the 413 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine Dubovy Alexander Fedorovich. Let us welcome our colleague, and wish us good health. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary on 10 March 2010. Ten questions of the agenda have been considered. As a result of the review, six laws were passed, and three bills were adopted as a basis. Dear National Deputies, the list of issues that are proposed for discussion today, you have. Please. Dear colleagues, is there a question before our meeting? Please sign up for one minute to communicate. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like you to sign up for an exchange of views on the organization of our work today. The recording is in progress, please. National MP Pavlovsky, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u2	Andrey Pavlowski, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko". I give up my word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u3	To whom should the right to speak be delegated? The Microphone of the Pavlovsky National MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u4	Vladimir Dmitrovitch, in preparation for the constitutional coup d'état in violation of the Constitution and the creation of an illegal government, there is nothing left to say. We're going to be witnesses to a violation of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u5	Thank you. Please, Alexander Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u6	The distinguished Vladimir Mihajlovich, respected colleagues, must probably end the walls and the Supreme Council must begin its work. And concrete work requires that we have a government in the State that would eventually prepare a basic law in the State, the State Budget Act. Without this document, we cannot move any further, so there is a proposal: to organize and decide today to announce a coalition, a coalition to hold a meeting. And if the coalition is ready, vote for the Prime Minister and the Cabinet of Ministers today. The sooner we finish this work, the sooner we begin to get out of the state in which we have been led by those who today demand that the State continue to be in the state where it is today and to which it has been brought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u7	The Communist faction, please, Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u8	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Communist faction, Martinyuk. I think it's true colleagues, and especially a colleague of Ephraim, who says that, according to this thesis, our leader's opinion that we can't live like this. Indeed, we have already promised that the budget would be before the New Year, promised it would be after the New Year, promised it would be in March, and March will be over soon. Therefore, if there is, and to the extent that we are informed, there is every prerequisite for today's Chairman to make an announcement on the creation of a coalition that is ready to take responsibility for the situation in the state, then we must act in this way: to announce the creation of a coalition, to conduct the necessary organizational arrangements, to ask the President of Ukraine for the appointment of the Prime Minister and to address all the human resources issues involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u9	Yes, are there still speakers? Yes, please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u10	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, let's stop any violation of the Constitution. Yesterday, a further violation of the Constitution took place, namely the signing of amendments to the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I now stress the shared responsibility, Mr. Head, of all the heads of the authorities that Mr. Stelmam, as head of the National Bank, has been in office illegally for more than two years, and I demand that he stop trampling on the Constitution. As for the order of the day, I ask the bill 3051-1, which stands today at the tenth and which I think the turn won't come, is about the duality of the election of the measure, to put in among the first bills, to adopt it, until nothing begins here, no blockades.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u11	Thank you. Taras Cranville, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u12	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! To the order of the day that is given, there are only two, indeed, warnings. First. The coalition process has gone, it has to be completed, so it has to be put somewhere. And secondly, I'm back to yesterday's warning. When an instrument of ratification, namely, the denunciation of the tripartite agreement No. 0160, went missing in some incomprehensible way yesterday. There is no explanation why the decision of the Conciliation Board has not been executed in this case, so we need to know today whether there have been any problems with this document or to consider it today when it will be available.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u13	Thank you. Regarding the instrument of ratification. It was found that the order had been given to the apparatus to put it under review today. And if not, we will not be able to make it tomorrow, so that the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be taken. Dear National Deputies! I'm giving you a message. In accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 61 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare the formation and registration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Coalition of Deputies 'Stability and Reform' in the Supreme Council of Ukraine the Sixth Call. A coalition of MP factions was formed on the basis of the Treaty on the Coalition of Deputies in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, signed by the heads of the MP factions: the deputy faction of the Party of the Regions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the factions of the Communist Party of Ukraine, the factions of the ‘Litvina’ Block, the National Party, the Labour Party of Ukraine in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the national deputies of Ukraine, consisting of 235 national deputies of Ukraine, who signed their treaty to become members of the coalition. [[Congrats]] The lists of members of the designated MPs and Ukrainian national deputies with the personal signatures of the national MPs, which are an integral part of the coalition agreement, are added. Taking this into account, fellow believers, and at the offer of three factions, I announce a recess to hold the faction before the congregations. to hold coalition assemblies up to 11 o’clock. There's a break to 11 o'clock.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing our meeting. I ask the initiators to inform the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the decision taken during the recess. Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, with any issue that we face today in the decision, we are on the same subject that, if there is no State budget, if there is no Government, it is impossible to go anywhere, and I think that everyone will agree. Therefore, the main challenge facing the entire room is not only to the coalition that has already been created, but to the opposition of the well-respected one, which has also declared its existence, we must make a vertically integrated governance structure in a State that can work effectively. It is for this purpose that we have gathered today in the Hall those who have joined the coalition and are taking responsibility for the withdrawal of the country from the economic impasse in which it has been for a number of reasons that we will not analyse what it is. As a result of the meeting that was held, you know, I will once again inform you that the coalition has unanimously voted in favour of a coalition of 235 members. And the coalition has proposed to the members of the Supreme Council the nomination of Azarov Nikolai Janović for the post of Prime Minister of our State. We would ask you, distinguished colleagues, to unite around this candidature and to vote, if possible, not only on the members of the coalition, but also on our distinguished deputies, who are now in opposition. You've told us many times, and today we're forced. and then we agreed, and today we are forced to reaffirm that both the coalition and the opposition, in fact, must do one thing for the development of our State. If we resist our desire for one another to this day, we will get only one thing that will be worse in our country. I don't think there's at least one person in this room who sets that goal and would be delegated by his constituents to realize that goal right here in this room. You know that Nikolai Janović Azarov's candidacy was voted on by 100 per cent of all the deputies who signed on to join the coalition. To make it. We have taken a break for a further technical reason so that at this time Nikolai Janović can reconsider his nominations to the Cabinet of Ministers. And today you have been given documents on those members of the Government, and you can read the documents for those members of the Government who will be recommended for voting today. [[End up handing them out now, if anyone doesn't get it, you'll get it in the next few minutes.]] I reiterate my strong request from the members of the coalition to vote in favour of the Government today for all the people's deputies present in the Chamber. At least put an end to another issue that is making us move forward in the normalization of the situation in the State and in the aftermath of all the other problems that we are talking about in this room so often today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u16	Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko, please ask for the floor, Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u17	Dear voters! Dear colleagues in the Presidium! Of course, our faction does not recognize such a coalition that it was created in the face of a grave violation of the Basic Law, and we have repeatedly stated this. It is surprising to us and society that Communists and large businesses have come together. All over the world, they're political antipods, so the commo-oligarchy system of power is nonsense, and it's a pity that it happened in Ukraine. Third. We expect that the Constitutional Court will once again give a clear assessment of these actions, and that will be an unprecedented fact in our history, because the decision on this issue, namely, that as a coalition is formed, has already been made by court once and is not subject to suit. According to article 68 of the Rules, which reads as follows: “The deputate faction whose composition number is more than half of the national deputies who did not form part of the coalition and head, or whose deputy head, at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council, has declared opposition to the political course of the coalition and its established Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, is an opposition to the MP’s faction.” According to article 68, which I have just declared, the Rules, the faction today made a unanimous decision to move against an illegal coalition and also against an illegal government. Today we are also forming an opposition government, a government of the future. We're transferring the protocol to the Presidium.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, we are invited to make adjustments to our work and consider the following questions. Presentation by the President of Ukraine of the nomination for the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Minister of Defence, as well as the head of the Ukrainian Security Service. Then consider the appointment of the prime minister, then decide on the release of the current prime minister of Ukraine and the composition of the Cabinet of Ministers. After that, if a decision is taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, then consider the formation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and further appropriate procedures that are required of those people who are national deputies and should, and become members of the government, and should carry out procedures for the formation of parliamentary powers. This is when, in case, honourable colleagues, when these issues are considered, will receive positive support. From. [[B in m in s a l in]] What? It means all the co-conspirators. Dear colleagues, according to the rules, if they have not been authorized for 20 days, please have these issues examined by the Committee on Rules, MPs, the organization of the work of the Supreme Council, and have them submitted to the Chief of the Supreme Council on the referral of documents to the court, and I will do so immediately. But I hope that all the people who have crossed over, i.e. the national MPs, have moved to work in the executive structure of power, they will do the constitutional duty, they will write the relevant statements. So, dear colleagues, I just wanted to ask you to consider that when considering the appointment of the Prime Minister of Ukraine in accordance with the Rules, the candidate for the post is given up to 20 minutes. Then on. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I'd like to say that the President of Ukraine (you've seen the standard) is going to make an appropriate submission, and then it will. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, and then it will be given to you, everything will be according to the way it is required. Then we'll have to figure out how many minutes it takes to question the reporter and discuss the candidate. We have one hour to complete our consideration of the matter. So in 20 minutes, the candidate's report is proposed, 15 minutes a question, and the rest is to take the rest away from the factions and the national MPs in the discussion. Is there no objection? Well, let's move on to these issues. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic, president of Ukraine, participates in our work. Dear National Deputies! In accordance with article 114 of the Ukrainian Constitution, the Prime Minister of Ukraine is appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the submission of the President of Ukraine. According to article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the coalition of MP factions has submitted its proposal for the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine to the President of Ukraine. Also today, with respect to articles 106 and 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine introduced the appointment of the Minister of Defence of Ukraine and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, as well as the appointment of the head of the Ukrainian Security Service and the corresponding discharge of the head of the Ukrainian Security Service. To represent the candidate for the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine and Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, President of Ukraine Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u19	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Dear friends! In accordance with article 106 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I am submitting to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and I ask that you support the application for the appointment of Gristenko Kostunica Ivanovich as Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine. In accordance with article 106 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and ask for support in the application for the appointment of Ježel Mikhail Bronislavovich as Minister of Defence of Ukraine. In accordance with article 106 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and ask for support in the application for exemption from the post of Head of the Ukrainian Security Service. In accordance with article 106 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and ask that I support the application for the post of Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Valery Ivanovic. In carrying out my constitutional duty, I submit, in accordance with article 106 of the Constitution of Ukraine, at the suggestion of a coalition of MP factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, an application for appointment as Prime Minister of Ukraine Nikola Janović Azarov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u20	Thank you, Victor Fedorovich. In accordance with article 25 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, honourable national deputies are invited to consider the matter at the time of appointment of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. For a presentation on the main directions for future activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the candidate for the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine, Nikola Janović Azarov, is up to 20 minutes. Questions to Mikola Janović Azarov and the answers to them are within 15 minutes. Take the rest of the time to discuss the candidature, that is, within an hour. Is there no objection? None. I invite you to speak with Mikola Janović Azarov, the candidate for the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u21	Dear Mr. President! Dear National Deputies! In the election of the President of Ukraine, the Ukrainian people gave a clear answer and signal to politicians -- the current situation in Ukraine has reached a critical limit and needs to be changed. Our task is to restore responsible, effective and just authority to the people. We speak honestly about the country’s situation and clearly state what we want to do. Last week from the Supreme Council’s rostrum, I reported on the critical state of Timoshenko’s government. In short: the country is looted, the state's execution is empty, the economic downturn continues, the debt held has tripled, and the 2010 budget is gone. So we're going to have to rebuild Ukraine, every branch, every region and system of governance as a whole. We will do our utmost to make Ukraine a state with the highest rule of law, without corruption and the dictatorship of political relevance; a state with the most favourable investment climate for citizens and business; a state that will ensure and protect the rights and freedoms of citizens in its country and beyond; a state where there will be no strong economic contrast and the middle class will make up more than half of the population; a gross internal product per capita should be at the level of the minimum of the new members of the European Union; a competitive education aimed at developing the knowledge economy; a modern accessible medicine from Kiev to every village; an energy-efficient organic production; a productive agricultural economy at the level of better standards; a service sector that meets European standards. We have a program to get the country out of crisis, as well as experience and a team that can successfully implement it. The government's work will be based on the goals set by President Viktor Yanukovic of Ukraine, “Ukraine for the People”. The most important task for today is to develop and adopt a realistic budget. It is through the budget that the key task of eradicating poverty will begin. The adoption of the budget will unlock many other issues, ranging from preparing for the Euro-2012 to providing financial security for the regions. We should not forget that one third of the local budgets are more than 90 percent. We will also eliminate the financial problems accumulated by the past government in the social sphere, in education, in health, in culture. At the same time, there is a question of how to fill the budget. Here the answer is extremely simple, it's the rise of the economy. The budget deficit must be minimal, and each free bracelet must be invested in development. The order of government finances will be tough. The main thrusts of State support for the real sector include: reducing tax pressure and tax incentives, modernizing, using new technologies in manufacturing, increasing motivation for entrepreneurial activities and creating new jobs, reducing regulatory and administrative barriers in the field of licensing, allowing the system, technical regulation; budget support for sectoral programmes; and restoring government capital deposits that will signal business on investment direction, especially infrastructure. Small business enterprises will be set up to do their utmost, including tax holidays for 5 years. Steps will be taken immediately to increase domestic demand and redirect export capacity to the internal market. Let me remind you that this is one of the most important anti-crisis measures we've talked about since September 2008. We're going to solve the problem of unreparable VAT, which has tripled during the work of the previous government. We will begin this work immediately and by the end of the year the acute problem will be removed. Measures will be taken to restore lending to the real economy. The role of the Cabinet of Ministers here is extremely important. First of all, the government, through acting operations in the internal credit market, has an impact on the value of money. Secondly, the government has the opportunity to partially offset interest on loans. Simply put, reduce the cost of loans to enterprises in separate fields. I think that's where the enterprises of the agrarian complex should come first, which are in a very difficult situation during spring-field work. We will expand the use of State intervention mechanisms, price regulation and public-private partnerships. We're going to put order in the financial situation of state-owned enterprises. First of all, this applies to NAK “Naftogaz Ukraine”, which from a firm that has a stable budget has become a consumer of budget resources. We also need to deal with "Stupid," "Energoatoma", "Stolen" and so on. An extremely important task is to restore the balance of payments of Ukraine. This will be done through an exit to the nearest prospect of a positive external trade surplus. Promoting the growth of foreign direct investment, stopping capital outflows from the country. We will continue structural reforms: tax, pension, budgetary, social, which were stopped by the previous government. In the near future, the implementation of housing reforms, the widespread deployment of energy-saving technologies. Equally important is the formation of a powerful domestic system of financial services, including banking, insurance, and investment services. Particular attention will be paid to reforming the judicial system, overcoming corruption and protecting property rights in Ukraine. I'm sure the result will be achieved. We're going to set up a reliable basis for accelerating economic growth on the basis of an investment and innovation model, enhancing the competitiveness of national producers. And most importantly, improving the quality of people's lives. Dear National Deputies! I thank you for your attention and count on your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, the performance is over. Please sign up for the question, 15 minutes. Please, Your Honor. There's a recording of the performance. On the question, I'm sorry. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the board. National MP Suprunenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u23	I give my word to my colleague, Pecklesenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u24	Dear Nikolai Janović, well, first of all, congratulations. Second, three short questions. How do you feel about taking up this position? The second question is, when, by whom and how do you intend to monitor the country's financial, budgetary system? In this regard, do you not consider it appropriate to establish an inter-ministerial group composed of representatives of Kabmin, regions and people's deputies? Do you think such cooperation will be productive and when you expect a budget to be introduced to the Supreme Council?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u25	In the mood of what? I'd like to introduce you to Alexander Nikolayevich. [[Applause]] Budget. It takes the Government a month to budget. Today, 11 March, the budget will be submitted to the Supreme Council on 11 April. [[Applause]] With regard to the monitoring team, I am in favour of setting up such a group. And we invite the opposition just mentioned to participate in the establishment of such a monitoring group.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u26	Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u27	Dear Nikolai Janovich! Grigory Smith, Party of Regions. You know, as a professional in finance and economics, as a whole, the management of the State in which the agricultural sector has been in a difficult state over the past two years, because budget funding has not been actually implemented, not one article that has been envisaged for the agricultural sector. Please tell me two questions. Do you believe that the agricultural sector is one of the main economic and developmental pillars of a country that can pull out in general, and should it be given attention? And the second question. Do you not think it would be appropriate for the agricultural sector to establish a State bank, an agricultural bank that would deal with and care for this sector that is crucial to the economy of the country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u28	We must do everything we can to ensure that the country provides all its agricultural products within the next 2-3 years. What we have now is, let's put it mildly, a disgrace to our country. This problem, therefore, will continue to be at the top of the agenda of the Government. With regard to the establishment of a State bank. I am not in favour of setting up such an institution, as I know the specificity of the financing of the agro-industry complex. The fact that it could be a specialized commercial bank that would specialize in these operations is quite possible. We will support the establishment of such a bank. In any event, the agrarian sector will receive strong support from the first few days.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u29	Catherine Sameylik, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u30	Thank you. Dear Mikolo Janovich, I have the next question. Of course, one of the main issues, by the way, and to solve the issue of combating poverty, is the fight against unemployment. And among the main problems, I think, is the problem of providing young people with housing. For the past two years, this problem and the implementation of the State Programme for Youth Housing have virtually failed. I know that the government, when there was an anti-crisis coalition and a coalition of national unity, we were working together on this issue, because we understand that young people should not go abroad, not seek a better destiny, we need to create the necessary conditions for them. Please tell me if there will be a government that you will no doubt lead to preferring as a priority the implementation of the Youth Housing Program in our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u31	I've already said in my statement that, first of all, each rigid economy regime, every piled-up penny should go to development. That's the key to getting out of the crisis. What are the mechanisms for dealing with the crisis? Construction. Anything you can invest, we'll invest in construction. The construction of housing must certainly be financed not only by the State but not even by the State. But it is a task of the State to create conditions for investment in construction. With regard to the fight against unemployment, no one will create artificial jobs. We will create conditions under which business will be interested in creating new jobs, that is all I can say now. Of course, there will be a state programme to combat unemployment, create new jobs. But once again, the task of the Government is as high as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u32	Sergey Ljowczyn, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u33	Please pass the word to Harry Vassil Georgiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u34	Basil Hara, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u35	Dear Nikolai Janović, congratulations! But you don't envy it. The predecessors have left behind vast ruins. And I want to ask you four short questions. Do you know the true state of affairs in the economy, in the country, or do you need more time to study? Second, will you tell the people the whole truth about the state of the economy and the finances? Third. You will dare to take unpopular measures without taking them. And second, as will be the case with the election promises: to fulfil social standards, to raise social standards. And the fourth. As you plan to cooperate with the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions, an association of employers in the sense of social dialogue. Can we expect a significant improvement in social dialogue in our country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u36	Do I know the true state of the economy and the financial situation? I guess I do. Do I know everything? I guess I don't know everything. Therefore, the task of the Government, I can give an example of an elementary one. These are, for example, State guarantees that have been issued. To whom have they been handed over? On what basis? On what terms? What conditions for return? How much State guarantees should be placed in the 2010 budget? I don't know the answer to these questions yet, but I will know them very soon. With regard to the adoption of so-called unpopular measures. Is the Government ready to take unpopular measures? First of all, we need to examine what needs to be done first of all to address the problem of poverty. And our Government will do its utmost to ensure that the main gravity of the crisis is not placed on the poor, believe me.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u37	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u38	We must make full use of all the resources of the budget, the economy, the resources of the rich, which we have enough in the country to bear the brunt of the crisis. Of course, if we have to take firm action, we will explain to people what hard measures we are taking and we will go to them, and there should be no doubt. Because the situation in the country is of course critical. And in the end, dialogue with trade unions. Certainly a dialogue with trade unions. Finally, a dialogue with the political forces. Certainly a dialogue with the opposition. We call for constructive dialogue first of all. The scale of the challenges facing the country requires consolidation of efforts. We will therefore be as careful as possible with all constructive proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u39	Another divine, non-fractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u40	Nikolai Janović, two questions. How long will your vision take to stabilize the situation and maintain order? And when are you prepared to propose a plan for serious reforms agreed upon, as I understand it, with the position of the President? So that we can give society at least some lighthouses, how long will it take to set things straight, and when will there be serious reforms? And the second short question. We know about the level of corruption of government officials today, bureaucracy, the tax service, are you ready to work hard here now, or are we going to see a great deal of anti-corruption in these areas again? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u41	How long? We expect that in the course of 2010, we will stabilize the situation in the country. 2010 will be a year of stabilization. Of course, we know the predictions of the world's leading economists predicting the second wave of crisis. Ukraine, therefore, and the second wave is scheduled for 2012, must be ready for a possible second wave of crisis. Finally, I think 2012 will be a turning point for us. We will all do our best to start implementing structural reforms from day one. But reforms must be prepared. And we will implement them and implement them when the country is ready to implement them. As far as corruption is concerned, I want to tell you all in advance if the head of government does not take it personally, if the minister does not take it, believe me, corruption can be dealt with.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u42	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u43	That is why in this room we must look each other in the eye honestly and say that we will be firm and that the President requires that approach. We will tenderly say good - bye or say good - bye to those on whom even a shadow of suspicion of corruption will lie. This is exactly the kind of rigid approach that will be taken by the Government. I don't promise my ministers an easy life. Not that situation. If we evaluated the situation of our predecessors as looting, that is, rudely, corruption, when a country is in agony and in ruins, we will apply no less to ourselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u44	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u45	Dear Nikolai Janović, in your brief statement, you have called poverty eradication and the rise in social standards a priority. Indeed, there are 12 million people below the poverty line today. President Yanukovic's first decree was to overcome poverty, first decree, and I'd like to ask you. This is how you will be able to implement the law that we fought for: we Communists, the Block of Lithuania, to raise the minimum pensions, to raise the wages that Timoshenko has frozen? It's a lot of resources, and we need to find money. In this regard, Nikolai Janović, you do not consider it necessary for the Government to conduct an international audit to show what these forces have left to you. Because you have not yet begun to work, but are already under the impression that our political power and we are refusing to supplement the Social Standards Act. We will do so, but we need to know with what resources. Again. Will there be an international audit? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u46	I think there will be an international audit. It's in our common interest. And the answers to the questions you have put will be submitted to the draft State budget for 2010, which will be submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council in mid-April.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u47	People's MP Mankowski, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u48	Please pass the word to Chechev Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u49	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u50	Dear Nikolai Janović, at a difficult time for the country, you will be in charge of the Cabinet of Ministers: empty execution, huge debts, 25 billion no value added tax has been refunded. About 12 billion are taxes that have been made in 2, 3, 4 months from entrepreneurs and businesses and industrial enterprises. It is clear that, in this situation, there may be no need to have borrowed resources, without cooperation with international financial organizations. That's the question. Should these loans be taken from international financial organizations, from Sweet Bank, from the International Monetary Fund, the direction of the use of this money will remain the same as that of Timoshenko, or are you radically changing the direction of these borrowing credit resources? What are the priorities for which you first intend to use them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u51	Our Government will cooperate and cooperate actively with all international financial organizations, including the importance of cooperation with the International Monetary Fund. Therefore, all that will be aimed at major projects will not only be supported by the Government but will also be actively implemented. I hope that international financial organizations, well aware of the real financial situation of Ukraine, will resume their cooperation programme with Ukraine. We hope that this programme will be expanded and, most importantly, revised in terms of the realities that are now in our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u52	Time's up. Thank you, Mikola Janovich. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for a question. I'm asking you, Your Honor, the distribution here to the opposition and the coalition has no right to ask the question. Dear colleagues, I now ask you to sign up for the performances, first from factions, or factions, after the national deputies. 25 minutes takes time. Please, Your Honor, there's a recording going on. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. National Deputy Demidko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Basil Hara, faction of the Party of the Regions. Vladimir Moses will be next. Just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, today is such a very sunny day not only because the sun, but because the changes are very good in our Parliament, and the country is waiting for the positive changes that will be, I am sure they will. With regard to the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister's nominations, Nikolai Janović, I can say that I have known him for a long time, I know from the 1980s to the 1990s, when he was the initiator of the creation of social movements to change the country's life, even then of the Soviet Union; the person who headed the largest institution, the doctor of science, had very good positive results in his work, in his public activities. I know him as the first Deputy Prime Minister to have visited the Government of Ukraine twice in our modern life. Don't let my predecessors insult me, and the current opposition doesn't insult me, but the figures are stubborn. As soon as Viktor Fedorović Janukovic, as Prime Minister and Nikolai Janović, came to power as Vice-Prime Minister, we immediately had positive changes in the Cabinet of Ministers. I would like to remind you of the distinguished colleagues in 2004, when they removed, removed by illegal means the Government of Yanukovic, the coalition and so on, the figures of 12.5 per cent, the growth of the domestic gross product. European economists have named the Yanukovic Government the most effective in the history of Ukraine's independence. And very good for those results was Nikolai Janović Azarov, who led the economic and financial blocs. I would like to recall that it was then that wages began to rise by 25 per cent annually, and it was since 2004 that the minimum pension had become the minimum minimum living minimum, which had been increased twice since 2004, and social indicators had been increased twice since 2004. I can tell by comparison. 2005, already the new Prime Minister. Internal gross product growth is 2 and a half per cent. 2006: From August to 1 January 2007, the Anti-Crist Party of the Regions programme was implemented and the economic, financial, social and political crises in the country were eliminated. The lion's share in the process of the then First Deputy Prime Minister Nikolai Janović Azarov. He's a man of business, he's a man of today and tomorrow. I am convinced that, as Prime Minister in the most difficult times, you will not come up with a better candidate than Nikolai Janović. I would therefore like to support not only the coalition, but also the opposition, Nikolai Yanović, for the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine, if we want to have positive changes, we have saved the country from total collapse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u54	Viacheslav Kirilenko from the faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Peter Simonenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u55	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine! ” Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! It's not just a government that can now form, and it's a government of an unconstitutional, illegal coalition, but it's not just that. She was led by the newly elected President Viktor Yanukovic, who also nominated Mikli Azarov as Prime Minister of Ukraine. So from the very beginning, he's responsible for all the actions of this office and everything that's going on in the country. What the initiator of such a government has done since its arrival on the streets of Bankow, on the presidential post in Ukraine, and it is clear that it will be a shadow and a guide for the future government. First, in Moscow, it is proposed that the Ukrainian gas transport system be put into joint management, but then no pipe will be taken away from Ukraine. Second, in Moscow it is suggested that the English language be given and that the Russian language be introduced in Ukraine. Third, Moscow has made a commitment to take the Order of the Hero of Ukraine to Stephen Bandera. [[B in m in s a l in]] Fourth, cancelled, more specifically, substantially reduced. Fourth, the National Schewchenk Prize has been substantially reduced. Fifth, a coalition of “cartoons” was created. Sixth, the government that had to carry out economic reforms, as promised in the elections, and to pursue stability, would fight for its failure. For his legitimacy. Because from the very beginning it is illegal, like a coalition that is unconstitutional. So the question arises: What and why were these discussions about stability, reform, order, and prosperity? Obviously it was just a conversation to pick up the electorate. Now it's absolutely clear to everyone. It is easier for me to speak on this subject because I have no coalition or even half - coalition obligations. The “For Ukraine!” group knew from the outset that talking about portfolios, positions, chairs with the Party of Regions was pointless. Because everything will be done in the way it will be decided on the political side of this party, no matter what the country thinks, no matter what Europe thinks, no matter what the world thinks. This means that there will be further steps taken by the new Cabinet, which would not have led it, and who would not have held the ministerial office in such a government. Therefore, we officially report that the “For Ukraine!” MP group did not join and could not join the coalition. The “bastards” who entered there on our part will be condemned and given a political assessment. Secondly, we do not vote in favour of the Prime Minister. Third, we don't vote for the Cabinet. Fourthly, we will clearly strike at the hands of all those who are going to become engrossed in the gains that the Ukrainians have made, especially in recent years. Because if you've come to the rematch, that means that we and Ukraine are not on the road with you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u56	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, Communist faction. Is Oleg Lazko next? It's a BUT faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u57	Respected colleagues, respected voters, the Company's faction supported the establishment of a coalition to ensure, firstly, the unity of action of all branches of government — presidential, legislative and executive. The election of the President by many of our Ukrainian citizens, our electors have sincerely associated with the possibility of order in our country, after all. And speaking of support for the establishment of a coalition, the faction of the Company was that there was a real need to ensure that the promises made by President Yanukovic during the elections were fulfilled. To put an end to the orange anarchy and madness in our country, we have to put an end to the orange dusk, which corrupts the country and destroys the unity of our people. [[Applause]] Naturally, we are tasked with ending the manicism of power organized by the orange ideologies and their guides. We naturally assume that power, after all, in the State must be real, firm, principled, consistent and constructive. The formation of a coalition and the formation of the Cabinet of Ministers, first of all, we support Nikolai Janović Azarov's candidacy, and we aim to ensure that the promises made during the elections are fulfilled. That is why we must begin our practical work. And the adoption of the budget, as already discussed here, and the implementation of the promise of a real increase in social standards, i.e. minimum wages, minimum pensions, living standards. This is the support of the Ukrainian producer, particularly by reducing the value added tax, the five-year tax breaks proposed for small and medium-sized businesses, the reduction of the tax on arrival to 19 per cent in 2011 and, virtually, in the following years to 16 per cent, this is the promise to gasify our villages, remote settlements in rural areas, the construction of roads and social facilities, that is, the restoration of the field obstetric and obstetric centres, that is, the protection systems of our citizens. We considered, the Company faction, that it would be the organization of the work of the government that would enable today's practical methods and practical ways to protect the interests of our citizens, that it would be the formation of a public anti-crisis food basket, that would be the support of those who today need support at the birth of the child of the first - 25,000, the second - 50,000, the third - 100,000. I mean, once again, this is a practical policy that needs to be addressed today. It is natural, and the fight against corruption, it is the protection of the right of citizens to the second language of the State, the fight against unemployment, the promise to abolish the defiant decrees on the assignment of the name Hero Ukraine to the traitors of the Ukrainian people and the Soviet people of Shuhević and Bandera. Dear coalition colleagues, I address you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u58	Finish up, please. Finish it, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u59	I am addressing you, I would like to ask your distinguished colleagues, let us do everything we can to ensure that the law enforcement authorities finally take up their duties. And starting today with the audit, we have to show.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u60	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to accept such an offer. So that we can complete our consideration of the issues that are defined, without interruption. Is there no objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u61	Thank you. Oleg Laszko, faction of the “Blanket of Yulia Timoshenko”. Sergey Greenewecki will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u62	Oleg Laszko, Yulia Block Timoshenko. Today will no doubt be a black day in Ukrainian history. Because millions of Ukrainian citizens today have the opportunity to observe how, in an unconstitutional way, a coalition in violation of article 83 of the Constitution was formed in the Supreme Council. As today's criminal-communist-oligarchy clan, through the formation of an illegal government, is on its way to power. Here people were speaking, telling them that they remembered Azariah well. I think that millions of Ukrainian citizens remember the work of Mikola Janović Azarov very well. In his power, the people had not received salaries and pensions for months. During the days, they sat without light in the houses. It was then that Azarov was in power with Kuchma. Remember how Azarov, as the first vice-premier here, from this place, sent us here in the hall far away. Thus, when he reached the post of Prime Minister, he would send the entire Ukrainian people away. Recall how Azarov boasted about the major achievement of his government, which cost the cabbage. These are the achievements that Mr. Azarov boasted about. And I think that if soon, and this power doesn't last long, because dishonestly gained power will go away just as quickly. Soon he will be as boastful of his accomplishments as he did of the cabbage. But unfortunately, for millions of citizens, 12 million citizens who voted in favour of the Party of the Regions will be a great disappointment to the fact that this team is in power. For even today we can say that there will be no fulfillment of promises. Where is the laudable law on social standards that you've talked about so much about six months before the election? What are you hiding from him, taking him to the Supreme Council Hall? Why is he in the hall for two months before he reads again? Vladimir Mikhailovich, put him on trial tomorrow. Tomorrow, for consideration by the Supreme Council, draft laws to reduce to 16 percent the value added tax, to reduce to 17 percent the income tax, to help children with families up to 18 years of age, to implement child support at birth. All these bills have already been registered. Vladimir Mikhailovich, put them on the Supreme Council's agenda and we will see how the new government of Azarov and his Ministry of Finance will strongly oppose these bills. Unfortunately, they lie only before the election, and after the election, they have no need to lie. The government that's forming right now, it's going to be unprofessional, it's not going to work in national interests, because it's shaped by the clan sign, by the distribution of business interests. You see who the Ministry of Economics will lead? Chush! That doesn't have anything to do with the economy. Are you going to bring Ukraine out of the crisis with such specialists? Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u63	Sergey Greenewecki, Lithuanian Block faction. Get Petrenko ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u64	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Head, Your Honor, you know you can be in opposition to power, but as far as I'm concerned, you can't be in opposition to the state. Unfortunately, according to recent United Nations data, the nation has entered the 46th that has not taken place. The state is on the verge of getting back to the FATF blacklists and it's clear that the main task of any government is to create leadership by the state and basic executive discipline. I know for a fact that there will be no nonsense under the government of Azarov when the heads of the district authorities cannot come to the government meetings because they are not released. To me, as a proponent of strong regional policy, I stress that the State’s regional policy is absolutely clear that it is the key to uniting the state in this dimension. And it's clear that today's government is going to have to solve the urgent issues of ownership, land relations, energy dependence, and, most importantly, get the economy of the state out of the shadows. For what brings forth the shadow today? They're insolent non-payments to the state budget, they're non-returning the value added tax, they're smuggling and paying the wages in envelopes. If you enter the basic conditions of state budgeting, of creating socio-economic and cultural development programmes, both state and territory, we have a perspective and light at the end of this tunnel. On behalf of the faction, I want to wish the government, the prime minister of creative inspiration and confidence in tomorrow -- it hasn't bothered anyone yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u65	The National MP Petrenko is transferring the right to speak to Vladimir Bondarenko, a faction of the "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko". Hanna Herman will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u66	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, Party “Reforms and Orders”. Today’s session and the issues under consideration are the result of the long - term cooperation of the two Victors. She felt, the people knew about it, the politicians knew. One was trying to get Julia Volodymyrna to lose her authority in the Western districts; and the other was blocking Parliament's rostrum so that, God forbid, no laws could pass. This cooperation has worked. The elections took place, and there was active preparation for them. You know that one was hung on the hook of Puchach, the other was hung on the hook of the Zvaric who showed up against the head of the Supreme Administrative Court. Lucenka was then removed, which prevented counterfeiting. Then Moskal was recalled from Crimea. And then they passed a bad law that they voted for, by the way, those who beat themselves in the chest today and tell us that they are great patriots. So this is the result of a completely uncoordinated activity of people who seem to think about the future of Ukraine and actually have led to the arrival of these forces that are here today. I would like to point out that the performance “Buy Ukrainians”, which has been playing here for a long time, has shown us that so many have looked into the eyes and waited for positions. Got it? Today, we received a pitch, an extra throw, that we would have had to get used to for a long time. But we waited for them to “buy Ukrainians. ” Well, the particle's gone. You know, there are those leaders, the new so-called leaders of the nation, who were yelling about the unconstitutionality of this government, this coalition -- and today they're sitting there waiting for office. I think they're going to get it, but the nation, people, voters have to make their own conclusions about how they're acting, what they're saying and what they're actually doing. I think that whoever hasn't come and gone lately has also been waiting a long time for one of these leaders. Well, you didn't. I would like to say that this coalition is already receiving a certain abbreviation in the people today, and it is read as follows: this is a "communo-Lithuania-Oligarchic anti-constitutional coalition" – KLOAC is reduced. Now, this KLOAK has got very clever people who, through political forces, have infiltrated parliament and sold themselves, sold for free, I think, but I think they'll get a proper estimate as well. I also point out that this haste with the creation of coalition and government in the nation has also been evaluated: what is being done quickly is being born blindly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u67	Hanna Herman, faction of the Party of the Regions, please. Next is Kinakh Anatoly Kirilovich
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u68	You know, dear friends, when I'm listening from this rostrum, when the patriots are wearing shirts for Ukraine, I want to ask them, what have you done for Ukraine? You've turned Ukraine into a ruin. What have you done for the Ukrainians? You've made Ukrainians beggars. What have you done for the Ukrainian language? You've created your own companies to raise money from the budget for the backlog of Russian movies in Ukrainian, the duplicate that nobody reads, but you make huge money on. What did you do for Shevchenk? You even destroyed his grave because the President was there for days, there's a complete ruin, and you're talking about Shevchenk in the context of money. You've got premiums, you see. Chewchenks are too small. You forgot that in order to buy Shevchenk out of the fort, the Russian elite gathered 2.5 thousand carbs, you're not enough. [[Applause]] What have you done for all of us? I want to address you false prophets, for Shevchenko was a great prophet, and you are false prophets, saying to Frank: “You love, brother, Russia, as bread a piece of fat, and I will wake her up so that she will not sleep.” Today, the time of the greatest turmoil in Ukrainian modern history ends. Today, those leaders are going back into history as they destroyed our independent. Independence, in particular, is economic. Today, pragmatists, professionals, and deserving people come to power to bring Ukraine out flourishing. in the prosperous nations of the world, from which the time of change and reform awaited the whole world and the whole of Ukraine. And I wish this new government success. Hail the President of Ukraine! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u69	Anatoly Kirilovich Kinakh, faction of the Party of Regions, please have the right to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u70	Honourable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished national MPs, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is considering one of the most important issues: the creation of a higher executive body of the state, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And, more than ever, this day in this room must be a harsh, perhaps disagreeable truth. And the truth is that Ukraine ended 2009 with the worst socio-economic indicators in Europe and virtually SND. The fall in gross domestic product -- minus 15 percent, industrial production -- minus 22. Ukraine is the only state in Europe that started 2010 without a state budget and without an anti-crisis programme. That is why I am addressing not only our Hall but also the entire Ukrainian society: the establishment of a coalition in Parliament, the approval of an effective highly professional Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine -- not a political conjuncture, it is the urgent need of the Ukrainian State in the people to engage in an immediate set of systematic anti-crisis measures for the development of the State and the improvement of the lives of our people. The call for patriotism, the protection of national interests, is very common in this room. What is the basis of patriotism? You really don't care that Ukraine today has the lowest average monthly wage in Europe, the very high rate of population reduction. Look at the statistics on HIV-AIDS, oncology and these issues have not only crossed the boundaries of the systemic crisis, they're already crossing the national security line and threatening our statehood. What is happening to Ukraine’s external obligations? The 12 billion dollars in conditions that conflict with Ukraine’s national interests were clearly eaten away in offshore campaigns. What's going on in the energy complex? The highest price in Europe for natural gas on the border of Ukraine is Russia. What is happening to local budgets? When harshly violating not only the principles of efficiency and addressability. And all the possible laws in Ukraine, including the State Budget Act 2009 and the Budget Code, the government of Timoshenko has taken, practically, stolen, by directing 8 billion dollars into Ukraine's local budgets and creating a very sharp socio-economic situation that threatens the viability of virtually all regions. It is therefore time to unite with all the pragmatic forces, to confirm Prime Minister Azarov Mikola Janović of Ukraine and to enable the state to “gather stones” rather than to deepen the opposition and that is the basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u71	People's deputy Corge is handing over the right to speak to Sergei Sobolev. The last speaker.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, I think what's happening as an action in this session room is quite obvious. The illegal coalition, the illegal dissolution of the legal coalition, the illegally signed law, I remind you, is one of the first laws of the President that he signs, well aware that there is a decision of the Constitutional Court, and well aware that this is a direct violation of the Constitution. What's next? And then there's the de-jaw! Mikola Janovich, have you forgotten everything? You forgot the crazy '90s when you were in the highest positions in the government, when you gave people a pension with grain and kalos. Did you forget that? Did you forget that after six months of retirement, there was no pension? Have you forgotten that it was because of your management that teachers and doctors did not receive their legal income? You are not ashamed to go back to this rostrum and “cover the first envelope” and for the second year read what is written in the “first envelope”“. Another month, two more, and then? Pensions and salaries that have been paid daily for these two years must be repaid. And then we have to pay for the gas, as was the case with you, the Black Sea fleet, when for $2 billion in debt to the Black Sea fleet, we had to pay 20 years in advance. Did you forget that, too? Mikola Janovich, come on! We have to open the second envelope for you and start reorganizing! Someone here was talking about government corruption. But look at the declarations of government officials who want to embrace their posts: “Maibachi”, “The Toyotas” and continue? And these people are going to talk about some kind of corruption? And finally, I don't think we're going to make it to the third envelope. Because the third envelope already needs to be written to you, the wish of the predecessors. But in the third envelope, there's nothing to write. Because if you rule as you've ruled all previous years, a people without pensions, no wages, no lights on very quickly, where were the pre-election promises, and where were the realities. And it's the key. Here someone was complaining that billions and billions of people are sitting in offshore areas. So when the Party of Regions finally supports this half of the hall and votes in favour of denunciation of the Cyprus Accord, which you have never voted for, because you care for your wealth, not the wealth of the state budget and the people. That's why I think this government is already destined not to be recognized by the Ukrainian people or by the international community. It's a government.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u73	Finish up, please. Ladies and gentlemen, the speeches are over. To sum up the matter, I appeal to the distinguished national MPs with one request. To talk about how to organize life in the country, not how to cover up the Constitution, to continue to tear down the country, and to steal it. [[Applause]] Let's work properly and set up a dialogue at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Honourable People's Deputies, the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine “On the appointment of Azarov Mikoli Janović as Prime Minister of Ukraine”. [[Registration number 6176]] Please vote. [[12:11:31]] For 242 Decision taken. [[Applause]] I beg of you, fellow officers of honor. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! Please sit down. Dear colleagues! Let us thank the President of Ukraine for his participation in our work. And then we'll keep working on the right plan. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! Please sit down. We need to make the following decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, we are about to introduce the draft Decree. Attention, please. - Project Regulation Pro. Draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (Registration No. 6178) on the release of Timoshenko Yulia Volodymirovich. Let's go. Let's go. Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrina of the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine. Registration number. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please cancel the vote. For reasons of interest, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u74	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. I have an offer. At the same time as the decision to release Prime Minister Timoshenko from office in one package to vote on the decision of the Supreme Council to resign from office of the Supreme Council of Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin. I'm motivated by why. Prime Minister Timoshenko was expelled from the democratic coalition. You, too, have been promoted to the post of Head of the Supreme Council by a democratic coalition. What moral right do you have by breaking down the democratic coalition and continuing to be the head of the Supreme Council?Oh, my God! Let the Communion-Oligarchic Coalition that you've joined choose you head. If you have a conscience, Vladimir Mikhailovich, you must do just that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u75	Dear National Deputies! This offer is bribing with its novelty. I'll remind you that for the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the coalition gave less than 190 votes, less than 190 votes -- that's the first. And secondly, my dear colleague, you have the ability to make appropriate proposals. And the third. You could suggest this to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, when you had a democratic coalition, it was written: “In the event of the end of the democratic coalition, the Prime Minister of Ukraine is in charge.” I had to follow this rule and then teach me. You have no reason to teach me. Don't be a beast. Don't be a beast. Ladies and gentlemen, I am putting to the vote the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrovna from the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine. [[Registration number 6178]] Please vote. [[12:15:23]] For 237 Decision taken. Next question. I put to the vote a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the termination of the powers of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[Registration number 6179]] Please vote. [[12:15:57]] For 238. Decision taken. As the prime minister of Ukraine prepares his proposals for the formation of a new cabinet of Ukrainian Ministers, we are now invited to consider the issue of discharge from the post of Head of the Ukrainian Security Service. And in the event of a positive decision, consider the next question of the appointment of the head of the Ukrainian Security Service. Anatoly Stepanovich, I'd like to ask you to do so. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u76	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Our committee today reviewed the application made by the President of Ukraine for discharge from office of the Head of the Security Service, Valentin Nastavajchenka, and for the appointment of the Head of the Security Service, Valerija Horoshkovsky. Ten members of the committee took part in the committee. Decision: To reject Valerius Horoshkowski’s candidacy. Four members of the committee were voted for the appointment. I voted against it, and I'll explain why. I don't think there can be a person at the head of a law enforcement agency, even if it has great management skills, a person who is a big businessman who owns a super powerful media resource. It's an obvious conflict of interest, and it's not the kind of person who should be in charge of law enforcement, and it's the service. There must be a person who has a vision of a development perspective who is professionally aware of this area and who will not create a conflict of ethical standards, corporate standards that should be respected in this special service. That's why the committee's proposal is to reject this candidature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u77	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I am now putting to the vote a proposal in the form of a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (registration number 6173) on the release of Valentin Alexandrovich Nastavajka from his post as Head. [[B in m in s a l in]] Excuse me. Once again, honourable colleagues, I put to the vote the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine “On the release of the incumbent Valentina Alexandrovich from office of head of the Ukrainian Security Service”. [[Registration number 6173]] And I apologize for the mistake I've made. Please vote. [[12:19:02]] For 230 Decision taken. Now, I am putting to the vote the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine “On the appointment of Horoshkovsky Valeri Ivanovich as Head of the Ukrainian Security Service” (registration number 6172). Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] You should have said you had a question. [[12:19:35]] For 238. Copy that. [[Applause]] Let us welcome Valery Ivanovich for this extremely responsible position. Honorable National MPs. Ladies and gentlemen, we now move on, and the word is given by the Prime Minister of Ukraine,
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u78	One minute, now with the procedure, please excuse me. Sas Sergey, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u79	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, I ask you to ask for the requirements of part three of article 78 of the Constitution, which states that the requirements for non-compliance of the parliamentary mandate with other activities are established by law. And I would like to draw attention to part three of article 7 of the Cabinet of Ministers Act, where it is clearly noted, I will quote: “In the event of a submission to the Supreme Council of Ukraine concerning the appointment to the Cabinet of a person who is a national deputy, a personal statement by the National Deputy on the termination of powers is added to the submission, and the question of the early termination of powers is considered at the same meeting when he is elected to the Cabinet.” And you don't have to refer to 20 days in this case. Follow the Constitution and the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u80	Thank you. Dear national deputies, dear colleague, when I spoke of 20 days, I spoke of national MPs who have moved into executive structures and are not members of the Cabinet of Ministers. In accordance with the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers Act in the case of the appointment of members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, they make their terms of reference at the same meeting. And before taking office, they make this statement: “In the event of my appointment to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, I undertake to exercise my authority.” These statements are. After the Supreme Council of Ukraine has decided on the decision, we will put the matter to a vote in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So everything you've talked about is being kept here completely. Dear National Deputies! The question of appointment of members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is addressed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in accordance with part eight of article 83, paragraph 12 of the first part of article 85, part four of article 114 of the Ukrainian Constitution, by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, in accordance with the proposals made by the coalition. Prime Minister of Ukraine Azarov Mikola Janović made appropriate proposals. And let me do that in line with the point. in accordance with Article 206 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, propose such a procedure. To give the floor to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mikola Janović Azarov, to present a corresponding submission to the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the composition of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Is there no objection? Please, Mikola Janović Azarov, Prime Minister of Ukraine, is invited to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u81	Honorary National Deputies, in accordance with paragraph 13 of Part One of Article 85, Part Four of Article 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine, Article 44 of the Law of Ukraine "On the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine" are submitted for the appointment of members of the Cabinet of the Ministers of Ukraine: Klavy Andrija Petrovich to the post of First Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine; Kolenik Boris Viktorovich to the post of Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine; Seminomist Vladimir Petrovich to the post of Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine; Soviet Vladimir Leonidovich to the post of Vice-Prime Minister of the Ukraine; Violski Vladimir to the post of Vice-Prime Minister of the Republic of Ukraine; Violicious Governor to the Vice-President of the Democratic Republic of the Republic of Ukraine; Ukraine to the [[th m in s a l i]]
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u82	Sit down, Mikola Janovich. Ladies and gentlemen, your opinion is on the proposal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision “On the Composition of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine”. [[Registration number 6177]] I'm betting on a draft ruling. Please vote. [[12:26:45]] For 240 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! Please remain seated. The next question is the creation of powers, for members of the Cabinet of Ministers are unable to enter into their duties without being authorized. Dear colleagues! Not yet. Two more questions need to be put to the vote — the appointment of a foreign minister and the appointment of a defence minister. [[B in m in s a l in]] So I ask you to calm down and stay in the workplace. Dear colleagues! A technical malfunction came out and we voted and we made decisions they were on the general list, called: Ježel and Grishenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u83	You didn't call.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u84	What was it not called?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u85	My application does not include either Jehel or Greschenko, who must now vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u86	Better vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u87	Let's vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u88	Dear colleagues! Please step back, we will now vote on two candidates. And please stop holding the meeting. I'm addressing the people's deputies. Dear colleagues! I am voting for the appointment of Gristenk Kostunica Ivanovich as Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine and Ježel Mikhail Bronislavovich as Minister of Defence of Ukraine. It's an offer. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies, they are, they just haven't read them. I'll be right there. With regard to Dustenko, we voted for the termination of the Cabinet of Ministers, and there is the name Poroshenko. Dear National Deputies! I am voting for the appointment of Gristenk Kostunica Ivanovich as Minister of Foreign Affairs and Ježel Mikhail Bronislavovich as Minister of Defence of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:30:11]] For 239. Decision taken. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! Dear National Deputies! Ladies and gentlemen, here are two suggestions: the first is from the creation of powers now; and the second is that if we were to make a decision now in view of the fact that the new composition of the Cabinet of Ministers, the new realities, we would not be able to hold this morning's meeting and the evening session. From. Because you understand very well that extremely hot emotions need to be discussed. So there are two suggestions. First. I'm going to put a motion to vote on the change in our calendar plan, and when we consider the formation of parliamentary powers by persons who have joined the Cabinet of Ministers, we should not hold a morning meeting and a evening meeting. No objections? I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. We'll be holding meetings tomorrow. Let's get out of here. [[12:31:55]] For 233 Decisions were made. Now to make an oath to the newly formed Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, I invite Mikola. [[B in m in s a l in]] I beg of you!... Well, that's a good point. Come on. Now that's the way it is, dear colleagues. May I have your attention, please? We're going to vote for the power of attorney, then we're going to vote for the oath. I'll bet you a vote, please! On the composition of the National Deputy of Ukraine by the Ukrainian National Deputies: Klavov Andri Petrovich, Kolesnikov Boris Viktorovich, Sovkovic Vladimir Leonidovich, Slata Viktor Andriyovich, Tikhov Viktor Mikolaajovich, Boyko Yuri Anatoliyovich, Kolesnik Dmitry Valeriyovich, Kulinaka Mikhailo Andriyovich. He's not a deputy, is he? No, it's not. Kulinaka is a minus. Lavrinovića Aleksandra Volodimirovica, Popova Alexandra Pavlovich, Jury of Mikoli Volodimirovica, Safiulina Ravil Safovich, Tobacco of Dmitr Volodimirovic, Tolstouchova Anatolia Volodimirovica, Yacubi Vladimir Grigorovica. [[B in m in s a l in]] And Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich. And Prime Minister of Ukraine Azarov Mikola Janović. Didn't I forget anyone? [[B in m in s a l in]] Who am I? [[B in m in s a l in]] And the President's Secretariat, respected colleagues, according to the order. I'll bet. Because it takes either the applications to write or the committee's decision to make, you know that. I'd love to. Ladies and gentlemen, I am putting to the vote for the formation of parliamentary powers as members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which we have just appointed, including the Prime Minister of Ukraine, who are the national deputies of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:34:41]] For 330. Decision taken. Honourable National MPs, morning meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Cancel. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, the newly formed Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is invited to the rostrum by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mikola Janović Azarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u89	Recognizing the high responsibility of the members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, I solemnly swear allegiance to the Ukrainian people, I commit myself to upholding the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, strengthening Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence, upholding the rights and freedoms of man and citizen, caring for the well - being of the Ukrainian people, and the continued democratic development of society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-11-m0.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask that the members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine bind their oaths with signatures and surrender for proper preservation and control. Ladies and gentlemen, let us once again welcome us with the decision that has been made. [[Applause]] The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. After lunch, work on committees and factions. Tomorrow we'll continue our plenary work at 10 a.m.
